CITY OF CACHE, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-07, passed 7-8-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATION
Section
Article 1: Incorporation; Form of Government; Powers
   
1-1   Incorporation
   
1-2   Form of government
   
1-3   General powers of the municipality
   
1-4 through 1-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: City Council
   
1-20   Election and terms of Council members and officers
   
1-21   Powers of the City Council
   
1-22   Municipal policy and business
   
1-23   City Council meetings
   
1-24   Removal of Council member; vacancies
   
1-25   Supervisory designation of Council member; administrative positions
   
1-26 through 1-39 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Officers, Employees, Boards and Commissions
   
1-40   Mayor; Acting Mayor
   
1-41   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
1-42   Office Manager
   
1-43   Police Department; Chief; personal property; mutual aid
   
1-44   Assistant Chief of Police
   
1-45   Municipal Judge; alternate and acting judges
   
1-46   City Attorney
   
1-47   Fire Chief
   
1-48   Assistant Fire Chief; other officers
   
1-49   Utility Superintendent
   
1-50   Municipal Building Inspector
   
1-51   Electrical Inspector
   
1-52   Plumbing Inspector
   
1-53   Animal Control Officer
   
1-54   Emergency Management Director
   
1-55   Emergency Management Department
   
1-56   Emergency Management Advisory Committee
   
1-57   Municipal and Regional Planning Commission; Local Capital Improvements
Planning Committee
   
1-58   Zoning Board of Adjustment; Floodplain Variance Appeals Board
   
1-59   Fair Housing Board
   
1-60   Municipal Board of Health; Health Official
   
1-61 through 1-79 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Financial and Business Procedures
   
1-80   Purchasing and sales procedures
   
1-81   Competitive bidding; purchasing agent
   
1-82   Insurance
   
1-83   Capital Improvements Fund created
   
1-84   Public records search fees
   
1-85 through 1-99 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Sales Tax
   
1-100   Citation
   
1-101   Definitions
   
1-102   Tax Collector defined
   
1-103   Classification of taxpayers
   
1-104   Subsisting state permits
   
1-105   Effective date
   
1-106   Purpose of revenues
   
1-107   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
1-108   Exemptions
   
1-109   Other exempt transfers
   
1-110   Tax due when; returns; records
   
1-111   Payment of tax; brackets
   
1-112   Tax constitutes debt
   
1-113   Vendor’s duty to collect tax
   
1-114   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
1-115   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
1-116   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
1-117   Erroneous payment; claim for refund
   
1-118   Fraudulent returns
   
1-119   Records confidential
   
1-120   Amendments
   
1-121   Provisions cumulative and severable
   
1-122 through 1-139 Reserved for future use
Article 6: Use Tax
   
1-140   Excise tax on storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property levied
   
1-141   Exemptions
   
1-142   Time due; returns; payment
   
1-143   Tax constitutes debt
   
1-144   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
1-145   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within state or both within and without state; permits
   
1-146   Revoking permits
   
1-147   Deductions allowed vendors or retailers of other states
   
1-148   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
1-149   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
1-150   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
1-151   Fraudulent returns; penalty
   
1-152   Records confidential
   
1-153   Provisions cumulative and separable
   
1-154   Definitions
   
1-155   Classification of taxpayers
   
1-156   Subsisting state permits
   
1-157   Purpose of revenues
   
1-158 through 1-169 Reserved for future use
Article 7: Firemen’s Pensions
   
1-170   Participation in State Firemen’s Relief and Pension Fund
   
1-171 through 1-189 Reserved for future use
Article 8. Social Security
   
1-190   Extension of benefits
   
1-191   Execution of agreements
   
1-192   Withholdings from salaries
   
1-193   Contributions by city
   
1-194   Records and reports
   
1-195   Excluded officers and employees
   
1-196 through 1-209 Reserved for fixture use
Article 9: Telephone Exchange Fee
   
1-210   Inspection fee
   
1-211   Fee in lieu of taxes
   
1-212   Failure to pay inspection fee
   
1-213 through 1-229 Reserved for future use
Article 10: Gross Receipts Tax
   
1-230   Power to levy and assess tax; tax in lieu of other taxes
   
1-231   Application of tax
   
1-232   Tax levied until repealed; payable quarterly; disposition
   
1-233   Penalties; failure to pay tax
   
1-234   Lien for tax
   
1-235   Gas sales tax
   
1-236 through 1-249   Reserved for future use
Article 11: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
1-250   Officers to give bonds
   
1-251   Compensation; change of salaries
   
1-252   Succession in government
   
1-253   Nepotism; compatibility of offices
   
1-254   Ordinances: general provisions
   
1-255   Ordinances: adoption by reference
   
1-256   Ordinances: compilation
   
1-257   Amendments or additions to the code of ordinances
ARTICLE 1: INCORPORATION; FORM OF GOVERNMENT; POWERS
§ 1-1 INCORPORATION.
   The City of Cache, Oklahoma, within the corporate limits as now established
or as hereafter may be established, shall continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate in perpetuity under the name of the “City of Cache,
Oklahoma”. It shall succeed to and possess all the property, rights,
privileges, franchises, powers and immunities now belonging to the corporation
known as the City of Cache, Oklahoma, and shall be liable for all debts and
other obligations for which the corporation is now legally bound.
§ 1-2 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The municipal government provided for the city shall be the “Aldermanic”
form of government. All powers of the municipality shall be exercised in the
manner prescribed by this code of ordinances, future ordinances or state law;
provided, that, this code and all future ordinances are not repugnant to the
State Constitution and laws.
(Ord. 2019-19-01, passed 3-8-2019)
§ 1-3 GENERAL POWERS OF THE MUNICIPALITY.
   1.   The city shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges,
franchises and immunities specifically granted to municipalities, or not
prohibited by the State Constitution and laws, and all the implied power
necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted.
   2.   The city shall have the power to adopt a corporate seal and alter the
same, to sue and be sued, to make contracts and to grant, extend and renew
franchises. It shall have the power, in accordance with the State Constitution
and laws, to accept and administer federal and state grants-in-aid. It shall
have the power to ordain and enforce local legislation, consistent with the
State Constitution and laws, for the proper organization and functioning of
municipal government, for the preservation and enforcement of good government
and order, for the protection of health, life, peace, safety, morals and
property, for the prevention, summary abatement and removal of nuisances, and
otherwise for the promotion of the common welfare.
   3.   The enumeration of particular powers of this code of ordinances shall
not be deemed to be exclusive or limiting. In addition to the powers enumerated
herein or implied hereby, the city shall have all the powers which, under the
State Constitution and laws, it would be competent for this code of ordinances
specifically to enumerate.
§§ 1-4 THROUGH 1-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: CITY COUNCIL
§ 1-20 ELECTION AND TERMS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS AND OFFICERS.
   1.   The City Council shall consist, and be composed of, five Council
members. Each Council member shall be nominated and elected according to
current state law. Council members shall be actual residents and registered
voters of the city and must reside in their respective wards.
   2.   The resolution of the City Council calling for a general or special
election to fill the office of Council member shall state the number of four-
year terms and the number unexpired terms, if any, to be filled. The resolution
shall direct that the ballot shall state the offices of Council member to be
filled for each term.
   3.   All Council members shall be elected for terms of four years, beginning
at 12:00 p.m. noon on the second Monday following the municipal general
election.
   4.   Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-302, the city declares that it shall not be
governed by the State Open Meeting Act (being 25 O.S. §§ 301 through 314) as a
means of electing its officers and deciding initiative and referendum
questions.
   5.   The city shall continue to elect its officers and decide initiative and
referendum questions through elections conducted by the County Election Board,
pursuant to 11 O.S. §§ 16-101 et seq.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 1-21 POWERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code of ordinances, all powers of the
municipality, including the determination of matters of policy, shall be vested
in the City Council; said City Council shall have, and may utilize, all of the
powers granted to the municipality and said City Council by the State
Constitution and laws.
§ 1-22 MUNICIPAL POLICY AND BUSINESS.
   1.   The City Council shall conduct all business of the municipality, set
policy for the efficient administration of municipal government,
administratively supervise all activities or municipal employees, and carry out
their responsibilities, powers and duties as officers and as a corporate and
politic body, within the limits prescribed by the State Constitution and laws
and the code of ordinances of the city.
   2.   It shall be the policy of the municipal government that no person shall
be discriminated against on the grounds of race, creed, color, sex, religion,
handicap, national origin or age in employment or other activities sponsored
directly or indirectly by the city.
   3.   Every member of the City Council who shall be present when the
opportunity or need arises to vote upon a question, shall vote thereon, unless
said member is directly or indirectly interested in the question, in which
event said interest shall be fully disclosed to the City Council and it shall
be made a matter of record.
§ 1-23 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   1.   Municipal business shall be conducted at regularly scheduled open and
public meetings held in the City Hall (or another agreed upon place which is
open to the public, including videoconferencing exceptions described in 25 O.S.
§ 307.1), on the second Tuesday of each month, or the next following day which
is not a holiday, in the event of conflict with a holiday, beginning at 6:30
p.m.
   2.   Special or emergency City Council meetings may be called by the Mayor,
or by a majority of the Council members, upon the serving of notice, as
required by current state law.
   3.   The City Council shall establish, by motion or resolution, an order of
business for the conduct of its meetings.
   4.   City Council meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s
Rules of Order.
   5.   Citizens living or owning property within the corporate city limits of
Cache wishing to address the City Council shall be limited to three minutes
each unless the City Council, by a majority vote, votes to extend the time a
citizen may address the City Council.
   6.   Citizens outside city limits who wish to address Cache City Council
must submit a completed request form to speak to Council by the Wednesday prior
to the scheduled meeting. Request forms may be picked up at City Hall.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 9-11-2023; Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 1-24 REMOVAL OF COUNCIL MEMBER; VACANCIES.
   1.   Any Council member, including the Mayor, may be removed from office for
any cause specified by, and using the methods prescribed and specified by,
applicable state law for the removal of officers, including 22 O.S. §§ 1181 et
seq., as amended.
   2.   Whenever a member of the City Council is absent from more than one-half
of all regular and special meetings of said City Council held within any period
of four consecutive months, said person shall thereupon automatically cease to
hold office, unless the remaining members of the City Council vote to retain
said person on said City Council.
   3.   Vacancies in the membership of the City Council shall be filled
according to applicable provisions of state law.
§ 1-25 SUPERVISORY DESIGNATION OF COUNCIL MEMBER; ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS.
   1.   The City Council may give its members supervisory control over
designated personnel, departments and/or activities of the municipality.
   2.   Each Council member may be given an appropriate title and each Council
member shall be, in effect, a committee of one of the City Council, and be
subordinate to said City Council.
§§ 1-26 THROUGH 1-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 1-40 MAYOR; ACTING MAYOR.
   1.   The City Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor. The Mayor
shall be elected in each odd-numbered year, at the first City Council meeting
held after the Council member’s terms begin, or as soon thereafter as
practicable.
   2.   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the City Council shall
elect another Mayor from among its members to serve for the duration of the
unexpired term.
   3.   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council and may
call special meetings thereof.
   4.   The Mayor shall certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the City Council. The Mayor shall have all the powers,
rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of a Council member, and, as an
elected representative of the citizens of a ward, may vote on all matters that
come before the City Council.
   5.   The Mayor shall be recognized as the head of the municipal government
for all ceremonial purposes.
   6.   In order to ensure continued service and leadership during the absence,
disability or suspension of the Mayor, the City Council shall elect an Acting
Mayor from among its members.
   7.   The Mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed by state law or
ordinance.
§ 1-41 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   1.   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed by the City Council and as
an officer of the city shall attend all meetings of the City Council and keep a
journal of the proceedings of said City Council.
   2.   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall have custody of all documents, records
and archives of the municipality, as well as be custodian of the municipal
seal.
   3.   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall attest and affix said seal to documents
as required by law or ordinance, and shall see that all ordinances passed are
kept on file, in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   4.   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall so keep all accounts as to show where
and from what sources all monies paid have been derived, and to whom and when
such monies or any part thereof have been paid. All books, accounts and
vouchers shall at all times be subject to the examination of the City Council.
   5.   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a general accounting system for
the municipal government.
   6.   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall have such further powers and duties as
may be prescribed by this code of ordinances, by applicable state law or by the
City Council.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 1-42 OFFICE MANAGER.
   1.   The position of Office Manager is hereby created. Said position shall
be filled by the person serving as City Clerk-Treasurer, unless the City
Council shall otherwise prescribe. The Office Manager shall perform such
additional office operations and maintenance duties as the City Council may
prescribe. All benefits shall be provided in accordance with municipal policy.
   2.   The City Council shall determine the salary of the Office Manager which
shall be based on the Office Manager’s education and experience and the duties
to be performed.
§ 1-43 POLICE DEPARTMENT; CHIEF; PERSONAL PROPERTY; MUTUAL AID.
   1.   There is hereby created a Police Department for the city, the head of
which shall be the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by
the City Council, with a term of office of two years, running concurrent with
City Council elections, or until such services are terminated by death,
resignation, removal by the City Council or other legal manner. Law enforcement
assistance may also be provided, as a municipal service, on a contractual
basis.
   2.   One or more police officers may be appointed by the Chief of Police,
subject to confirmation by the City Council; said police officers may be
removed by the City Council, for cause, at a regular meeting, by a majority
vote of all of said City Council members. The Chief of Police may suspend any
police officer with pay, until the matter is brought before the City Council.
   3.   The Chief of Police and all police officers shall possess the powers,
and be subject to the liabilities possessed and conferred by law upon Sheriffs,
in executing the orders of the City Council, or enforcing the code of
ordinances of the city. All police officers shall be considered officers of the
city.
   4.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and/or all police officers
to bring to justice all violators of municipal ordinances and federal and state
laws, and to turn such violators over to the proper authorities. The Chief of
Police shall serve all warrants, writs, executions and other process, properly
directed and delivered.
   5.   The Chief of Police and each police officer shall be paid such
compensation as the City Council may prescribe by motion or resolution.
   6.   All personal property coming into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found, stolen or taken off the person, or out of the possession
of, any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be
delivered into the charge of the Chief of Police, who shall make a permanent,
written record of said property, including the date and circumstances of the
receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was taken (or the place
where it was found), the subsequent disposal thereof, the date of sale, name
and address of the purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
   7.   Any personal property (other than animals) which remains unclaimed and
in the possession of the Chief of Police, or the ownership of which is not
satisfactorily established for a period of 30 days, shall be sold and the
proceeds of the sale paid over to the City Clerk, who shall issue a receipt
therefor and deposit the same to the credit of the General Fund of the
municipality, except for such personal property as in the opinion of the Mayor
can be more advantageously used by some department or office of the municipal
government. Ten days before a sale of such unclaimed property, the Chief of
Police shall have posted in a conspicuous place in the City Hall, notice of the
time, place and manner of such sale, including the general description of the
property to be sold. If, in the opinion of the Mayor, all or any of the
personal property may be more advantageously used in any municipal department
or office, the Mayor shall so instruct the Chief of Police in writing and said
Police Chief shall thereupon deliver the designated property to the department
or office of municipal government and make a permanent record of its
disposition.
   8.   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within 30 days, shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to said finder, and a
record of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return of
the property within such additional ten days, then the Chief of Police shall
sell the property as if it had been found by a public official or employee, or,
on the instruction of the Mayor, deliver it to some municipal department for
its use.
   9.   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes
and recovers possession of the same from the purchaser, the amount paid
therefor shall be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being
submitted and approved by the City Council.
   10.   The personal property of a deceased person shall be delivered only to
the next of kin of such person or to the legally-appointed representative of
the estate. If the personal property is claimed by the legally-appointed
representative of the estate of the deceased, a certified copy of the order of
the County Court appointing such person shall be deemed sufficient authority to
support the claim. If the personal property is claimed by the next of kin, the
claimant shall furnish an affidavit supporting entitlement to possession of
said property; the affidavit shall be deemed sufficient authority to support
the claim. If personal property of a deceased person remains unclaimed for a
period of 90 days, it shall be disposed of in the appropriate manner provided
in this section.
   11.   The Chief of Police, or a designated representative, is authorized to
direct that any regularly-employed police officers of the city, may provide law
enforcement assistance to another municipality, county government or the State
Highway Patrol in an emergency; provided, that, a written request from an
official representative of the other municipality has been received and
approved by the city.
   12.   While serving in said capacity above, the city shall provide salaries,
insurance and other regular benefits to these officers.
   13.   The Mayor or Police Chief of the city is also authorized to request
law enforcement assistance from other municipalities, in emergency situations.
In such cases, the assisting police officers of the other municipalities shall
have all of the same powers and duties as fully as if employed by the city;
however, salaries, insurance and other benefits shall not be paid by the city.
   14.   In all events, the police officers of the city shall return to their
regular duties when directed to do so by the City Police Chief, or the Police
Chief (or authorized representative) of the requesting municipality, whichever
direction occurs first.
   15.   When the City Police Chief shall direct, the assisting police officers
of the other municipalities shall return to their own regularly scheduled
duties in their own municipalities, and those assisting police officers shall
cease to have the powers and duties of police officers regularly employed by
the city.
   16.   The Chief of Police and each police officer shall perform all other
duties prescribed by law or ordinance.
§ 1-44 ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE.
   1.   The position of Assistant Chief of Police for the city is hereby
created. The term of office for the Assistant Chief of Police shall coincide
with the term of office of the Chief of Police, or until the services of the
Assistant Chief of Police are terminated by death, resignation, removal by the
City Council or removal from office through any other legal means.
   2.   The Chief of Police shall recommend who shall be appointed Assistant
Chief of Police subject to the approval, by majority vote, of a quorum of the
City Council.
   3.   The Assistant Chief of Police shall be subject to all of those
provision set forth in
§ 1-43 thereof, and in the absence of the Chief of Police, shall act in the
stead of the Chief of Police; provided, the Assistant Chief of Police shall at
all times be answerable to the Chief of Police and City Council, and shall in
all respects comply with the ordinances of the city, and general laws of the
state.
§ 1-45 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; ALTERNATE AND ACTING JUDGES.
   1.   There shall be one Judge of the Municipal Court, who shall be appointed
by the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council; the Mayor may be designated
as Judge upon approval of said City Council. (See
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.)
   2.   The Municipal Judge shall be at least 25 years of age, a resident of
the city (unless a licensed attorney), have a high school education (or the
equivalent) and be of good moral character. A Judge who is a licensed attorney
may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but shall not accept
employment inconsistent with duties as a Municipal Judge or arising out of
facts which give rise to, or are connected with, cases within the jurisdiction
of the Court pending therein, or which might become the subject of proceedings
therein.
   3.   The official term of the Municipal Judge shall be until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
   4.   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall receive a salary as prescribed
by the City Council, paid in the same manner as the salaries of other municipal
employees.
   5.   The Municipal Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the State
Constitution and laws and this code of ordinances, for the proper conduct of
the business of the Municipal Court.
   6.   There may be appointed an Alternate Judge of the Municipal Court,
possessed of the same qualifications as the Municipal Judge, as set out in
subsection 2. above.
      a.   Said appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same
manner as the Municipal Judge. The Acting Judge shall sit in the Municipal
Court in any case where the Municipal Judge is absent from the Court, unable to
act as Municipal Judge in a case.
      b.   If, at any time, there is not a Municipal Judge or Alternate Judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as Municipal Judge, the City
Council may appoint some person possessing the qualifications required by this
section for the Municipal Judge, who shall preside as Acting Judge over the
Municipal Court in the disposition of pending matters, until such time as a
Municipal Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
   7.   An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall be paid, as prescribed by
the City Council, for each day devoted to the performance of all duties, except
that, for any month, the total payments so calculated shall not exceed the
salary of the Municipal Judge. An Alternate or Acting Judge who sits for an
entire month shall receive the amount specified by the City Council as the
salary of the Municipal Judge.
   8.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the City Council, for
the causes prescribed by the State Constitution and laws for removal from
public offices. Provisions of the State Administrative Procedure Act governing
individual proceedings (75 O.S. §§ 308 through 317 and any amendments or
additions thereto in effect at the time of the hearing) shall govern removal
proceedings hereunder, so far as they can be made applicable.
   9.   A vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge shall occur if the incumbent
dies, resigns, ceases to possess the qualifications for the office, or is
removed. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge, the
Mayor shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, using the same
procedure as for an original appointment.
§ 1-46 CITY ATTORNEY.
   1.   The City Attorney may be appointed by the City Council, on a
contractual basis.
   2.   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to give legal advice on
questions submitted by the City Council, when the subject matter concerns the
duties of any municipal officials or employees, or the performance of their
duties.
   3.   The City Attorney shall draw such ordinances, resolutions, notices,
forms, leases, deeds, papers or other documents as may be required or requested
by the City Council.
   4.   The City Attorney shall be authorized to appear, prosecute and defend
all actions wherein the city is a party, and shall institute proceedings in
courts of law upon the order of the City Council.
   5.   The City Attorney shall be allowed actual and necessary traveling and
hotel expenses while outside the city and on official business for said city;
provided, that, said business has been approved and directed by the City
Council.
   6.   The City Attorney shall perform such other duties as the City Council
may require; provided, that, such duties are included within the scope of the
contractual arrangement.
§ 1-47 FIRE CHIEF.
   1.   There is hereby created the office of Chief of the Fire Department, who
shall be appointed by the City Council, with a term of office of two years,
running concurrent with City Council of Council member elections, or until all
services are terminated by death, resignation, removal by said City Council or
other legal manner. (See
Chapter 7 of this code of ordinances.)
   2.   Duties of the Fire Chief shall include:
      a.   The Fire Chief shall have supervision and control of the Fire
Department, subject to the state law, the provisions of this chapter, other
ordinances of the municipality and the City Council; the Fire Chief shall
diligently perform the duties imposed by law and ordinance;
      b.   The Fire Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition
and efficient operation of the Fire Department and the training of members, and
may assign duties to other members of said Department;
      c.   The Fire Chief shall inspect, or cause to be inspected by members of
the Department, the fire hydrants and water supply sources of the city at least
once each year;
      d.   The Fire Chief should maintain a library or file of publications on
fire prevention and fire protection;
      e.   The Fire Chief shall attend all fires and direct and have complete
charge of the officers and members of the Fire Department in the performance of
their duties;
      f.   The Fire Chief should ensure that the City Council and the
municipality’s citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the community and
on the activities of the Fire Department;
      g.   The Fire Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause and, in the case of incendiarism, shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case;
      h.   The Fire Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all
fires, inspections, apparatus, equipment, personnel and other information about
the work of the Fire Department; and
      i.   The Fire Chief shall file the appropriate fire loss reporting forms
with the office of the State Fire Marshal, as required by current state law.
§ 1-48 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF; OTHER OFFICERS.
   1.   The Assistant Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the
City Council. In the absence of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief shall
command the Fire Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects,
with the full powers and responsibilities of the Fire Chief. (See
Chapter 7 of this code of ordinances.)
   2.   The officers of the Fire Department shall be selected upon their
ability to lead the Department and their knowledge of firefighting and
firefighting equipment.
   3.   One member elected by the members of the Fire Department shall be
Secretary-Treasurer; duties shall consist of calling the roll at each meeting,
keeping the minutes of each meeting and collecting any money due said
Department by the members.
§ 1-49 UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   There is hereby created a Utility Superintendent for city. The Utility
Superintendent shall be appointed by the City Council, with a term of office of
two years, running concurrent with City Council elections, or until such
services are terminated by death, resignation, removal by the City Council or
other legal manner.
§ 1-50 MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   1.   There is hereby created the office of Municipal Building Inspector
within the administrative structure of the city. The Municipal Building
Inspector shall be appointed by the City Council; said appointment shall
continue during good behavior and satisfactory service. Removal from office
shall only be for cause, after full opportunity has been given for a hearing on
specific charges. This position may also be filled, on a contractual basis, if
necessary.
   2.   The Municipal Building Inspector shall be in good health and shall be
physically capable of performing the duties of his or her office.
   3.   The powers and duties of the Municipal Building Inspector shall be as
follows:
      a.   To enforce all provisions of the codes adopted by this code of
ordinances;
      b.   To receive and process applications required by such codes or this
code of ordinances;
      c.   To review building permit applications, other permit applications,
issue required certificates and serve as the Zoning Administration Officer for
the city. See
Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances;
      d.   To examine premises for which permits have been issued under such
codes or this code of ordinances and make necessary inspections to see that the
provisions of the codes or this code of ordinances are complied with and that
construction is done safely. See
Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances;
      e.   To investigate, when requested by the City Council, or when the
public interest so requires, matters referred to in such codes and render
written reports on the same;
      f.   To issue such notices or orders as may be necessary to enforce
compliance with the adopted codes or this code of ordinances, to remove illegal
or unsafe conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during construction or
to require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures; and
      g.   To make inspections required under the provisions of the codes
adopted by this code of ordinances, or to ensure that inspections are made by a
duly-appointed assistant.
   4.   During any temporary absence of the Municipal Building Inspector, the
City Council may designate an Acting Building Inspector; the City Clerk shall
serve as Acting Building Inspector, unless the City Council designates another
person as such, by motion.
   5.   The Municipal Building Inspector, while in the discharge of official
duty, shall have the authority to enter any building or premises for the
purpose of making any inspection or test of the construction or equipment
contained therein, or its installation.
   6.   The Municipal Building Inspector may perform electrical or plumbing
inspections and may also serve as the Electrical or Plumbing Inspector, if so
designated by the City Council.
§ 1-51 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   1.   There is hereby created the office of Electrical Inspector within the
administrative structure of the city. The Electrical Inspector shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council.
   2.   The Electrical Inspector shall have had experience as an electrician,
shall be of good moral character, shall be knowledgeable of the approved
methods of electrical construction and shall be certified by the state.
   3.   The Electrical Inspector shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by the Electrical Code adopted by this code of ordinances, and shall
also ensure that all municipal ordinances and regulations relating to
electrical safety are properly enforced. See
Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances.
§ 1-52 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   1.   There is hereby created the office of Plumbing Inspector within the
administrative structure of the city.
   2.   The Plumbing Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the City Council; the Plumbing Inspector may also hold other
positions in the municipal government.
   3.   The Plumbing Inspector shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by the Plumbing Code adopted by this code of ordinances, shall be
certified by the state and shall also ensure that all municipal ordinances and
regulations relating to water and sanitary plumbing are properly enforced. See
Chapters 4 and 16 of this code of ordinances.
§ 1-53 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   1.   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may appoint a person,
persons or other entity to serve as the Animal Control Officer(s) for the city;
said Officer(s) shall be appointed for an indefinite term, and may be removed
by said City Council.
   2.   The salary of the Animal Control Officer(s) shall be established by the
City Council, and may be either on a salary basis or a contractual fee system
related to enforcement activities.
§ 1-54 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   1.   The position of Emergency Management Director is hereby created, to be
appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council. See
Chapter 6 of this code of ordinances.
   2.   The Emergency Management Director shall be the executive head of the
Department of Emergency Management and shall be responsible for carrying out
the Emergency Management Program of the city.
   3.   The Emergency Management Director shall have the authority and
responsibility to:
      a.   Form an organization to prepare and implement a emergency management
program;
      b.   Form committees to perfect such an organization;
      c.   Appoint the Chairperson of such committees;
      d.   Cooperate with other emergency management agencies; and
      e.   Formulate plans, gather information and maintain records for the
Emergency Management Department.
   4.   The Emergency Management Director may be reimbursed for expenses
incurred in the performance of official duties; provided, that, such expenses
are at the direction of, and approved by, the City Council.
   5.   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Emergency Management Director, after authorization from the
Mayor, shall have the authority to enforce all regulations relating to
emergency management, for the purpose of protecting residents of the city.
§ 1-55 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   1.   There is hereby established a Emergency Management Department under the
executive branch of the municipal government, which shall consist of a
Emergency Management Director and a Emergency Management Advisory Committee.
See
Chapter 6 of this code of ordinances.
   2.   The purpose of said Department shall be to be prepared for, and
function in the event of, emergencies endangering the lives and property of the
people of the city, and to perform all functions necessary and incident to the
protection of the lives, health and property of the citizens of said community.
§ 1-56 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   1.   The Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall consist of the Mayor,
who shall serve as Committee Chairperson, and four members appointed by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Council. Said members shall serve at the
pleasure of the City Council.
   2.   The Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall select from its
members a Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary.
   3.   The Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall hold such meetings as
are directed by the Mayor or the City Council.
   4.   The function of the Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall be to
act in an advisory capacity to, and as needed or requested by, the Mayor, the
Emergency Management Director or the City Council.
§ 1-57 MUNICIPAL AND REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION; LOCAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
PLANNING COMMITTEE.
   1.   The Municipal Planning Commission shall serve as an advisory board for
the city, to be composed of at least five voting members. The Mayor and the
City Clerk shall serve as ex officio members of said Commission, without voting
powers. See
Chapter 15 of this code of ordinances.
   2.   Upon the initial appointment of members to the Municipal Planning
Commission, the Mayor shall designate one member to serve for a period of one
year, two members to serve for a period of two years, and two members to serve
for a period of three years. All subsequent appointments of members shall be
for a three-year term, and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   3.   The members of the Municipal Planning Commission shall be nominated for
appointment by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council, shall be residents
of the city and shall serve without salary.
   4.   Members of the Municipal Planning Commission may be removed by the City
Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malefaction in office or other cause
established by resolution of the City Council; vacancies occurring other than
through the expiration of a term shall be filled only for the unexpired term by
the City Council.
   5.   Within five days of the appointment and qualification of the members of
the Municipal Planning Commission, said Commission shall meet and elect one of
their number as Chairperson, one as Vice-Chairperson and one as Secretary; in
addition, the Municipal Planning Commission may create and fill such other
offices as it may deem necessary. The term of all such offices shall be one
year, with eligibility for re-election. Three members of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum.
   6.   There is hereby created a Regional Planning Commission as an entity of
the city. The Municipal Planning Commission for said city shall also serve as
the Regional Planning Commission, in order to avail itself of the powers of
state law relating primarily to the regulation of land subdivision within three
miles of the corporate limits of the city. The Mayor of the city and the
Chairperson of the County Board of Commissioners shall be ex officio members of
said Regional Planning Commission, to serve without voting powers.
   7.   There is hereby created a Local Capital Improvements Planning Committee
for the city in compliance with the provisions of the State Capital
Improvements Planning Act (62 O.S. §§ 901 et seq.). The Local Capital
Improvements Planning Committee shall consist of five voting members, to be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the confirmation of the City Council. All
members must be residents of the city and shall serve without salary. Terms of
the members shall be established in the same manner as for those of Municipal
Planning Commission. Unless the City Council, at its discretion, specifically
designates a separate group of persons, the Municipal Planning Commissioner
shall serve as the Local Capital Improvements Planning Committee. The Local
Capital Improvements Planning Committee has the general responsibility to
assist the City Council in planning for the future development, growth and
improvement of said city, and in preparing, adopting, implementing and amending
the local capital improvements plan and its related programs, consistent with
the goals, guidelines and other provisions of the State Capital Improvements
Planning Act, it shall also:
      a.   Prepare the city’s capital improvements plan;
      b.   Make recommendations to the City Council regarding the adoption of
the plan;
      c.   Serve in an ongoing advisory capacity to the City Council regarding
implementation of the plan, particularly in the annual update phase of the
planning process;
      d.   Conduct public hearings and solicit and encourage citizen
participation, as required by, and in accordance with, applicable provisions of
the State Capital Improvements Planning Act;
      e.   Take such other actions as may be necessary to carry out the city
capital improvements planning process, consistent with local ordinances and
policy, and state law requirements, including capacity to recommend agreements
with other area jurisdictions, in order to carry out the purposes of the
capital improvements planning process: and
      f.   Maintain a working relationship with the appropriate Regional
Planning Board of Trustees (the Association of South Central Oklahoma
Governments, ASCOG), in order to ensure that the statutory requirements for
integrating the city’s plan into the ASCOG regional capital improvements plan,
each year, are fully met, to the benefit of the city and the state.
§ 1-58 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; FLOODPLAIN VARIANCE APPEALS BOARD.
   1.   A Zoning Board of Adjustment is hereby created for the city. Said Board
shall consist of five members, appointed by the City Council. The term of the
members thereof and the filling of vacancies therein shall be as set by the
City Council. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance
with the provisions of this section or any amendment thereto. Meetings of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such times as such Board may determine. All meetings of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall be open to the public. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, show the vote of each member upon each
question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicate such fact, and shall keep
a record of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and become a public
record.
   2.   The Zoning Board of Adjustment, shall have the following powers:
      a.   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the City Clerk, Municipal
Building Inspector or other administrative official;
      b.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the zoning or
other ordinances upon which the Zoning Board of Adjustment is required to pass;
and
      c.   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases, variances from the terms
of such ordinances as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing
to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance
will result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the ordinances will
be observed and substantial justice done.
   3.   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall also serve as the Appeals Board to
hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of
floodplain management regulations. The Appeals Board shall hear and render
judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision or determination made by the Municipal Building Inspector
in the enforcement or administration of the city’s floodplain management
regulations. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals
Board may appeal such decision in any court of competent jurisdiction. The
Municipal Building Inspector shall maintain a record of all actions involving
an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), upon request. Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, the State Register of Historic Places or locally-registered as
an historic landmark, without regard to the procedures set forth in the
remainder of this section. Variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size, contiguous to, and surrounded by, lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level; provided, that, all relevant factors
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance shall increase. Upon
consideration of all factors noted above, the Appeals Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes and objectives of the city’s floodplain management program. Variances
shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge would result. Prerequisites for granting
variances shall include the following.
      a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      b.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, nuisance creation, fraud or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      c.   Any applicant for whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
      d.   Variances may be issued by the city for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided, that:
         (1)   The criteria outlined in this code of ordinances are met; and
         (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
§ 1-59 FAIR HOUSING BOARD.
   1.   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board for the city to assist in
the enforcement of all municipal fair housing regulations and ordinances. See
Chapter 5 of this code of ordinances.
   2.   The City Council shall serve as the Fair Housing Board of said
community.
§ 1-60 MUNICIPAL BOARD OF HEALTH; HEALTH OFFICIAL.
   1.   The City Council shall constitute a Municipal Board of Health and shall
be capable of performing all the functions provided by state law. See
Chapter 9 of this code of ordinances.
   2.   The Municipal Board of Health shall be operated in general cooperation
with the County Department of Health and the State Department of Health.
   3.   It shall be the general duty of the Municipal Board of Health to
examine and consider all measures necessary for the preservation of the public
health of residents of the city and to see that all ordinances and regulations
in relation thereto are observed.
   4.   The Municipal Board of Health may appoint a Local Health Official to
carry out its health programs and policies; the County Health Officer or an
authorized representative may perform the duties of a Local Health Official.
§§ 1-61 THROUGH 1-79 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS PROCEDURES
§ 1-80 PURCHASING AND SALES PROCEDURES.
   1.   The City Council shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase
authorization for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the operation of
the municipal government. Before the purchase of, or contract for, any
supplies, materials or equipment, or the sale of any surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment, ample opportunity for competitive bidding,
under such regulations and with such exceptions as said City Council may
prescribe, shall be given.
   2.   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES for the purpose of this chapter, shall mean
services performed for the city by persons not in the employ of the city and
may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with such services under express or implied contract. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES
shall include travel, freight, express, parcel post, postage, telephone,
telegraph, utilities, rents, printing and binding, repairs, alterations and
maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets, bridges and other physical
facilities of the city.
   3.   Subject to the provisions of state law and this section, surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials or equipment belonging to the city may be sold by
the City Council.
   4.   No sale shall be made under this section until the City Council has
declared the supplies, materials or equipment involved to be surplus or
obsolete.
   5.   Except as may otherwise be provided, the City Council shall advertise
any sale under this section in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
or county, or in such other manner as deemed necessary to adequately reach
prospective buyers to give them an opportunity to make bids. All bids shall be
sealed and opened in public at a designated time and place, except when the
sale is by auction. The City Council may repeatedly reject all bids and
advertise again. The City Council shall sell such supplies, materials and
equipment to the highest responsible bidder and, if necessary, shall cast lots
in case of a tie to determine to whom to sell.
   6.   The Mayor, subject to any regulations which the City Council may
prescribe, shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase authorization
for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments and
agencies of the municipal government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding
$7,500, shall require the prior approval of the City Council. The Mayor may
also transfer to or between offices, departments and agencies, or sell, surplus
or obsolete supplies, materials and equipment, subject to such regulations as
the City Council may prescribe.
§ 1-81 COMPETITIVE BIDDING; PURCHASING AGENT.
   1.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection 2. below, before the City
Council makes any purchase of, or contract for, supplies, materials, equipment
or contractual services, it shall submit to at least three persons, firms or
corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if
there are not three dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for
quotation or invitation to bid and specifications, to give them opportunity to
bid. As an alternative, said City Council may publish notice of the proposed
purchase in a newspaper of general circulation within the city or county. The
City Council shall favor a person, firm or corporation in the city when this
can be done without additional cost to the city, but they shall submit requests
for quotation to those outside the city when necessary to secure bids or to
create competitive conditions, or when they think that they can make a saving
for the city. All bids shall be sealed and opened in public at a designated
time and place. The City Council may repeatedly reject all bids and may again
submit to the same or other persons, firms or corporations, the request for
quotations or invitation to bid, or again publish notice of the proposed
purchase. The City Council shall purchase from the bidder whose bid is most
advantageous to the city, considering price, quality, date of delivery and the
like; in the event of a tie, said City Council may cast lots to determine from
whom to make a purchase, or may divide the purchase among those bidding, always
accepting the bids most advantageous to the city.
   2.   The Mayor and City Council may purchase, or authorize the purchase of,
the following without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding in
accordance with 2021, HB2862 and 2021, SB173:
      a.   Contractual construction services, the cost of which does not exceed
$25,000 in a single transaction;
      b.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which has a uniform price wherever
bought;
      c.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers (including war surplus);
      d.   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service and the
like) purchased from a public utility corporation, commission or other
government authority; or
      e.   Contractual services of a professional nature such as engineering,
legal, architectural and medical services, subject to other policies adopted by
the City Council governing such procurement.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 1-82 INSURANCE.
   1.   The City Council may insure municipal property, as authorized by state
law. Any money received as a result of destruction, damages or loss of such
insured property shall be accounted for, and used as provided by, said
statutes.
   2.   The City Council may purchase insurance to pay damages to persons
sustaining injuries or damages to property as a result of negligent operation
of motor vehicles or motorized equipment of the city.
§ 1-83 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUND CREATED.
   1.   There is hereby created and established a Capital Improvements Fund for
the city which shall not be subject to fiscal operations.
   2.   The proceeds of said Fund, together with any interest and increments
thereto, may, at the discretion of the City Council, be used for the following
purposes only:
      a.   To meet principal and interest requirements on general obligation
bonds;
      b.   When general obligation bond requirements are met, to make cash
expenditures for capital improvements or equipment for street, electric, water,
storm drainage or sewer purposes; or
      c.   Where transfers from said Fund or any part thereof to a Sinking Fund
or other appropriate municipal or trust funds are necessary to accomplish such
purposes, the City Council is authorized to make such transfer of funds.
§ 1-84 PUBLIC RECORDS SEARCH FEES.
   The following fees are established for the copying, research time and
certification of city records:
   1.   A copying fee for records having the dimensions of eight and one-half
inches by 14 inches or smaller shall be $0.10 per copied page.
   2.   A copying fee for records having the dimensions in excess of eight and
one-half inches by 14 inches shall be $0.25 per page.
   3.   There will be a fee of $0.75 per page for each copied page the
requestor wants certified.
   4.   The fee for employee time for researching requested records to be
copied and copying those records shall be $10 per hour for all time involved in
excess of a quarter (15 minutes) of an hour.
   5.   No requested records shall be released to the person requesting the
same without prior payment in cash or by certified funds for the cost of
copying and the cost of employee time in searching for and/or copying the
requested records.
   6.   In no case shall a fee search be charged when the release of records is
in the public interest, including, but not limited to, release to the news
media, scholars, authors and taxpayers seeking to determine whether those
entrusted with the affairs of the government are honestly, faithfully, and
competently performing their duties as public servants.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-9-2019)
§§ 1-85 THROUGH 1-99 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: SALES TAX
§ 1-100 CITATION.
   The sections included in this article shall constitute, shall be known and
may be cited as the “City of Cache, Oklahoma, Sales Tax Ordinance”.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State Sales Tax
Code, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
article (68 O.S. § 1352).
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-102 TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED.
   The term TAX COLLECTOR as used herein means the department of the municipal
government or the official agency of the state duly designated according to
law, or contractually authorized by law, to administer the collection of the
tax herein levied.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-103 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state statutes for purposes of the State Sales Tax
Code.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-104 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional municipal permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-105 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This article shall become and be effective, including its most current
level, on and after May 1, 1980, subject to the approval of a majority of the
registered voters of the city voting on the same, in the manner prescribed by
state statutes.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-106 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this sales tax ordinance to
provide revenues for the support of all of the functions of the municipal
government of the city.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-107 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 3.75% upon the gross proceeds or
gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the sales tax law of the
state, including, but not exclusive of the following:
   1.   Tangible personal property;
   2.   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam or any other utility
or public service except water;
   3.   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads (both steam and electric), motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
   4.   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance; and this
shall include all services and rental charges having any connection with the
transmission of any message;
   5.   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds and characters and the
service of printing or overprinting;
   6.   Service of furnishing rooms or accommodations by hotels, apartment
hotels, public rooming houses, public lodging houses, tourist camps and mobile
home or trailer parks or camps;
   7.   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels and
parking lots;
   8.   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises, or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   9.   Advertising of all kinds, types and characters, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except as provided elsewhere in this article;
   10.   Dues or fees to clubs, and the sale of tickets or admission to places
of amusement, to athletic, entertainment or recreational events, or dues or
fees for the privilege of having access to, or the use of, amusement,
entertainment, athletic or recreational facilities (including free or
complimentary passes, tickets, dues or fees which are hereby declared to have a
value equivalent to the sale price of tickets, passes, admissions, fees or dues
of like kind or character);
   11.   For the purpose of this article, sales of service or tangible personal
property made for the purpose of developing real estate, even though such real
estate is intended for resale as real property, are hereby declared to be sales
to consumers or users; sales of service and tangible personal property,
including materials, supplies and equipment made to contractors who use the
same in the performance of any contract, are hereby declared to be sales to
consumers or users and not sales for resale; sales of tangible personal
property to persons who are primarily engaged in selling their services shall
be deemed sales to consumers or users and, therefore, taxable; sales of
tangible personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other salespeople who do
not have established places of business, shall be deemed to be sales to
consumers or users, and therefore, taxable; and
   12.   The total retail sale price received for the sale, preparation or
service of mixed beverages, ice and non-alcoholic beverages to be mixed with
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale,
preparation and service occurs, shall constitute the gross receipts from such
transaction.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -; Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 1-108 EXEMPTIONS.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this article,
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the sales tax law of the
state, inclusive, but not exclusive of, or derived from, the:
   1.   Sale of raw products from the farm, orchard or garden where such sale
is made by the producer of such raw products directly to the consumer or user;
gross receipts or gross proceeds derived from the sale of livestock, poultry
products and dairy products by the producers; exemptions granted by this
subsection 1. shall not apply when such articles are sold, even though by the
producer thereof, at or from an “established business place” not on a farm;
neither shall this exemption apply unless said articles are produced or grown
within the state; the provisions of this subsection 1. are intended to exempt
the sale by livestock producers of livestock sold at special livestock sales;
the provisions of this subsection 1. are intended to exempt the sale of dairy
products when sold by a dairyman or farmer who owns all of the cows from which
the dairy products he or she sells are produced; the provisions of this
subsection 1. shall not be construed to exempt sales by florists, nurserymen
and chicken hatcheries;
   2.   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or system
and do not operate for a profit which inures to the benefit of any individual
member or members thereof, to the exclusion of other members;
   3.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except where such organizations may be engaged in business for profit or
savings, competing with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
   4.   Gross receipts and gross proceeds deriving from the transportation of
school children to and from schools and high schools in motor and other
vehicles;
   5.   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not exceed
$0.15, or local transportation of persons within the corporate limits of
cities, except by taxicabs;
   6.   Sales of food in public, common, high school or college cafeterias and
lunch rooms operated primarily for teachers and pupils, but not operated
primarily for the public or for profit;
   7.   Carrier sales made directly to consumers or users of newspapers or any
other periodicals where any individual transaction does not exceed the limits
established by state law;
   8.   Sales to the United States government, state or any of its political
subdivisions;
   9.   Sales of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax has been paid to the state;
   10.   Sales of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to the gross production tax under the provisions of the laws
of the state; this exemption shall not apply when such products are sold to a
consumer or user for consumption or use, except when used for injection into
the search for the purpose of promoting or facilitating the production of oil
or gas; this exemption shall also not operate to increase or repeal the gross
production tax levied by the state;
   11.   Sales of motor vehicles, attached optional equipment and accessories
on which the state motor vehicles excise tax has been paid;
   12.   Sales by county, district and state fairs;
   13.   Sales of advertising space in newspapers, periodicals and billboards
advertising services, and sales of time for radio and television broadcasts of
advertising;
   14.   Sales for resale to persons regularly engaged in the business of
reselling articles purchased, whether within or without the state; provided,
that, such sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales
permits have been issued by the State Tax Commission as provided by law; this
exemption shall not apply to the sales of articles made to persons holding
permits when such persons purchase items for their use and which they are not
regularly engaged in the business of reselling; neither shall this exemption
apply to sales of tangible personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other
salespeople who do not have sales tax permits or established places of
business;
   15.   Goods, wares, merchandise and property sold for use in manufacturing,
compounding, processing, assembling or preparing for sale shall be classified
as having been sold for the purpose of resale or the subject matter of resale,
only in the event:
      a.   Such goods, wares, merchandise or property are purchased for the
purpose of being manufactured into a finished article and if it becomes a
recognizable and integral part of the manufactured, compounded, processed,
assembled or prepared products; or
      b.   If it is consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing products for resale;
   16.   Sales of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the state, and machinery
and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing
plants already established in the state; provided, that, this exemption shall
not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into and directly
used in the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation hereunder;
the term manufacturing or processing operations and generally recognized as
such;
   17.   Sales of tangible personal property manufactured in the state, when
sold by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state;
   18.   Sales of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other persons who, after such sale, owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property;
   19.   Sales of containers shall be exempt, when sold to a person regularly
engaged in the business of reselling empty or filled containers, or when he or
she purchases such containers for the purpose of packaging raw products of
farm, garden or orchard for resale to the consumer or processor; provided,
that, this exemption shall not apply to the sale of containers used more than
once and which are ordinarily known as returnable containers, unless a tax
under this article is collected and paid to the Tax Collector with respect to
each and every transfer by such person of title or possession of such
returnable container, if made to any consumer or user within this state; nor
shall it apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered along with
items sold, but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to the sale of
the sold merchandise;
   20.   Exemptions of poultry, livestock feed and farm machinery, as
prescribed by the State Sales Tax Code, shall be equally applicable as
exemptions from the tax herein levied;
   21.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to persons regularly engaged for
profit in the business of farming and/or ranching; this section shall not be
construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and sold for use
in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
   22.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged for profit in
the business of supplying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land
owned or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming and/or ranching;
   23.   Sales of agriculture seed or plants to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming and/or ranching; this section shall not
be construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and sold for
use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
   24.   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming and/or ranching;
   25.   Gross proceeds from the sale of farm machinery and repair parts
thereto, to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production, cultivation,
planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation or irrigation
of any livestock, poultry, agriculture or dairy products produced from such
lands;
   26.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the Council
organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy Scouts of
America, the Girl Scouts and the Campfire Girls;
   27.   Gross proceeds from the sale of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter
pullets used in the commercial production of chickens, turkeys and eggs;
provided that, the purchaser certifies in writing on the copy of the invoice or
sales ticket to be retained by the seller that the pullets will be used
primarily for egg production;
   28.   Sales of aircraft on which the tax levied by applicable state law has
been paid; provided, that, this exemption shall not apply until after July 1,
1984; and
   29.   All other applicable exemptions granted by future amendments to the
state’s sales tax statutes.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-109 OTHER EXEMPT TRANSFERS.
   Also, there is hereby specifically exempted from the tax herein levied, the
transfer of tangible personal property exempted from the state sales tax law
inclusive, but not exclusive of, the following:
   1.   From one corporation to another corporation, pursuant to a re-
organization; as used in this subsection 1., the term RE-ORGANIZATION means:
      a.   A statutory merger or consolidation; or
      b.   The acquisition by a corporation of substantially all of the
properties of another corporation, when the consideration is solely all or a
part of the voting stock of the acquiring corporation, or of its parent or
subsidiary corporation.
   2.   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
   3.   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such corporation
where the former owners of the property transferred are, immediately after the
transfer, in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities received
by each is substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior
to the transfer;
   4.   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the former
owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer, members
of such partnership, and the interest in the partnership received by each is
substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to the
transfer; and
   5.   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of such partnership.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-110 TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the sales
tax law of the state.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-111 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   1.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in the manner and form provided for payment of the state sales tax under
the sales tax law of the state.
   2.   The bracket system for the collection of the 3% municipal sales tax by
the Tax Collector, shall be as the same as hereafter adopted by the agreement
of the city and the Tax Collector in the collection of both the 3% municipal
sales tax and the state sales tax.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-112 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-113 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX.
   1.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this municipality
to collect from the consumer or user, the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   2.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable by law in the same
manner as other debts.
   3.   A vendor, as defined herein, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with these provisions, or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either
directly or indirectly and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax
herein levied, or makes in any form of advertising (verbally or otherwise) any
statement which infers that the vendor is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices, at a price including the
tax or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-114 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code;
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for collection of state sales tax.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-115 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217, as amended, is hereby adopted and made a part of this
article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this article. The failure or refusal of
any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit all claim to any discount allowed under this article.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-116 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest, penalty or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the municipal sales tax herein levied, may be waived
or remitted in the same manner provided for said waiver or remittance, as
applied in the administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220;
to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said
68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-117 ERRONEOUS PAYMENT; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipal sales tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment, in the same manner and
procedure and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and, to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said 68
O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-118 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment or any tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due
under this article, shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine of not more than the limits
established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-119 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipal sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 (as
amended), of the State Sales Tax Code and each subsection thereof, are hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the municipal sales tax, as if set forth herein in full.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-120 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of these ordinances at the
elections hereinbefore noted, have authorized the City Council, by ordinances
duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in
the method and manner of administration and enforcement of this article as may
be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness; provided, that, the rate of
the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified
electors of the municipality, as provided by law.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§ 1-121 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE AND SEVERABLE.
   1.   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of municipal ordinances.
   2.   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this article is for any reason held
invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof.
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 113, passed - -)
§§ 1-122 THROUGH 1-139 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 6: USE TAX
§ 1-140 EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF TANGIBLE PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the city, tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into this municipality, an excise tax on the storage, use
or otherwise consuming within the municipality of such property at the rate of
3% of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every
person storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the municipality,
tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the municipality. The
additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or
storage of the property within the municipality and shall be assessed to only
property purchased outside the state; provided, that, the tax levied herein
shall not be levied against tangible, personal property intended solely for use
outside the municipality, but which is stored in the municipality pending
shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily retained in the
municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the use tax
authorized herein may deduct from such use tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that, the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-141 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   1.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   2.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for re-
sale before being used;
   3.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State Use Tax
Code and the city’s use tax ordinance, has been paid by the person using such
tangible, personal property in the municipality, whether such tax was levied
under the laws of the state or some other state or municipality of the United
States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by the state or any other state or municipality in respect
to its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the State
Use Tax Code and the city’s use tax ordinance, the provisions of this article
shall also apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only between the
rate provided by both the State Use Tax Code and the city’s use tax ordinance,
and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed;
provided, that, no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or
municipality, if that state or municipality does not grant like credit for
taxes paid in the state and the municipality;
   4.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the machinery and
equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to the taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the
city. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments primarily
engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as
such;
   5.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the city;
   6.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
   7.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used, or to be used, by commercial airlines or railroads; or
   8.   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later re-sold.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-142 TIME DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT.
   The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the Use Tax
Code of the state.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-143 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty or interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as with any other debt.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-144 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the state, and making sales of tangible, personal property from a place
of business outside this state for use in the city shall, at the time of making
such sales, collect the use tax levied by this article from the purchaser and
give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by
the State Tax Commission, if said Tax Commission shall, by regulation, require
such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with said Tax Commission the
name and address of all his or her agents operating in this municipality and
location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places
of business in this municipality.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-145 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING A PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN STATE OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE; PERMITS.
   The State Tax Commission may, at its discretion, upon application, authorize
the collection of the use tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in this municipality, and by the out-of-
state place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without the state and making sales of tangible,
personal property at such out-of-state place of business for use in this
municipality. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit
to collect such taxes, by said Tax Commission in such manner and subject to
such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it
shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the use tax upon all
tangible, personal property sold to his or her knowledge for use within this
municipality. Such authority and permit may be canceled when, at any time, said
Tax Commission considers that such use tax can more effectively be collected
from the person using such property in this municipality; provided, however,
that, in all instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to
the purchaser within this municipality by the retailer or vendor in such
retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common
carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable
municipal sales tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and
reported under the taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-146 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, authorized to collect the use tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the State Use Tax Code or any order, rules or regulations of the State Tax
Commission, said Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 O.S. § 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such
retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a corporation
authorized to do business in this state may, after the notice and hearing above
provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in this state and
shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied with the
obligations under this article, the State Use Tax Code, or any order, rules or
regulations of the State Tax Commission.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-147 DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the use tax herein levied and collected shall be
made to the State Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code;
remittances of use taxes collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as maybe allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-148 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217, is hereby adopted and made a part of this article, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the use tax levied by this article; provided, that, the failure or
refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and
remittances of use tax in the time and manner required by this article shall
cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for
a period of five days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to
any discount allowed under this article.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-149 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the use tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 227; to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said 68
O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-150 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipal use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time provided for administration
of the state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227; to accomplish the purpose
of this section, the applicable provisions of said 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-151 FRAUDULENT RETURNS; PENALTY.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any use tax, or portion thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed the limits
established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50, of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-152 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, of the
State Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
municipal use tax, as if herein set forth in full.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-153 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE AND SEPARABLE.
   1.   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of municipal ordinances.
   2.   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be separable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this article, is for any reason held
invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-154 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State Use Tax
Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
article. For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the municipality or the official agency of
the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to
administer the collection of the use tax herein levied.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-155 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Use Tax Code.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-156 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Use Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional municipal permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 1-157 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city and
any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the City Council for
any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended and authorized.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§§ 1-158 THROUGH 1-169 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 7: FIREMEN’S PENSIONS
§ 1-170 PARTICIPATION IN STATE FIREMEN’S RELIEF AND PENSION FUND.
   The Volunteer Fire Department of the city shall be subject to all of the
provisions of the State Firemen’s Relief and Pension Act, all of the provisions
of which are hereby accepted by the city for the use and benefit of its
Volunteer Fire Department, which shall also be subject to all of the
obligations thereunder.
§§ 1-171 THROUGH 1-189 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 8: SOCIAL SECURITY
§ 1-190 EXTENSION OF BENEFITS.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend to
the employees and officials thereof, not excluded by law or this article, and
whether employed in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, the
benefits of the system of federal old-age and survivors insurance, as
authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto. In
pursuance of such policy and for that purpose, said municipality shall take
such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
§ 1-191 EXECUTION OF AGREEMENTS.
   The Mayor of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute all
necessary agreements and amendments thereto, with the appropriate state
department as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as
provided in
§ 1-190.
§ 1-192 WITHHOLDINGS FROM SALARIES.
   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purpose provided in
§ 1-180 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as
may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall
be paid over to the state or federal agency designed by such laws and
regulations.
§ 1-193 CONTRIBUTIONS BY CITY.
   There shall be appropriated by the city from available funds, such amounts
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations for employers’ contributions to the Federal Social Security System.
Such funds shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by said
laws or regulations.
§ 1-194 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The city shall keep such records and make such reports, relative to the
Federal Social Security System, as may be required by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
§ 1-195 EXCLUDED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   1.   There is hereby excluded from this article and the benefits established
hereunder, any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or
any employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
city.
   2.   There is hereby excluded from this article and the benefits established
hereunder, any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official, compensation for which is on a fee basis, or any
position, employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state
or federal laws or regulations.
§§ 1-196 THROUGH 1-209 RESERVED FOR FIXTURE USE.
ARTICLE 9: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
§ 1-210 INSPECTION FEE.
   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon
every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange or rendering
telephone service in the city in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues
for each current year, for exchange telephone transmission service rendered
wholly within the corporate limits of the city to compensate the municipality
for the expenses incurred and services rendered incident to the exercise of its
police power, supervision, policy regulation and control during construction
and operation of lines and equipment of said telephone company in said
municipality. Said fee shall be due and payable on or before March 1 of each
year and shall be paid into, and expended from, the General Fund of the city.
§ 1-211 FEE IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this article by
the owner of the telephone exchange (or company rendering telephone service
within the limits of said municipality), the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excises, franchises,
licenses, privileges and permit fees, taxes or assessments except ad valorem
taxes; provided, that, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate all
existing arrangements whereby said municipality is permitted to use any
underground conduits, duct space or pole contracts of said company.
§ 1-212 FAILURE TO PAY INSPECTION FEE.
   Should any person, firm or corporation fail or refuse to pay such fee when
levied, action may be taken against such person, firm or corporation for the
amount of such fees; all expenses for collection of the same, including
reasonable attorney fees, shall be paid by the party or parties that said
action is taken against.
§§ 1-213 THROUGH 1-229 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 10: GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
§ 1-230 POWER TO LEVY AND ASSESS TAX; TAX IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES.
   The City Council, being vested with power so to do, does hereby levy and
assess an annual tax upon the gross receipts from residential and commercial
sales of power, light, heat, electricity, water or both natural and liquefied
petroleum gas in the city, in the amount of 3.75% of the gross receipts from
said residential and commercial sales; this tax shall be in lieu of any other
franchise, license, occupation or excise tax levied by the city.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 1-231 APPLICATION OF TAX.
   The tax authorized to be levied under
§ 1-230 shall be levied at the time this article shall take effect and shall
apply to all persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in the
business of furnishing power, light, heat, electricity, water or both natural
and liquefied petroleum gas in the city; it shall not apply to any person,
firm, association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the
city and said exception shall be so stated in said valid franchise.
§ 1-232 TAX LEVIED UNTIL REPEALED; PAYABLE QUARTERLY; DISPOSITION.
   This tax that is now levied under
§ 1-230 shall be levied for a term of not less than one year and shall continue
in effect until further amended or repealed; said tax shall be payable
quarterly to the City Clerk and placed in the General Fund of said city.
§ 1-233 PENALTIES; FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Should any person, firm or corporation fail or refuse to pay such tax when
levied, action may be taken against such person, firm or corporation for the
amount of such tax; all expenses for collection of the same, including
reasonable attorney fees, shall be paid by the party or parties that said
action is taken against.
§ 1-234 LIEN FOR TAX.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the city of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling power, light, heat, electricity, water or natural and
liquefied petroleum gas.
§ 1-235 GAS SALES TAX.
   1.   From and after the effective date of this section, there is hereby
levied and assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross receipts from
residential and commercial sales of gas in the city, which tax shall be in lieu
of any other franchise, license, occupation or excise levied by such town, all
as provided by 68 O.S. §§ 2601 through 2605.
   2.   The tax levied under subsection 1. above shall, when levied, apply to
all persons, firms, associations, or corporations, engaged in the business of
furnishing gas within the city limits, except it shall not apply to any person,
firm, association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the
city, nor to the city itself when providing such services.
   3.   The tax levied under subsection 1. above shall be levied for a term of
not less than one year and shall be payable monthly and shall be placed in the
general revenue fund of the city.
   4.   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax
when levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town
and in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm
or corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney’s fees.
   5.   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the
assets located within said town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business of selling gas within the city limits.
   6.   Any persons, firms, associations, or corporations engaged in the
business of furnishing gas within the city limits, not operating under a valid
franchise from said town, is hereby granted a revocable permit by said for so
long as this chapter remains in effect and the taxes are paid in accordance
with the terms of this section to acquire, construct, erect, install, extend,
repair, remove, relocate, replace, operate and maintain a system of works,
pipes, pipelines, apparatus, structures, and appurtenance in, across, upon and
under the streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, parks, parkways,
sidewalks, parkings, driveways, rights of way, utility easements, and other
public ways, places, areas and grounds, all being sometimes referred to herein
as “streets, alleys, avenues, and other public ways, places and grounds,” in
the city as now constituted, and as may be added to hereafter, for the purpose
of transporting, distributing, and selling gas to said town, its inhabitants
and the public generally for domestic, commercial, and industrial uses, and for
any and all other purposes for which gas, during the period of the revocable
permit may be used, together with the right to enter upon streets, alleys,
avenues, and other public way, places and grounds of said town for the purpose
of constructing, erecting, installing, extending, relocating, operating,
maintaining, removing; and repairing said works, pipes, pipelines and all
necessary apparatus, machinery, structures, and appurtenances.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 5-13-2013)
§§ 1-236 THROUGH 1-249 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 11: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 1-250 OFFICERS TO GIVE BONDS.
   1.   The City Clerk, City Treasurer, Chief of Police and the city’s
purchasing agent(s) shall each be bonded by the city within ten days after
their election or appointment, in the following amounts:
      a.   City Clerk-Treasurer, $2,000; and
      b.   Chief of Police, $1,000.
   2.   The City Council shall, by motion, establish bond requirements for
other municipal officers and employees, as necessary or as required.
§ 1-251 COMPENSATION; CHANGE OF SALARIES.
   1. The basic compensation of the following elected municipal officers shall
be as indicated below:
      a.   Each Council member, $400 per month;
      b.   Mayor, $800 per month; and
   2.   The basic salaries of elected municipal officials shall not be changed
after their election or during their term of office (State Constitution,
Article 23, § 10).
   3.   The City Council may determine or regulate the number and class of
officers and employees and determine or change their compensation, by motion or
resolution; this provision shall also be applicable to, the City Clerk-
Treasurer, whenever said position is appointive.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 1-252 SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT.
   1.   All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this code of
ordinances, shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they
expire by their limitations.
   2.   All officers and employees of the city under any and all previous
ordinances, shall continue in the offices and employments which they
respectively hold, after this code of ordinances goes into effect.
   3.   All books, monies or other property belonging to the city and in charge
or possession of any officer of the city shall be delivered to said person’s
successor.
§ 1-253 NEPOTISM; COMPATIBILITY OF OFFICES.
   1. No member of the City Council nor any other authority of the municipal
government, may appoint, or vote for the appointment of, any person related to
said person by affinity or consanguinity within the third degree, to any office
or position of profit in the municipal government.
   2.   The following relatives shall be considered as within the third degree
of affinity or consanguinity: sons; daughters; grandsons; granddaughters; great
grandsons; great granddaughters; brothers; sisters; nephews; nieces; aunts;
uncles; primary cousins; grandfathers; grandmothers; grand uncles; grand aunts;
great grandfathers; great grandmothers; son-in-law; great granddaughter-in-law;
brother-in-law; sister-in-law; nephew-in-law; niece-in-law; aunt-in-law; uncle-
in-law; primary cousins-in-law; grandfather-in-law; grandmother-in-law; grand
uncle-in-law; grand aunt-in-law; great grandfather-in-law; great grandmother-
in-law; grand nephew; grand niece; grand nephew-in-law; grand niece-in-law;
stepson; stepdaughters; stepfather; or stepmother; a divorce decree shall be
deemed to dissolve all relationships arising by that marriage.
   3.   Except as may be otherwise provided by ordinance, the same person may
hold more than one office or position in the municipal government.
§ 1-254 ORDINANCES: GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the City Council shall
be: “BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Cache, Oklahoma”, and of
all ordinances proposed by the voters under their power of initiative, “BE IT
ORDAINED by the People of the City of Cache, Oklahoma”.
   2.   Every proposed ordinance shall be read and a vote of a majority of all
the Council member shall be required for its final passage.
   3.   The Mayor shall have no power to veto any ordinance.
   4.   Every ordinance, except those exempted by state law, shall be published
by title or in full, within 15 days after its passage, in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city or county, or posted in ten public places
within the city.
   5.   Every ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall become effective
30 days after its final passage, unless it specifies a later date.
   6.   An EMERGENCY ORDINANCE is an ordinance which, in the judgment of the
City Council, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the local welfare,
peace, health or safety, and which should become effective prior to the time
when a regular ordinance would become effective. Every such ordinance shall
contain, as a part of its title, the words “and declaring an emergency” and, in
a separate section (herein called the emergency section), shall declare the
emergency. The City Council shall vote on the emergency section separately and
must adopt said emergency section by a vote of at least three-fourths of all
the members of said City Council. An emergency ordinance shall take effect upon
passage, unless it specifies a later date.
§ 1-255 ORDINANCES: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council, by ordinance, may adopt by reference codes, ordinances and
standards relating to building, plumbing, electrical installations and other
matters which it has the power to regulate. Such a code, ordinance or standard
so adopted, need not be enrolled in this code of ordinances; provided, that,
three copies are filed and kept in the office of the City Clerk.
§ 1-256 ORDINANCES: COMPILATION.
   1.   Every ten years, the city shall compile and publish its effective penal
ordinances in a permanent form.
   2.   Two copies of the compilation of ordinances shall be deposited by the
city in the County Law Library.
   3.   Every two years the city shall prepare, adopt and publish supplements
to its compiled penal ordinances, and no ordinance shall be enforced if it is
not reflected in such compilation or supplement, if such ordinance was adopted
more than one year prior to the latest compilation or supplement.
   4.   When the city has compiled and published its code of ordinances and
succeeding supplements, the City Council shall adopt a resolution notifying the
public of such compliance and cause certified copies of the resolution, the
code of ordinances and the supplements to be filed in the office of the County
Clerk and the County Law Library.
§ 1-257 AMENDMENTS OR ADDITIONS TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   1.   The City Council shall have the power to repeal, alter or amend this
code of ordinances.
   2.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which
amend, repeal, or in any way affect said code, may be supplemented every two
years by being numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this code of
ordinances and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal
any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, such repealed
portions may be excluded from this code of ordinances by omission thereof from
re-printed pages. Such inclusion of ordinances passed subsequent to this code
of ordinances which amend or add to this code (except in the case of repeal),
shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time
that this code of ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted, are
re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by the City Council.
   3.   An ordinance may contain only one subject and the subject shall be
expressed in its title. The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the
City Council shall be “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cache,
Oklahoma,” for city ordinances.
   4.   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code of
ordinances is to be added, the following language shall generally be used: “Be
it ordained by the Council of the City of Cache, Oklahoma that the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Cache, Oklahoma is hereby amended by adding Section
____ to Article ___ of Chapter ___ which section reads as follows:
______________________.” The new section shall then be set out in full as
desired.
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Article 1. State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act
   
2-1   State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act adopted
   
2-2   Definitions and interpretations
   
2-3 through 2-9 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Alcoholic or Intoxicating Beverages
   
2-10   Municipal occupation tax; license; reporting
   
2-11   Retail package stores: location; hours; offenses
   
2-12 through 2-19 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Non-Intoxicating Beverages
   
2-20   Definitions
   
2-21   License
   
2-22   Retail dealers in non-intoxicating beverages
   
2-23   Hours of sale
   
2-24 through 2-29 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
2-30   Clubs: application for certificates of compliance
   
2-31   Minors
   
2-32 through 2-39 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Penalty
   
2-40   Penalty
ARTICLE 1. STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT
§ 2-1 STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT ADOPTED.
   The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37A O.S. §§ 1 through 168) is
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in this code of ordinances for the
city; applicable provisions of the Act are hereby declared to be in full force,
as if included herein in complete detail.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 10-15-2018)
§ 2-2 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   All words, phrases and terms used in this and other chapters relating to the
use of alcoholic beverages, and not defined herein, shall be interpreted and
construed in conformity with the definitions of the same as set forth in the
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37A O.S. § 1-103).
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 10-15-2018)
§§ 2-3 THROUGH 2-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: ALCOHOLIC OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 2-10 MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAX; LICENSE; REPORTING.
   1. An annual municipal occupation tax, as shown below, is hereby levied on
persons engaging in the following businesses within the city:
a.  Brewer license                                                                $1,250
b.  Oklahoma brewer license                                                       $125
c.  Distiller license
       (1)   For each fiscal year ending after June 30, 2010                $3,125
       (2)   For the fiscal years ending June 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010       $1,250
d.  Winemaker license                                                             $625
e.  Oklahoma winemaker license                                                    $75
f.  Rectifier license
       (1)   For each fiscal year ending after June 30, 2010                $3,125
       (2)   For the fiscal years ending June 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010       $1,250
g.  Wholesaler license                                                            $3,500
h.  Class B wholesaler license                                                    $625
i.  The following package store license fees shall be determined by the latest
    federal decennial census:
       (1)   Package store license for cities and towns from 200 to 2,500   $305
    population
       (2)   Package store license for cities and towns from 2,501 to 5,000 $605
    population
       (3)   Package store license for cities and towns over 5,000 populatio$905
j.  Mixed beverage license (initial license)                                      $1,005
       (renewal)                                                               $905
k.  Mixed beverage/caterer combination license                                    $1,250
l.  Beer and wine license (initial license)                                       $500
       (renewal)                                                               $450
m.  Bottle club license (initial license)                                         $1,000
       (renewal)                                                               $900
n.  Caterer license (initial license)                                             $1,005
       (renewal)                                                               $905
o.  Annual special event license                                                  $55
p.  Quarterly special event license                                               $55
q.  Hotel beverage license (initial license)                                      $1,005
       (renewal)                                                               $905
r.  Airline/railroad beverage license (initial license)                           $1,005
       (renewal)                                                               $905
s.  Agent license                                                                 $55
t.  Employee license                                                              $30
u.  Industrial license                                                            $23
v.  Carrier license                                                               $23
w.  Private carrier license                                                       $23
x.  Bonded warehouse license                                                      $190
y.  Storage license                                                               $23
z.  Nonresident seller license                                                    $750
aa. Manufacturers agent license                                                   $55
bb. Sacramental wine supplier license                                             $100
cc. Charitable auction license                                                    $1
 
   2.   There shall be added to the initial or renewal fees for a mixed
beverage license an administrative fee, which shall not be deemed to be a
license fee, in the amount of $500, which shall be paid at the same time and in
the same manner as the license fees prescribed by subsection 3. below;
provided, this fee shall not be assessed against service organizations or
fraternal beneficiary societies which are exempt under § 501(c)(19), (8) or
(10) of the Internal Revenue Code (being Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 26 U.S.C.
§ 501(c)(19), (8), or (10)). There shall be added to the fee for a mixed
beverage/caterer combination license an administrative fee, which shall not be
deemed to be a license fee, in the amount of $250, which shall be paid at the
same time and in the same manner as the license fee prescribed by subsection 4.
below.
   3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 1. above:
      a.   The license fee for a mixed beverage or bottle club license for
those service organizations or fraternal beneficiary societies which are exempt
under § 501(c)(19), (8) or (10) of the Internal Revenue Code shall be $500 per
year;
      b.   The fees provided for in subsection 1. above for a brewer license
and for a Class B wholesaler license shall be reduced by 75% if the applicant
therefor is also the holder of a license to manufacture or wholesale any low-
point beer as provided for in this title; and
      c.   The renewal fee for an airline/railroad beverage license held by a
railroad described in 49 U.S.C. § 24301, shall be $100.
   4.   An applicant may apply for and receive both a beer and wine license and
a caterer license.
   5.   All licenses, except as otherwise provided, shall be valid for one year
from date of issuance unless revoked or surrendered; provided, all employee
licenses issued on or after September 1, 1993, shall be valid for two years.
   6.   The holder of a license, issued by the ABLE Commission, a bottle club
located in a county of this state where the sale of alcoholic beverages by the
individual drink for on-premises consumption has been authorized, may exchange
the bottle club license for a mixed beverage license or a beer and wine license
and operate the licensed premises as a mixed beverage establishment or a beer
and wine establishment subject to the provisions of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act. There shall be no additional fee for such exchange and
the mixed beverage license or beer and wine license issued shall expire one
year from the date of issuance of the original bottle club license.
   7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the businesses
listed above without having paid the municipal occupation tax levied by this
article and obtaining a valid license from the City Clerk. If the applicant
holds a valid state license to engage in said business within the city, is
operating in compliance with municipal ordinances and has paid the required
municipal occupation tax, the City Clerk shall issue the license applied for.
   8.   The City Clerk shall transmit a report to the State ABLE Commission on
June 30 of each year, showing the amount of money collected and the number of
municipal occupation tax licenses issued under this chapter.
§ 2-11 RETAIL PACKAGE STORES: LOCATION; HOURS; OFFENSES.
   1.   Location. The location of a retail package store is specifically
prohibited within 300 feet of a public school, or any church property primarily
and regularly used for worship services and religious activities; provided,
that, if any such church or school shall be established within 300 feet of any
licensed retail premises after such premises have been licensed, this shall not
be a bar to the renewal of such license so long as it has been in continuous
force and effect. The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from
the nearest property line of such church or school to the nearest public
entrance door of the premises of such package store, along the street right-of-
way line providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians
between such points. For the purpose of determining measured distance, property
situated on the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be
considered as if it were located on the same side of the street with such
church or school. A license shall not be issued for any location on the same
block where a school or church is located.
   2.   Separate premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or
maintain, or to assist in the operation or maintenance of, any retail package
store when the premises are not separated from the premises on which any other
goods, wares or merchandise are sold or services are rendered, by non-
transparent walls (which may be broken by a passageway to which the public is
not admitted). It shall be unlawful for any person to take any alcoholic
beverage from such store through said passageway to which the public is not
admitted, for the purpose of selling, re-selling or delivering in connection
with the sale of, said alcoholic beverages.
   3.   Hours of operation. It shall be unlawful for any person holding a
license for a retail package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to keep
the premises of the retail package store open for the purpose of selling, or
keep package store premises open for the purpose of selling, any alcoholic
beverages at any hour other than between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and midnight
Monday through Saturday; provided, that no such sales shall be made, or package
store premises be allowed to remain open for the purpose of making such sales
on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day. Package store licensees shall be
permitted to sell, or keep package store premises open for the purpose of
selling, alcoholic beverages on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary
or special election whether on a national, state, county or city election,
provided that the election day does not occur on any day on which such sales
are otherwise prohibited by law.
   4.   Conditions of sale. Retail package stores may sell alcoholic beverages
only in retail containers in the original package for consumption off the
premises.
   5.   Offenses. It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a
retail package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to:
      a.   Knowingly sell, deliver or furnish any alcoholic beverages to any
person under 21 years of age, an intoxicated person or any person who has been
legally adjudged insane or mentally deficient;
      b.   Employ any person under 21 years of age in the selling or handling
of alcoholic beverages;
      c.   Permit any person under 21 years of age to enter into, remain within
or loiter about a licensed premises; or
      d.   Permit any person to open a retail container or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-11-2023)
§§ 2-12 THROUGH 2-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 2-20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES. Any beverages which include low-point alcohol
levels containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and less than 3.2% alcohol
by weight.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person, firm, corporation, association, or concessionaire
who sells, distributes or dispenses, at retail, any non-intoxicating beverage
within the corporate limits of the city, without regard as to any place where
such beverages may be consumed or used.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 1-9-2024)
§ 2-21 LICENSE.
   Reserved for future use.
§ 2-22 RETAIL DEALERS IN NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or
maintaining a place of business where non-intoxicating beverages are sold for
consumption on the premises, or for any person in charge thereof, to:
   1.   Sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for or otherwise dispense to,
any person under 21 years of age, any non-intoxicating beverage;
   2.   Permit any person under 21 years of age, to loiter or remain in or
around such place of business, except where such business is an eating place
where the service of such beverages is incidental to the main business of
serving food;
   3.   Employ any person under 21 years of age to work in such a place, except
where said place is an eating place where the service of such beverages is
incidental to the main business of serving food;
   4.   Sell, deliver or knowingly furnish non-intoxicating beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been legally adjudged insane or
mentally deficient;
   5.   Permit therein gambling, betting or operation of a lottery;
   6.   Permit the sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating liquor;
   7.   Permit disorderly conduct, loud or disturbing language or any other
violation of state law or of the code of ordinances of the city; or
   8.   Permit an intoxicated person to remain in or around a place of business
where non-intoxicating beverages are dispensed.
§ 2-23 HOURS OF SALE.
   1.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for non-intoxicating beverages (as
herein defined) to be sold, given away or otherwise dispensed for consumption
on the premises, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. Sunday and 7:00 a.m. on the
following Monday.
   2.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for non-intoxicating beverages (as
herein defined) to be sold, given away or otherwise dispensed for consumption
on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any other day.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the legal owner or
primarily-responsible, salaried employee(s) to remain on the premises of a
place of business where non-intoxicating beverages are dispensed for
consumption on the premises, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on
any day or when the premises are legally closed.
§§ 2-24 THROUGH 2-29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 2-30 CLUBS: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   1.   Every applicant for certificates of compliance with the Zoning, Fire,
Health and Safety Codes of the city, required by O.S. Title 37A, shall apply at
the office of the City Clerk by:
      a.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      b.   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount of $50 at
the time of filing.
   2.   Upon receipt of completed applications for certificates of compliance,
the City Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for club operations comply with the provisions of the zoning
ordinance, other applicable development regulations and any Health, Fire,
Building and other Safety Codes applicable to it.
   3.   The above certificates of zoning and code compliance shall be signed by
the City Clerk or a designated representative of the City Clerk.
§ 2-31 MINORS.
   It shall be an offense for any person to sell, barter, trade, give or
otherwise transfer possession of any non-intoxicating or alcoholic beverage to
any person under the legal age permitted to possess or consume such beverages.
§§ 2-32 THROUGH 2-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: PENALTY
§ 2-40 PENALTY.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any amount not to exceed the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances.
   2.   Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 3: ANIMALS
Section
Article 1: General Provisions
   
3-1   Definitions
   
3-2   Applicability of state laws to custody of animals
   
3-3   Injuring, poisoning or trapping animals prohibited
   
3-4   Diseased animals; injured or sick animals
   
3-5   Property owner may impound animal
   
3-6   Noisy animals; complaint procedure for animals which disturb in violation
of code
   
3-7   Certain animals prohibited; animal fighting prohibited
   
3-8   Keeping of wild or exotic animals
   
3-9   Vaccination required; certificate of vaccination; impound fee
   
3-10   Tag and collar required, removal, non-transferable, inspection, offense
   
3-11   Control of animals required, at large, arrest, estrays, confinement in
season
   
3-12   Dog or cat running at large: owners cited
   
3-13   Dogs prohibited from city park trails
   
3-14   Impounded, records, disposition of animals, adoption, licensing of dogs
and cats
   
3-15   Redemption of impounded animals; licensing of dogs and cats
   
3-16   Spaying or neutering as condition for release of dogs and cats:
extension of time; spaying neutering required; sterilization agreement;
deposits required: use or forfeited deposits: penalty
   
3-17   Keeping of animals; mistreatment, abandonment prohibited; care;
restraining of dogs prohibited; exercise area for dogs
   
3-18   Removal of dog excrement
   
3-19   Dead animal pickup; fees
   
3-20   Penalty
   
3-21   Breaking pound
   
3-22   Keeping animals
   
3-23   Nuisance animals and abatement procedures
   
3-24 through 3-34 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Dangerous Dogs
   
3-35   Definitions
   
3-36   Unlawful to own dangerous dog without certificate of registration
   
3-37   Unlawful for dangerous dogs to be outside proper enclosure unless
muzzled and restrained
   
3-38   Confiscation of dangerous dogs authorized under certain conditions;
penalty
   
3-39   Purpose and construction of Article 2
   
3-40   Court proceeding against vicious or dangerous dogs
   
3-41 through 3-55 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Rabies and Animal Bites
   
3-56   Animal bites; rabies examination; quarantine
   
3-57   Responsibility for cost incurred
   
3-58   Killing or removing rabid animal prohibited
   
3-59   Reports of bite cases; report by veterinarian
   
3-60   Records
   
3-61   Exemptions from article
   
3-62   Interference
   
3-63 through 3-77 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Licenses and Permits for Kennels, Keeping Large/Small Animals
   
3-78   License required; application fee; rabies vaccination; term; sanitary
conditions: exception
   
3-79   Facility standards, space requirements, exceptions
   
3-80   Right of entry for inspection; revocation of license, subject to review
by the City Council
   
3-81   Municipal pound authorized
   
3-82 through 3-93 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Licensing of Dogs and Cats; Fees
   
3-94   License for dogs and cats
   
3-95   Terms of license; exemption
   
3-96   Issuance of records
   
3-97   Fastening of tags to collar or harness
   
3-98   License fee; license fee in addition to other fees
   
3-99   Use of revenues collected from license fees
   
3-100   Transfer of cats and dogs
   
3-101   Non-applicability of article
   
3-102   Fee schedule
   
3-103   Validity of chapter
   
3-104 through 3-117 Reserved for future use
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words or phrases used herein shall be defined and interpreted according to
their common usage. City powers to regulate animals provided in 11 O.S. §22-
115.
   ABANDON.
      a.   Cease providing for the daily care, welfare or maintenance of an
animal without the transfer of ownership of such animal;
      b.   Fail to retrieve, claim or relinquish ownership to the city, an
animal impounded at the animal shelter for any violation of the city code after
notice is given to the owner of such animal, if known; or
      c.   Allowing an animal to reside at a property or dwelling not used as a
primary dwelling, or without water or electric service, or other utilities in
service.
   ALTERED. Any cat or dog over the age of six months which has been neutered
or spayed.
   ANIMAL. Any warm blooded animal.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The individual employed, contracted with, or
appointed by the city for the purposes of aiding the enforcement of this
chapter or any other law relating to the licenser of animals, control of
animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals, and includes any state or local
law enforcement officer or other employee whose duties, in whole or in part,
include assignments that involve seizure and impoundment of any animal.
   ANIMAL SHELTER or MUNICIPAL POUND. Any premises formally designated by the
City Council for the purposes of impounding and caring for animals held under
the authority of this chapter, regardless of whether or not said premises are
within or out of the municipality’s corporate boundaries, and regardless of
whether or not said premises are under actual municipal ownership or provided
under a contractual arrangement between the city and private owner(s).
   AT LARGE or RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal which is off the property of its
owner or the leased premises of the dog’s owner and not under the control of a
competent person. As applied to dogs AT LARGE or RUNNING AT LARGE means a dog
which is off the owner’s property or leased premises and such dog is not
restrained by means of a leash under the control of a competent person. A dog
entering upon the property of another person without that person’s permission
shall be termed RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal within an automobile or other
vehicle of its owner or owner’s agent shall not be deemed AT LARGE or RUNNING
AT LARGE.
   CAT. Any Felis catus, excluding any large cats (lions, tigers and the like)
and hybrids.
   CONFINEMENT. To secure an animal in a house or by a fence within the
boundaries of the owner’s, leaseholder’s or keeper’s property (such as, house,
fenced yard).
   CRUELTY. To endanger the life, health or safety of an animal.
   CURRENTLY VACCINATED. Properly immunized by or under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian with an anti-rabies vaccine licensed and approved by the
United State Department of Agriculture for use in that animal species, or
meeting conditions specified in the State Department of Health Zoo Notice
Disease Control Rules, O.A.C. Title 310, Chapter 599 § 310:599-3-8. Vaccine
must have been given at appropriate time intervals(s) for the age of the animal
and type of vaccine administered.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has inflicted injury on a human being without
provocation on public or private property, or has been previously found to be
potentially dangerous, the owner having received notice of such by the Animal
Control Officer, in writing, and the dog thereafter aggressively bites, attacks
or endangers the safety of humans.
   DOG. Any Canis familiaris, excluding hybrids.
   DOMESTIC BIRDS. Canaries, parrots, parakeets, mean birds, peacocks, birds of
paradise or other birds tamed to the household or pertaining thereto.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any animal that has been bitten by or exposed to any
other animal known to have been infected with rabies.
   FIRST PARTY OWNERSHIP. A situation where the owner of a biting animal is
directly related to the bite victim, that is parent-child, sibling-sibling,
grandparent-child; or when the legal residence of the animal owner and the bite
victim are the same.
   FOWL. All animals that are included in the zoological class aves, which
shall include, but not limited to, chickens, guineas, geese, ducks, turkeys and
pigeons.
   HARBORING. Allowing any animal to habitually remain, or be fed, on premises
under his or her control.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. The regulation and supervision by a competent person so
that an animal is unable to run or get loose at will.
   IMPOUNDMENT. Placing an animal in the animal control vehicle or unit or
holding an animal in custody at the animal control shelter.
   KEEPER. Any person acting in the capacity of the owner, at the owner’s
request, who is responsible for the care, welfare and maintenance of the
animal.
   KENNEL. Any place where any combination of eight or more dogs or cats more
than six months of age are sheltered, fed and watered.
   LARGE ANIMALS. Horses, mules, donkeys cattle, goats, sheep or any other
animal of similar size or stature.
   LIVESTOCK. All animals, other than dogs, cats, small caged birds or small
aquatic or amphibian animals.
   NEUTER. To render a male dog or cat unable to reproduce.
   NUISANCE. The conduct or behavior of any small or large animal, cat or dog
which molest passersby or passing vehicles; attacks other animals, damages
private or public property; barks, whines, howls, crows or makes other noises
in an excessive continuous fashion which annoys the comfort, repose, health or
safety of the people in the community; unconfined in season; or a vicious
animal not confined as required by this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing,
harboring, keeping, having an interest in or having control or custody of an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated animal remains, or
to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more, shall be
deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal and thereby considered to be the
OWNER of said animal.
   PERMIT. The permit issued by the animal control division.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure.
   PROVOKE or PROVOCATION. With respect to an attack by an animal, that the
animal was hit, kicked or struck by a person with an object or part of a
person’s body or that any part of the animal’s body is pulled, pinched or
squeezed by a person.
   RABIES. Acute disease of humans and warm-blooded mammals caused by the
rabies virus (genus Lyssavirus) that affects the central nervous system and is
almost always fatal.
   RAT-PROOF. The state of being constructed so as to effectively prevent entry
of rats.
   RELEASING AGENCY. Any pound (municipal or otherwise), shelter or humane
society organization, whether public or private.
   RESTRAINT. That an animal is controlled by leash or tether, either of which
shall not exceed six feet in length, by a competent person or within any
vehicle, trailer or other conveyance being driven, pulled or parked on the
street, or confined within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
   RUN. An area used to confine an animal that is no less than 100 square feet
and is a least five feet in width.
   SANITARY. Any condition of good odor and cleanliness, which precludes the
probability of disease transmission and insect breeding, and which preserves
the health of the city.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that reasonably results in
hospitalization or medical treatment.
   SMALL ANIMALS. Rabbits hares, chinchillas, turkeys, fowl, pigeons, (except
homing pigeons) miniature pigs, as further defined herein, for household pets,
or any other animal or similar size or stature; for the purpose of this
definition, miniature pig has a maximum weight of 125 pounds and maximum height
of 22 inches as established by the American Miniature Pig Association (AMPA).
   SPAY. To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat in order to render the
animal unable to reproduce.
   SPECIAL HANDLER’S LICENSE. A license issued to a person who has four or more
but less than eight dogs or cats or a combination thereof where such dogs or
cats or combination thereof are sheltered, fed and watered in or on the
premises, property or residence of the person who has such a license.
   STERILIZATION. To spay or neuter a dog or cat.
   TRANSFER. To convey or change ownership from one person to another with or
without the exchange of money or other consideration.
   UNALTERED. Any cat or dog over the age of six months which has not been
neutered or spayed.
   VACCINATION. An injection of the United State Department of Agriculture
approved rabies vaccine administered every 12 calendar months by a licensed
veterinarian.
   VICIOUS DOG OR ANIMAL. Any dog or animal which has bitten or attempted to
bite and person without undue provocation, or which attacks, barks, growls at
and acts as if it intended to attack or bite, any person or persons when not
unduly provoked.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which can normally be found living in a naturally
wild state and is not ordinarily tamed or domesticated the term shall include
such animals (herein above described) which may be owned by a circus or wild
animal show or exhibition.
§ 3-2 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAWS TO CUSTODY OF ANIMALS.
   No person owning or having in his or her custody any animal shall violate
any laws, rules or regulations of the state applicable thereto. Where the
provisions of the rules and regulations of the state are less restrictive than
the provisions of this chapter, the latter shall govern.
§ 3-3 INJURING, POISONING OR TRAPPING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   1.   A person who accidentally or otherwise strikes an animal with an
automobile and injures it shall notify the animal control division or law
enforcement agency and shall not leave the scene without rendering aid and
assistance in the care of such animal.
   2.   No person shall expose or give to any animal any poisonous substance,
whether mixed with food or not. This provision, however, does not apply to the
eradication or population control of certain species of rodents.
   3.   No person shall set or expose an open jaw trap, leg hold strap or any
type trap which would likely cause physical harm or injury to any animal. This
provision shall not apply to persons who are licensed by the state to trap
animals as provided in 29 O.S. § 4-119.
§ 3-4 DISEASED ANIMALS; INJURED OR SICK ANIMALS.
   1.   Every person owning or having any animal under his or her charge within
the city, which he or she knows or suspects to be sick or injured, shall
isolate the animal from other animals and shall obtain treatment for such
animal by a licensed veterinarian with 24 hours.
   2.   Any animal which comes into possession of the city at the animal
shelter which is injured or sick shall be humanely euthanized by trained
personnel without waiting for the expiration of the period in which such animal
may be reclaimed by its owner, or before the end of the period in which the
animal may be place for adoption; provided, however, that before such sick or
injured animal is euthanized, the Animal Control Officer shall contact the
owner, if known, of such animal to determine the disposition of such animal. If
the owner indicates that the animal will be reclaimed but fails to reclaim the
animal within 24 hours of such notification, or if the owner of such animal is
not known, the sick or injured animal shall be euthanized by trained personnel.
The Animal Control Officer shall keep a record of such animal, to include breed
and sex of the animal, when the animal came into possession of the city, the
type of injury or sickness of such animals, the date the animal was destroyed
and any other information relevant to the health, condition and description of
the animal.
§ 3-5 PROPERTY OWNER MAY IMPOUND ANIMAL.
   Any person who finds an animal on his or her property to his or her injury
or annoyance may:
   1.   Remove such animal to an animal shelter, public or private, except that
estray animals will be handled as provided by state law; or
   2.   Retain possession of such animal and, within 24 hours, notify the
Animal Control Officer or other appropriate personnel of this custody, giving a
description of the animal and other’s name, if known. Removal of the animal
from property shall be done in such a manner so as not to cause injury to the
animal.
§ 3-6 NOISY ANIMALS; COMPLAINT PROCEDURE FOR ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB IN VIOLATION
OF CODE.
   1.   No person shall keep any animal which causes frequent or long-continued
noise so as to disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity. Any
violations of this section is declared to be a nuisance and as such may be
abated.
   2.   Any person with knowledge thereof of such nuisance may file a complaint
in the Municipal Court against the owner or keeper of an animal which disturbs
the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity or which is in violation of
this chapter. If the court finds that animal is a nuisance or in violation of
this chapter, the court may order the owner or keeper to prevent and abate the
nuisance, or order the animal impounded with the owner or keeper to pay
impoundment costs, or order punishment as provided in
Chapter 12 (Nuisances) of this code of ordinances.
§ 3-7 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED; ANIMAL FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   1.   Pursuant to 21 O.S. §§ 1682, 1683, no person shall keep, nor shall any
permit be issued for any gamecocks or fighting cocks.
   2.   No person shall permit or conduct any dog fights, cock fights or other
combat between animals, or between animal and human.
§ 3-8 KEEPING OF WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, a WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL means an
animal which is usually not a domestic animal and which can normally be found
in the wild state, or which has not been deemed by the State Department of
Health to have established rabies quarantine period, including, but not limited
to, lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, wolves, foxes, lynxes or any hybrid of
like animals, alligators, crocodiles, apes, foxes, elephants rhinoceroses,
bears, all forms of poisonous snakes, lynxes, raccoons, skunks, monkeys,
prairie dogs, bats and like animals.
   2.   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any wild or exotic animal in the city
limits as a pet or for display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously
or for a fee, except as provided in this section, and as may be licensed, by
the State Wildlife Department pertaining to wildlife rehabilitators.
   3.   This section shall not apply to zoological parks or zoos, performing
animal exhibitions, circuses, educational or medical institutions.
      a.   All wild animals owned by a circus or traveling animal show shall
not be permitted within the corporate limits of the city, unless the owner or
person in charge of said circus or show, or his or her designated
representative, has first obtained a license for said animals from the city.
      b.   Said license shall be issued upon submission of a written, signed
statement by the applicant that he or she has provided ample safeguards to
protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      c.   To cover issuance and enforcement costs, the applicant shall pay a
fee of $20 to the city; the written receipt may constitute the license.
      d.   Said license, so issued, shall be valid for a term of one month.
§ 3-9 VACCINATION REQUIRED; CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION; IMPOUND FEE.
   1.   The city’s power to regulate dogs is provided in 11 O.S. § 22-115. No
person shall own, keep or harbor any dog, cat or ferret within the city limits
unless such dog or cat six months of age or older is vaccinated for rabies by a
licensed veterinarian.
   2.   Any person who adopts a dog, cat or ferret from the city’s animal
shelter shall have such animal vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian within two
weeks from the date of adoption or within two weeks after the animal reaches
the age of six months.
   3.   It shall be unlawful to not abide by the municipal vaccination
requirements after 15 days of residency.
§ 3-10 TAG AND COLLAR REQUIRED, REMOVAL, NON-TRANSFERABLE, INSPECTION, OFFENSE.
   1.   The owners of all dogs and cats are required to have the dogs or cats
vaccinated against rabies with an approved vaccine administered by a licensed
veterinarian. The veterinarian shall issue the owner of the animal a
vaccination certificate, and such owner shall retain such certificate until the
vaccination is renewed. At the time of vaccination, a metal tag shall be issued
by the veterinarian showing the name of the veterinarian, the tag number and
the year of issuance.
   2.   Every owner of a dog or cat is required to affix the tag issued by a
licensed veterinarian for rabies vaccination to a collar to be worn by the dog
or cat at all times while off the premises. It shall be unlawful for any person
other than the owner to remove the collar from the dog or cat.
   3.   No person shall use a rabies tag or veterinarian certificate or receipt
for any dog or cat other than for that dog or cat to which the rabies tag,
veterinarian certificate or receipt was issued.
   4.   A City Animal Control Officer or any police officer may at any
reasonable time require an owner to provide proof of rabies vaccination, on any
animals provided reasonable cause has been established that would require an
Animal Control Officer or police officer to make contact with the owner, such
as response to a complaint, suspected animal abuse, running at large or bite
incident. Any owner not possessing a current rabies tag, certificate or receipt
for such dog or cat over six months of age may be cited by the Animal Control
Officer or police officer.
§ 3-11 CONTROL OF ANIMALS REQUIRED, AT LARGE, ARREST, ESTRAYS, CONFINEMENT IN
SEASON.
   1.   It is unlawful for any owner or keeper to:
      a.   Fail to prevent any animal from running at large within the city;
      b.   Perform, do or carry out any inhumane or cruel treatment against any
animal;
      c.   Keep, possess, own, control, maintain, use or otherwise exercise
dominion over any animal or animals which by reason of noise, odor or sanitary
conditions become offensive to a reasonable and prudent person of ordinary
tastes and sensibilities, or which constitute or become a health hazard as
determined by the Animal Control Officer; or
      d.   Permit any animal to run at large. Any animal found running at large
within the city shall be either:
         (1)   Impounded by the Animal Control Officer, and such animal shall
be kept at the animal shelter. Impounded animals may be reclaimed as provided
in
§ 3-15; or
         (2)   At the judgment of the Animal Control Officer, an animal found
at large which is licensed by the city, except a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog, as those terms are defined in this chapter, may be released to
the custody of the owner or keeper of the animal which has been impounded.
   2.   When a police officer effects an arrest of a person who is in
possession of or caring for an animal and no responsible person of at least 18
years of age is present at the scene to take care of the animal, the animal
will be impounded for the welfare of the animal. The animal will be impounded
at the animal shelter until the proper disposition of the animal can be
determined.
   3.   An Animal Control Officer is authorized to trap or impound any animal
observed to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or for
humane reasons pursuant to
§ 3-17. An Animal Control Officer may, upon exigent and life threatening
emergency circumstances, enter upon the premises of the owner or other private
premises to take such animal into custody, once it has been established that
the occupant is not home.
   4.   No impounded animal shall be returned to its owner or keeper until the
animal impoundment and boarding fees are paid.
   5.   Estray animals shall be treated in the manner provided in 4 O.S. § 4-
85.10.
§ 3-12 DOG OR CAT RUNNING AT LARGE: OWNERS CITED.
   Any dog or cat that is not confined as defined in
§ 3-1 of this code, and not under the actual physical control of its owner or
keeper, will be presumed to be running at large. In addition to impoundment,
the Animal Control Officer may, at his or her discretion, cite the owner of
such dog or cat to appear in Municipal Court to answer charges for violation of
this chapter. The fine imposed by the Municipal Court for a dog or cat running
at large shall not be less than $100 for the first offense, $150 for the second
offense and $200 for the third and any consecutive offenses.
§ 3-13 DOGS PROHIBITED FROM CITY PARK TRAILS.
   1.   Dogs are prohibited running at large on the jogging trails or sidewalks
at any city park which has an established jogging trail or sidewalk except by
proper resolution by the City Council. Exception may be made to this provision
for sanctioned and approved city wide public events on a temporary basis. Dogs
on a leash are allowed to accompany their owner or keeper on the jogging trails
or sidewalks in the city park.
   2.   When dogs are found running at large on or near the jogging trails or
sidewalks at any city park as prohibited by subsection 1. above and their
owners or keepers are present, such dogs may but not be impounded; provided,
however, the Animal Control Officer shall ensure the dogs are removed from the
jogging trails or sidewalks and may, at his or her discretion, cite the owner
of such dog to appear in Municipal Court to answer for violation of this or the
preceding section.
   3.   The preceding provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any
certified working dogs for the disabled or dogs on a leash accompanied by their
owner or keeper, which shall be deemed exempt herefrom.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 3-14 IMPOUNDED, RECORDS, DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS, ADOPTION, LICENSING OF DOGS
AND CATS.
   1.   Any dog or cat or other small animal found running at large and
impounded in the animal shelter shall be there confined in a humane manner.
Animals not claimed by their owner before the expiration of 72 hours, exclusive
of Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays, shall become the property of the city
and shall be disposed of at the discretion of the city.
   2.   The Animal Control Officer, upon receiving any animal for impoundment,
shall record or cause to be recorded the description, breed, color and sex of
the animal and whether or not it is licensed, and the date and time of
impoundment. If the animal is licensed or if the owner or keeper is known, the
officer shall enter the name and address of the owner or keeper, or the city
license or rabies tag number as maybe shown on the records or identification
attached to the animal. The Animal Control Officer shall telephone the owner or
keeper, or shall post written notice at the address shown on city records to be
that of the owner or keeper, to notify the owner or keeper that unless
reclaimed in accordance with this code within 72 hours after impoundment,
Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays excluded, the animal will be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of by the city. Attempts to contact the owner or keeper will
be recorded on the reverse of the impoundment record.
   3.   At the end of the period prescribed in this section, animals that have
not been reclaimed by the owner or keeper thereof shall be destroyed, adopted
or otherwise disposed of in a humane manner and as required by law. Any animal
which is eligible for adoption may be adopted after the 72-hour period. If in
the judgment of the Animal Control Officer, an animal has been well maintained,
the animal may be retained for an additional 72 hours for the purpose of
adoption, or transferred to an animal adoption agency or national breed rescue
organization.
   4.   Before any dog or cat is released for adoption from the city’s animal
shelter, such dog or cat shall be issued a license, as provided for in this
chapter, if such dog or cat has not been previously licensed.
   5.   No animal may be adopted from the animal shelter by any employee of the
shelter for any reason, nor may any employee of the shelter adopt, give away or
sell any animal from the shelter except in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   6.   There is hereby established a grace period of seven days beginning on
the day of adoption and ending at the close of business of the seventh day
thereafter, during which period an animal adopted from the city’s animal
shelter may be returned to the animal shelter for a refund of the adoption fee,
spay/neuter deposit, vaccination deposit and license fee or, at the option of
adopting party, a replacement animal, conditioned solely upon the presentation
of written certification of a licensed veterinarian that the adopted animal is
in poor health.
   7.   The City Council, by duly enacted resolution, may designate certain
days in which animals eligible for adoption may be adopted from the city’s
animal shelter without the payment of the adoption fee as required in the fee
schedule; provided, however, that the other provisions of this chapter shall
apply to the animals adopted under this subsection 7.
   8.   There is hereby established a “no questions asked” period of three
days, from the date of the adoption, whereby and adopted animal can be
returned, for any reason, to the animal shelter, and a full refund of fees and
any deposits received.
Statutory reference:
   Destruction of animals, sodium pentobarbital and other approved methods, see
4 O.S. Chapter 15, §§ 501 to 508
§ 3-15 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   1.   Except as hereinafter provided, licensed and vaccinated animals
impounded under the provision of this chapter may be reclaimed by the owner or
keeper upon payment of the impoundment fee as provided in the fee schedule and
the animal shelter boarding fee. The owner or keeper has 72 hours after
impoundment, Saturdays, Sunday and city holidays excluded, to redeem the
animal. If the owner or keeper has not made arrangements to redeem the animal
within this period, the animal becomes the property of the city and may be
disposed of as provided in this chapter.
   2.   No unlicensed dog or cat may be released from the impoundment to its
owner or keeper until such dog or cat is issued a license, as provided in this
chapter, and after payment of the fee as provided in the fee schedule.
   3.   No unvaccinated animal may be released from impoundment unless the
owner or keeper signs an agreement to have animal vaccinated against rabies
within two weeks of release, or from the time the animal reaches the age of six
months, by a licensed veterinarian and return documented proof of such to the
Animal Control Officer on or before the contract compliance date. Failure to
comply with the agreement shall be unlawful, and may result in the issuance of
a citation for violation of the provisions of this chapter. The owner or keeper
shall also be required to deposit funds with the animal shelter to ensure the
animal is vaccinated. The amount of the deposit shall be set in the fee
schedule, and will be refunded to the owner upon presentation of the documented
proof on or before the contract compliance date.
   4.   The owner or keeper of an unaltered dog or cat impounded under the
provisions of this chapter may redeem their pet upon payment of the required
fees. The owner or keeper shall also be required to deposit funds with the
animal shelter in an amount equal to the sterilization deposit, as established
in the fee schedule, that will be refunded to the owner upon presentation of a
written statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that the animal has been
neutered or spayed. The statement must be presented within 14 days from the
redemption date in order to receive the refund. If the dog or cat has been
impounded for a third or subsequent time, the animal may not be released from
the animal shelter unless the owner or keeper signs an agreement, in addition
to making the deposit, to have the animal neutered or spayed within two weeks
of release. If the animal is less than six months old at the time of
redemption, the statement must be presented within 14 days from the date the
animal attains the age of six months. Failure to comply with the agreement
shall be unlawful, and may result in the issuance of a citation for violation
of the provisions of the chapter.
   5.   Upon presentation of a written report from a licensed veterinarian
stating that the life or health of an unaltered dog or cat may be jeopardized
by surgery, the Animal Control Officer shall grant a 30-day extension of the
period within which the spay or neuter surgery would otherwise be required.
Further extensions may be granted upon additional veterinary reports stating
the necessity for such extensions.
   6.   The vaccination and sterilization deposits required above will be
retained by the city, and a refund of the deposits will be made upon
presentation of a written statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that the
animal has been vaccinated and/or neutered or spayed. If the animal has not
been vaccinated and/or altered within the time specified in the release
agreement, the deposit will be forfeited to the city. Deposits forfeited to the
city shall be placed in a separate account, which shall be an interest bearing
account if feasible, and such forfeited funds shall be used for promoting
programs which educate the public on the need for vaccinating and altering
animals, and responsible pet ownership.
§ 3-16 SPAYING OR NEUTERING AS CONDITION FOR RELEASE OF DOGS AND CATS:
EXTENSION OF TIME; SPAYING NEUTERING REQUIRED; STERILIZATION AGREEMENT;
DEPOSITS REQUIRED: USE OR FORFEITED DEPOSITS: PENALTY.
   1.   No dog or cat may be released for adoption from the animal shelter
unless said animal has been surgically spayed or neutered; or unless the
adopting party signs an agreement to have the animal altered, and deposits
funds with the animal shelter to ensure that the adopted animal will be spayed
or neutered. The amount of the deposit required shall be set in the fee
schedule.
   2.   Before any dog or cat is released for adoption from the animal shelter,
the adopting party shall sign a sterilization agreement which will
substantially conform with the agreement shown in 4 O.S. §499.4. Failure to
comply with the agreement shall be unlawful, and may result in the issuance of
citation for violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   3.   Upon presentation of a written report from a licensed veterinarian
stating that the life or health of an adopted animal may be jeopardized by
surgery, the Animal Control Officer shall grant a 30-day extension of the
period within which the spay or neuter surgery would otherwise be required.
Further extensions may be granted upon additional veterinary reports stating
the necessity for such extensions.
   4.   Each person who adopts an unaltered dog or cat from the animal shelter
shall have such animal spayed or neutered by a licensed veterinarian within two
weeks from the date the animal attains the age of six months.
§ 3-17 KEEPING OF ANIMALS; MISTREATMENT, ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED; CARE;
RESTRAINING OF DOGS PROHIBITED; EXERCISE AREA FOR DOGS.
   1.   All dogs, cats and other small animals kept as house pets within the
city limits shall be housed, fed and protected from the weather in such a
manner as not to create a nuisance.
   2.   No person shall willfully or maliciously:
      a.   Torture, cruelly beat, injure, maim, mutilate or unjustly destroy or
kill any animal belonging to himself, herself or to another;
      b.   Deprive any animal of food, drink or shelter;
      c.   Unjustly administer any poison or noxious drug or substance to any
animal;
      d.   Unjustly expose any drug or substance with the intent that the same
shall be taken by an animal, whether such animal be the property of that owner
or another person; or
      e.   Cause any other person to do any of the above acts.
   3.   If an animal is found by the Animal Control Officer to be in one of the
above described conditions, the officer may issue a citation to the offender or
shall issue notice to the offender warning him or her that if the animal’s
condition is not improved, a citation will be issued. If the animal control
office determines that confined animal’s life is in immediate danger or has
been abandoned or a confined animal is dead, the Animal Control Officer may,
upon exigent and life threatening emergency circumstances, enter upon the
premises of the owner or other private premises to take such animal into
custody, once it has been established that the occupant is not home. In all
other than exigent and life threatening emergency circumstances, the Animal
Control Officer shall obtain a Municipal Court order directing such animal to
be seized before such animal is seized. The Animal Control Officer will leave a
notice for the owner advising why the animal was seized and where the animal
was taken. Seizure of an animal will be accompanied by issuance of a citation
(s) when there is probable cause to believe the seizure of the animal was
necessary as a result of commission of an offense.
   4.   No dogs, cats or other small animals shall be confined within or on a
motor vehicle under such conditions as may endanger the health or well-being of
the animal, including, but not limited to, dangerous temperature, lack of food
or water.
   5.   No person shall abandon or cause to be abandoned any dogs, cats or any
other type of animals.
   6.   Owners and keepers of dogs, cats and other small animals shall provide
food, shelter and medical attention to such animals, including, but not limited
to, the following:
      a.   Sufficient wholesome food that is nutritious for the species;
      b.   Fresh, potable drinking water;
      c.   Medical attention to relieve such animals from suffering;
      d.   Provide shade from the sun; and
      e.   Shelter to allow the animal to remain dry and protected from the
elements. Such shelter shall be fully enclosed on three sides, roofed and have
a solid floor. The entrance to the shelter shall be flexible to allow the
animal’s entry and exit, and sturdy enough to block entry of wind or rain. The
shelter shall be small enough to retain the animal’s body heat and large enough
to allow the animal to stand and turn comfortably. The enclosure shall be
structurally sound and in good repair.
   7.   In addition to the forgoing provisions of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously overdrive, overload,
torture, destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate, any
animal in subjugation or captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging
to himself or herself or another, or deprive any such animal of necessary food,
drink or shelter, or shall cause, procure or permit any such animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or
injured, maimed or mutilated, or deprived of necessary food, drink or shelter,
or willfully set on foot, instigate, engage in or in any way further act of
cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty. Any police
officer or Animal Control Officer finding an animal so maltreated or abused
shall cause the same to be taken care of, and the charges therefore shall be a
lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a pledge or a lien.
   8.   No person shall, at any time, fasten, chain or tie any dog or cause
such dog to be fastened, chained or tied while such dog is on the dog owner’s
property or on the property of the dog owner’s landlord.
   9.   Any owner, keeper or property owner allowing tenants to have dogs on
their premises, must provide an adequate enclosed space for exercise based on a
dimension of at least 100 square feet; provided, further that where dogs are
kept or housed on property without fenced yard, the owner, keeper or property
owner shall provide an enclosure or run for such dogs meting the 100 square
feet dimension. Such enclosure shall be constructed of chain link or similar
type materials with all four sides enclosed. The enclosure shall be of
sufficient height to prevent the dog from escaping from such enclosure. The top
of such enclosure shall be covered the materials to provide the dog with shade
and protection from the elements.
   10.   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
torture, torment, beat, kick, strike, mutilate, injure, disable or kill any dog
used by the City Police Department, whether or not said dog is, at the time,
off duty or on duty, in the performance of the functions or duties of said
Department, to interfere with, or meddle with, any such dog while used by said
Department or any officer or member of said Department.
(Ord. 14-6, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 3-18 REMOVAL OF DOG EXCREMENT.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog to be on
any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person, unless
such person has in his or her immediate possession a device for the removal of
the excrement and a depository for the transmission of excrement to a proper
receptacle located upon property owned or possessed by such person.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person in control of, causing or
permitting any dog to be on property, public or private, not owned or possessed
by such person, to fail to remove excrement left by such dog to a proper
receptacle located on property owned or possessed by such person.
   3.   It shall be unlawful any person owning or harboring a dog to allow an
unreasonable accumulation of dog excrement upon property owned or possessed by
such person. An UNREASONABLE ACCUMULATION is defined as an accumulation which
omits an offensive odor which can be detected from adjacent property, which is
unsightly or offensive to the sight or which creates a public health risk.
§ 3-19 DEAD ANIMAL PICKUP; FEES.
   1.   Dead animals may be picked up from residences by the Animal Control
Officer upon payment of a pickup fee as provided in the fee schedule.
   2.   Owners may drop off an animal at the animal shelter provided an
impoundment card is signed releasing custody of the animal to the city and upon
payment of drop off fee as provided in the fee schedule. Once the animal is
released to the city, the animal becomes the property of the city and may be
disposed of as provided in this chapter.
   3.   Sick, injured, aggressive or non-adoptable animals will be euthanized
at an owner’s request by trained personnel provided the owner signs an
impoundment card releasing custody of the animal to the city and upon payment
of the fee as provided in the fee schedule and upon proof veterinarian
treatment and/or recommendation.
§ 3-20 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of this chapter,
or who violates or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by any
Health Officer, Chief of Police or the Animal Control Officer, pursuant to this
chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in a sum not to exceed the limits established in this code of ordinances, and
shall be subject to revocation of any licenses or operating permit issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Every day’s violation of any
provisions of this chapter or of such order of the Health Officer, Animal
Control Officer or Chief of Police shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 3-21 BREAKING POUND.
   No unauthorized person shall break open, or attempt to break open, the pound
or take or let out any animal therefrom, or make an attempt to take from any
officer or employee of the city, any animal taken into custody as provided by
this code of ordinances, or in any manner interfere with or hinder such officer
or employee in the discharge of his or her duties relating to the taking into
custody and impounding of animals, as provided in this code of ordinances.
§ 3-22 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to keep any animals
within the corporate limits of the city, except under those conditions and
provisions which may hereinafter specifically regulate the keeping of certain
type of animals.
   2.   If no specific provisions are listed in this code of ordinances for
keeping of a particular type of animal, said animal type shall not be kept at
all within the corporate limits of the city.
   3.   No swine shall be kept within the corporate limits of the city, with
the exception of FFA and/or 4/H projects kept on public school property, or in
appropriately-zoned areas.
   4.   Every structure wherein any authorized animal is kept within the
corporate limits of the city shall be constructed of such material and in such
a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and it shall be
maintained in said condition, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from
objectionable odors, in order to avert the creation of a nuisance to the public
health. Every such structure, if located within 200 feet of any tenement,
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or residence (other than
occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal is
kept) shall be provided with a water-tight and fly-tight receptacle for manure
of such as hold all accumulations of manure. Such receptacle shall be emptied
sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a
nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all times, except when open during the
deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to
accumulate on such premises except in such receptacle.
   5.   The keeping of bees within the corporate limits of the city shall be
permitted only in those areas zoned for agricultural or large-lot (over two
acres) residential uses, and in accordance with zoning ordinance provisions. No
licenses or permit shall be required to keep or raise bees.
   6.   Consistent with provisions of the city’s adopted zoning ordinance, the
keeping or raising of horse, sheep, cattle and chickens (or similar fowl),
shall be permitted throughout the city as long as the premises are maintained
in accordance with the provisions of subsection 4. above and State and County
Health Department requirements and standards. Additional restrictions on the
raising and/or keeping of animals may be imposed by the zoning ordinance
without conflicting with this subsection 6.
   7.   The raising of parakeets and/or other small birds or similar fowl shall
be permitted within the city, without license or permit requirements, subject
to the following provisions:
      a.   All activities associated with the raising of parakeets shall be
completely enclosed and out of the public view;
      b.   Premises utilized for the raising of parakeets shall be maintained
in accordance with subsection 4. above; and
      c.   All requirements of any adopted zoning ordinance shall be met.
   8.   Persons living within the city’s corporate limits who are conducting
farming and/or ranching operations on tracts of land five acres or larger may
keep and maintain such animals as may be required or useful in their operation,
provided; that such sanitary requirements as may be detailed this section and
chapter shall be complied with at all times, regardless of size of the tract of
land involved.
§§ 3-23 NUISANCE ANIMALS AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   1.   Live traps available for use by the public through the city’s animal
control are authorized to assist in the capture of domestic and non-domestic
animals constituting a nuisance. A deposit as stipulated in the fee schedule
shall be required and will be reimbursed to those persons issued traps provided
the trap is returned to the animal control office in operable condition. Animal
control will only collect traps that they have provided.
   2.   Any animal trapped in a live trap shall be reported immediately to
animal control for removal. Any person leaving an animal in a trap which
results in, or contributes to, distress, dehydration or the death of the animal
may be cited for violation(s) as set forth in this code.
   3.   The animal control division shall be authorized to capture and abate
approved non-domesticated animals. These animals include rabbits, skunks,
raccoons, possums, and armadillos.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 1-14-2025)
§§ 3-24 THROUGH 3-34 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 3-35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The city’s animal control division acting alone or
in concert with other local governmental units for enforcement of the animal
control laws of the city and state for the protection of the general public and
the welfare of animals.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      a.   Any dog that:
         (1)   Has inflicted severe injury on a human or another animal without
provocation on public or private property; or
         (2)   Endangers the safety of humans or other animals by aggressively
attacking in an apparent attempt to inflict severe injury.
      b.   DANGEROUS DOG does not include a dog certified by the state and used
for law enforcement purposes.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation or organization, possessing, harboring,
keeping, having an interest in, or having control or custody of an animal. The
occupant of any premises on which a domesticated animal remains, or to which
customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more, shall be deemed to
harboring or keeping the animal.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A DANGEROUS DOG. A securely enclosed and locked pen or
structure with at least 150 square feet of space for each dog kept therein
which is over six months of age, and which is suitable to prevent the entry of
children and designated to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or
structure shall have secure sides and a secure top and shall also provide
protection from the elements for the dog. The enclosure will conspicuously
display a warning sign that there is a dangerous dog on the property.
   PROVOKE or PROVOCATION. With respect to an attack by an animal, that the
animal was hit, kicked, agitated by teasing or struck by a person with an
object or part of a person’s body or that any part of the animal’s body is
pulled, pinched or squeezed by a person.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that reasonable results in
hospitalization or medical treatment.
§ 3-36 UNLAWFUL TO OWN DANGEROUS DOG WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   1.   It is unlawful for an owner to have a dangerous dog in the city without
the certificate of registration issued as provided in this section. This
section shall not apply to dogs by law enforcement officials for police work.
   2.   The animal control division shall issue a certificate of registration
to the owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents to the Animal Control
Officer sufficient evidence of:
      a.   A properly locked enclosure to confine a dangerous dog and the
posting of the premises with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a
dangerous dog on the property. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously
display a sign with a warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a
dangerous dog; and
      b.   A policy of liability insurance, such as homeowner’s insurance, or
surety bond, issued by an insurer qualified under O.S. Title 36 in the amount
of no less than $50,000 insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted
by the dangerous dog.
§ 3-37 UNLAWFUL FOR DANGEROUS DOGS TO BE OUTSIDE PROPER ENCLOSURE UNLESS
MUZZLED AND RESTRAINED.
   1.   It is unlawful for an owner of a dangerous dog to permit the dog to be
outside the proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash and under physical restraining of a responsible
person of at least 18 years of age. The muzzle shall be in a manner that will
not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration but
shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
   2.   Dogs shall not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury or damage
was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing an unlawful presence
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or was tormenting, abusing
or assaulting the dog or has, in the past been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime under any federal, state or local law. For the purpose of this
article, a person is considered to be LAWFULLY PRESENT UPON THE PROPERTY OF A
DOG OWNER when he or she is on such property in the performance of any duty
imposed upon him or her by the laws of the state, or by the laws of the United
States, or the postal regulations of the United States, or when reading meters,
or making repairs to any public utility or service located on the premises, or
when working on said property at the request of the owner or any tenant having
a lease upon any portion of said property, or when on such property upon the
invitation, expressed or implied, of the owner or lessee of such property.
   3.   No person shall willfully harm, including torture, torment, beat,
mutilate, injure, disable or otherwise mistreat or kill a service dog that used
for the benefit of any handicapped person in the state.
   4.   No person shall willfully interfere with the lawful performance of any
service dog used for the benefit of any handicapped person in the state.
   5.   Any person who encourages, permits or allows a dog owned or kept by
such person to fight, injure, disable or kill a service dog used for the
benefit of an handicapped person in this state, or to interfere with a service
in any place where the service dog resides or is performing, shall upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. For the purpose of this subsection 5.,
when a person informs the owner of a dog that the dog is a threat and requests
the owner to control or contain the dog and owner disregards the request, the
owner shall be deemed to have encouraged, permitted or allowed any resulting
injury to or interference with a service dog.
§ 3-38 CONFISCATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS AUTHORIZED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS;
PENALTY.
   Any dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an Animal Control
Officer if, following a hearing by the Municipal Judge, the Judge determines
that:
   1.   The dog is not validly registered under
§ 3-36; or
   2.   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner, or outside the proper
enclosure and not under physical restraint of the responsible person.
§ 3-39 PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION OF ARTICLE 2.
   It is the purpose of this article to provide additional and cumulative
remedies to control dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs in the city.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abridge or alter rights of action
or remedies of victims under the common law or statutory law, criminal or
civil.
§ 3-40 COURT PROCEEDING AGAINST VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS.
   1.   The owner of any dog alleged to be dangerous may be charged in
Municipal Court after a complaint has been duly filed therein by any person
having knowledge thereof. If the court finds that the dog has attacked human
beings or animals without provocation, then the court shall have the authority
to order the dog kept muzzled, confined, destroyed or delivered to the animal
shelter for further action, as provided in
Chapter 13 of this code of ordinances.
   2.   The Animal Control Officer, his or her designated representative or any
law enforcement officer of the city may kill any dog running loose within the
corporate limits of the city which is determined by the Animal Control Officer
or law enforcement officer to be vicious or crazed and a threat to the public
health and safety.
§§ 3-41 THROUGH 3-55 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: RABIES AND ANIMAL BITES
§ 3-56 ANIMAL BITES; RABIES EXAMINATION; QUARANTINE.
   1.   a.   Every animal, regardless of immunization status, that has bitten a
person shall be reported within four hours to the Animal Control Officer and,
except as otherwise provided herein, shall thereupon be securely quarantined at
a veterinarian hospital, within 24 hours from the time of the bite incident,
for a period of ten days from the date the person was bitten and shall not be
released from such quarantine except by permission of the veterinarian in
charge of the quarantined animal. Such quarantine will be at any veterinarian
hospital chosen by the owner or in the owner’s home if:
         (1)   Animal meets criteria of currently vaccinated against rabies and
meets the definition of first party ownership as defined in
§ 3-1; and
         (2)   Home quarantine site is approved by the Animal Control Officer.
      b.   Animal Control Officers will complete a bite report and submit it to
the Health Department. If the bite was a severe injury, the Health Department
shall make a determination of the disposition of the biting animal after
consultation with the victim’s physician, and based upon the risk of rabies in
the particular animal.
   2.   In the case of a stray animal, or in the case of a dog or cat whose
ownership is not known after diligent and reasonable efforts have been made by
an Animal Control Officer to determine ownership of such animal, such animal,
dog or cat will be impounded immediately. In the case of unclaimed dog or cat
that has bitten a person, such animals should be humanely euthanized and taken
to a veterinarian for removal of the head for submittal to the State Department
of Health for rabies examination. The final decision for animal destruction,
quarantine or other disposition of any animal other than a dog, cat or ferret
that bites a person, or otherwise potentially exposes a person to rabies shall
be determined by the Health Department as defined in
§ 3-2.
   3.   In the case of an animal that has bitten a person and ownership of such
animal is known to an Animal Control Officer but the owner refuses to have the
animal quarantined as required by subsection 1. above, the Animal Control
Officer will direct the owner of such animal to have the animal quarantined as
provided in subsection 1. above. If the owner refuses or does not have the
animal quarantined within 24 hours from the time of the bite incident, the
Animal Control Officer will issue a citation for failure to quarantine.
§ 3-57 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COST INCURRED.
   Payment of fees incurred for daily boarding, euthanasia, preparation and
transport of specimens for laboratory testing, or any other costs incurred to
comply with
§ 3-56 shall be the responsibility of the person or entity owning, keeping or
harboring the animal.
§ 3-58 KILLING OR REMOVING RABID ANIMAL PROHIBITED.
   1.   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any animal
suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting a human,
except as provided in this article, or remove the animal from the city limits
without written permission from the Animal Control Officer and/or health
department.
   2.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall upon demand be
surrendered to the Animal Control Officer.
   3.   The Health Department shall direct the disposition of any animal found
to be infected with rabies.
   4.   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
or destruction when demand is made by an Animal Control Officer or police
officer. Such refusal shall be deemed an offense.
§ 3-59 REPORTS OF BITE CASES; REPORT BY VETERINARIAN.
   1.   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other practitioner
to report to the Animal Control Officer the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
   2.   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the Animal
Control Officer his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or her to be
a rabid suspect.
§ 3-60 RECORDS.
   The Animal Control Officer shall keep or cause to be kept:
   1.   An accurate and detailed record of the licensing, impounding and
disposition of all live animals, fowl and domestic birds coming into his or her
custody and all dead dogs or cats picked up that possess rabies tags or city
license; and
   2.   An accurate and detailed record of all bite cases reported to the city,
with a complete report of the investigation of each case.
§ 3-61 EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE.
   1.   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed
veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals and animal shelters are
exempt from the provisions of this article, except where duties are expressly
stated.
   2.   The licensing requirements of this article shall not apply to any dog
or cat belonging to a nonresident of the city and kept within the city for no
longer than 30 days; provided all such dogs or cats shall at all times, while
in the city, be kept within a building, enclosure or vehicle, or be under
restraint by the owner.
§ 3-62 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall interfere with, or hinder, or molest any agent of the city
in the performance of any duty of such agent, or seek to release any animal in
the custody of the city or its agents, except as provided by law.
§§ 3-63 THROUGH 3-77 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: LICENSES AND PERMITS FOR KENNELS, KEEPING LARGE/SMALL ANIMALS
§ 3-78 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION FEE; RABIES VACCINATION; TERM; SANITARY
CONDITIONS: EXCEPTION.
   1.   No person shall own, maintain or operate a kennel within the city
unless such kennel is licensed as herein provided. Application for such license
shall be made to the city and shall state the name and address of the owner or
operator of the kennel with the street address and legal description of the
property upon which the kennel is located. Said kennel shall be in compliance
with any applicable portions of any present or future zoning ordinance adopted
by the city. Application for a renewal license must be received by the city at
least 60 days prior to the expiration of the license.
   2.   A kennel license fee shall be as provided in the fee schedule, and such
license shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place on the premises. A license
processing fee is also applicable as provided by this code.
   3.   The owner or operator of a kennel must show proof of rabies vaccination
on all animals over six months of age when applying for a license, as set forth
in
§ 3-9.
   4.   Licenses expire annually on December 31. There is no pro-ration of
license fees.
   5.   Any person maintaining a kennel, whether for profit or not, shall
maintain such kennel in a sanitary condition and shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter and any present or future zoning ordinance.
Nonconforming kennels shall be deemed a public nuisance.
Cross-reference:
   Zoning regulation, see
Chapter 15
§ 3-79 FACILITY STANDARDS, SPACE REQUIREMENTS, EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   All kennels within the city limits shall meet the following minimum
standards.
      a.   The kennel floor shall be made of concrete at least four inches
thick, with a smooth surface which shall have one-quarter inch of slope per
foot of fall for drainage. The drainage shall slope to a cleanout gutter, and
all drains shall be connected to the sanitary sewage line.
      b.   (1)   Each cage shall have sleeping quarters, a lounging area and
access to an exercise area with a minimum of 150 square feet. Sleeping quarters
for the animals shall be protected from the weather, and each lounging area
shall be individually enclosed by chain link material of at least ten-fourteen
(10-14) gauge, and shall have the following minimum dimensions for the number
of animals to be accommodated:
 
Width  Length  Height Accommodation For
4 feet 12 feet 6 feet Lounging area for: 1 large dog; 2 medium dogs; or 3 small
                      cats
4 feet 6 feet  3 feet Sleeping area for: 1 large dog; 2 medium dogs; or 3 small
                      dogs or cats
 
         (2)   However the cages for cats shall be completely enclosed.
      c.   For the purpose of this section only, SMALL-SIZE DOGS shall be
defined as any dog weighting 25 pounds or less; MEDIUM-SIZE DOGS shall be
defined as any dog weighing between 25 and 50 pounds; LARGE-SIZE DOGS shall be
defined as any dog weighing in excess of 50 pounds.
      d.   There shall be at least one cage which must be completely enclosed
to house female dogs in heat.
      e.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to kennels operated
and maintained by licensed veterinarians, to commercial pet stores where all
animals are kept within the establishment, nor to animal shelters.
      f.   No kennel or other establishment wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained closer than 40 feet to any tenement or apartment house, hotel,
restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational,
religious or hospital purposes or residence other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which such is kept.
      g.   All pet shops and kennels shall:
         (1)   Maintain records and retain such records for a two-year period
on all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records shall show
breed, color, markings, sex, age, date and source of the animal, period for
which animal is maintained, date and disposition of the animal (including name
and address of the new owner), and disease prevention and/or treatment and by
whom;
         (2)   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate
physical space for each animal, control parasites, clean water and food,
weather protection and clean and sanitary facilities; and
         (3)   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used
for confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary.
   2.   Pet shops shall be subject to the same requirements for licensing as
kennels; in addition, any other requirements of this code of ordinances or of
the adopted zoning ordinance which may involve specific animals sold in a pet
shop shall also be included in those regulations applicable to pet shops.
§ 3-80 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE, SUBJECT TO REVIEW
BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   1.   It is a condition to the issuance of a kennel license that an Animal
Control Officer shall be permitted to inspect, at all reasonable time, all
animals and kennels.
   2.   Refusal by the owner or operator of the kennel to permit such
inspection shall be a cause for the revocation of the kennel license. A second
attempt will be made to inspect the animals and kennels within 48 hours,
exclusive of holidays and weekends, from the time of the first refusal; and if
the inspecting official is denied entry for the purpose of inspection, the
Animal Control Officer shall revoke the license. The decision of the Animal
Control Officer shall be subject to review by the City Council if the kennel
owner or operator feels that the revocation of the kennel permit is
unjustified. No refund of the license fee shall be made to license holder.
   3.   If a City Council review is desired, the owner or operator of the
kennel shall so inform the Animal Control Officer, who, in turn, shall place
the request before the City Council within 30 days from the date of revocation.
The Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner/operator of the date, time
and place in which the City Council will consider the review.
   4.   During the pendency of the City Council review, no action shall be
taken or initiated against the owner or operator of the kennel.
   5.   The decision of the City Council is final. If the license revocation is
upheld by the City Council, no refund of the license fee shall be made to the
license holder.
§ 3-81 MUNICIPAL POUND AUTHORIZED.
   1.   The City Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to establish a
municipal pound, under the supervision of the Chief of Police. The animal
control office shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and
shall treat them in a humane manner.
   2.   The municipal pound may be established on a shared or contractual basis
with other units of government or with a private individual or firm, and need
not be physically located within the city.
§§ 3-82 THROUGH 3-93 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS; FEES
§ 3-94 LICENSE FOR DOGS AND CATS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or have under his
or her control three or less dogs or cats, or any combination thereof, over six
months of age, without obtaining a license for each such animal from the city.
The license on each such animal will be valid as long as the owner has such
animal and the license is validated every year upon proof of rabies
vaccination. When ownership of such animal is transferred to another person,
the new owner of such animal must obtain a new license from the city.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own four or more but not more
than seven dogs or cats, or any combination thereof, over six months of age
without obtaining a special handler’s license from the city and pay the
appropriate fee as provided in the fee schedule. The special handler’s license
will be valid as long as the owner has each unaltered dog and/or cat they own
altered. Owners who obtain a special handler’s license and own one or more
unaltered dogs or cats must renew the license annually.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own eight or more dogs or cats,
or any combination thereof, over six months of age without obtaining an annual
kennel license from the city and pay the annual fee as provided in the fee
schedule.
(Ord. 12-07, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 3-95 TERMS OF LICENSE; EXEMPTION.
   1.   The license issued for three or less dogs or cats shall be renewed each
year, upon receipt of proof of rabies vaccination.
   2.   City residents who are 65 years of age or older may obtain a license
for a cat or dog at no cost. However, if a kennel or special handler license is
applied for, the kennel or special handler’s license fee will apply to such
resident.
§ 3-96 ISSUANCE OF RECORDS.
   1.   Upon obtaining a license for a dog or cat, a license tag shall be
issued. The tag, of durable materials, shall be designed to be easily fastened
or riveted to the animal’s collar or harness. The tag shall bear a number
corresponding to the receipt issued by the Animal Control Officer.
   2.   When any tag has become lost during a registration period, the owner of
the dog or cat may request a duplicate tag, for the remainder of the
registration period, upon presentation of the registration certificate and a
replacement fee of $1.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any dog or cat a tag
issued for any other dog or cat or to make or use any false, forged or
counterfeited tag or imitation thereof.
   4.   The city’s Animal Control Officer shall maintain records of licensed
dogs and cats and such records shall be open to public inspection.
§ 3-97 FASTENING OF TAGS TO COLLAR OR HARNESS.
   Tags issued shall be fastened to the animal’s collar or harness at all
times. The collar or harness with tag will be worn by the animal at all times.
§ 3-98 LICENSE FEE; LICENSE FEE IN ADDITION TO OTHER FEES.
   1.   The fee for licensing of dogs and cats shall be provided in the fee
schedule.
   2.   The license fee shall be in addition to any other fee and deposits
provided in the fee schedule under this chapter and any fines imposed by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 3-99 USE OF REVENUES COLLECTED FROM LICENSE FEES.
   1.   The revenues collected for the licensing of dogs and cats shall be
specifically expended for the physical improvements to the facilities of the
city’s animal shelter, for the cost of administration and enforcement of this
chapter, costs associated with public education programs and activities, and
refunds to adopting parties upon return of an adopted animal.
   2.   The revenues collected as adoption fees for the adoption of animals
shall be used for general municipal purposes of the city and provide refunds to
adopting parties upon prior presentation of written certification by a licensed
veterinarian that an adopted animal is in poor health or in the case of “no
questions asked returns” as outlined in
§ 3-14.
   3.   The revenues collected from spay-neuter deposits, in addition to the
refunds contemplated in
§ 3-15, for animals which are neutered or spayed, shall be used to provide
refunds to adopting parties upon presentation of written certification by a
licensed veterinarian that an adopted animal is in poor health or in the case
of “ no questions asked returns” as outlined in
§ 3-14.
§ 3-100 TRANSFER OF CATS AND DOGS.
   1.   When ownership of dog or cat is transferred within the city limits, the
new owner will have 30 days to update the registration of the animal with the
Animal Control Officer.
   2.   When ownership of a vicious or dangerous dog is transferred within the
city limits, the previous owner will notify the Animal Control Officer and
provide the name and address of the new owner, if the new owner resides within
the city limits.
   3.   The new owner will be required to:
      a.   Immediately register the dog with the Animal Control Officer; and
      b.   Ensure the requirements for maintaining a vicious or dangerous dog,
as outlined within §3-36, are complied with prior to the dog being placed on
the new owner’s property.
§ 3-101 NON-APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to cats or dogs in the
custody of a veterinarian, or who owners are nonresidents visiting the city of
a period not exceeding 30 consecutive days.
§ 3-102 FEE SCHEDULE.
   1.   All animals impounded in the animal shelter shall be held for a period
of 72 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays, in order to give
owners a chance to locate them.
   2.   Owners searching for lost pets must physically come to the animal
control office between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday, to identify their pet. Members will not identify an animal over the
phone unless it has a city license on the collar, or some other form of
identification.
   3.   Animal control staff will make every effort to contact an owner of an
impounded animal with identification.
   4.   At the time of redemption, owners will need to provide animal control
staff with:
      a.   A copy of the animal’s current rabies certification issued by a
licensed veterinarian;
      b.   A copy of their city license certificate; and
      c.   A picture identification.
FEE SCHEDULE PER ANIMAL
FEE SCHEDULE                                                     PER ANIMAL
Altered dog or cat (neutered or spayed)                           
   First impoundment                                          $40
   Second impoundment                                         $60
   Third impoundment                                          $80
Animal adoption fee                                              $30
Animal surrender fee                                             $200
Boarding fee (will include day of arrival and day of departure)  $10 per day
City license (free for residents over 65)                        $10
Deceased animal pick-up fee                                      $20
Kennel license fee                                               $100 annual
Neuter/spay deposit (without proof of neuter/spay at time of     $40*
payout)
Special handler’s license fee                                  $100 annual
Trap deposit                                                     $85*
Unaltered dog or cat
   First impoundment                                          $80
   Second impoundment                                         $100
   Third impoundment                                          $120
Vaccination deposit (without proof of current rabies vaccination $40*
presented at time of payout)
* Refunded upon completion
 
(Ord. 12-08, passed 6-11-2012; Ord. 2021-01, passed 2-8-2021; Ord. 2021-07,
passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 3-103 VALIDITY OF CHAPTER.
   Should any section or part thereof of this chapter be held by the courts to
be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole
or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid.
§§ 3-104 THROUGH 3-117 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
CHAPTER 4: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Article 1: Codes and Code Administration
   
4-1   Model Construction Codes adopted
   
4-2   Adopted Codes: modifications
   
4-3   Adopted Codes: on file; in effect; conflicts
   
4-4   Building Inspector to Enforce Codes
   
4-5   Historic sites: maintenance; Codes; dangerous conditions
   
4-6 through 4-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Permits and Certificates
   
4-20   Building permits
   
4-21   Permits and fees for electrical inspections and services
   
4-22   House moving permit
   
4-23   Pavement cutting permits
   
4-24   Permits for pipes across streets
   
4-25   Demolition permits
   
4-26   Liquefied petroleum gas state permits
   
4-27 through 4-39 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Signs
   
4-40   Statement of purpose
   
4-41   Definitions
   
4-42   Permit procedures
   
4-43   Prohibited signs
   
4-44   Garage sale signs
   
4-45   Political signs
Article 4: Historic Preservation
   
4-100   Statement of purpose
   
4-101   Purpose
   
4-102   Definitions
   
4-103   Applicability and administration
   
4-104   Registration fees
   
4-105   Property manager or agent
   
4-106   Standard of care for vacant property
   
4-107   Fee waivers
   
4-108   Jurisdiction, enforcement and penalties
   
4-109 through 4-149 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Flood
   
4-150   Flood-prone areas
   
4-151   Finding of fact
   
4-152   Statement of purpose
   
4-153   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
4-154   Definitions
   
4-155   Lands to which this article applies
   
4-156   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
4-157   Establishment of development permit
   
4-158   Compliance
   
4-159   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
4-160   Interpretation
   
4-161   Warning and disclaimer or liability
   
4-162   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
4-163   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
4-164   Permit procedures
   
4-165   Variances
   
4-166   General standards
   
4-167   Specific standards
   
4-168   Standards for subdivisions
   
4-169   Floodways
Article 6: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
4-170   Severability
   
4-171   Penalties for noncompliance
   
4-172   Structure numbering system
   
4-173   Movement of frame buildings
   
4-174   Plumbers, electricians and mechanical contractors registration
   
4-175   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
4-176   Off-street parking
   
4-177   Smoke detectors in multi-family residential structures
   
4-178   Wind energy conversion systems
   
4-179   Officers and employees not liable
   
4-180 through 4-199 Reserved for future use
Article 7: Penalty
   
4-200   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: CODES AND CODE ADMINISTRATION
§ 4-1 MODEL CONSTRUCTION CODES ADOPTED.
   The particular Model Construction Codes listed below (with revisions as may
be hereinafter set forth) are hereby adopted and incorporated in this code of
ordinances, as fully as if set out at length herein, for the purposes of
establishing rules and regulations for the following activities carried on
within the corporate limits of the city:
   1.   Building Code. The construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use, occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures:
      a.   IPMC International Property Maintenance Code 2021, for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided for the insurance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code on file in
the city are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part of thereof, as if
fully set out in this subsection 1., with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed of this subsection 1.
      b.   IBC International Building Code 2018 for regulating and governing
the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of
existing buildings, including historic buildings, as herein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collections of fees therefor; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Existing Building Code on file the office of the city and hereby referred to
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this subsection 1.,
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any prescribed of
this subsection 1.
   2.   Plumbing Code. The installation or alteration of plumbing and drainage
systems for buildings and structures: International Plumbing Code (recommended
by International Code Council Inc.), 2006 Edition;
   3.   Electrical Code. The provisions of basic standards for the installation
or alteration of the electrical supply or equipment for buildings or
structures: National Electrical Code (recommended by the National Fire
Protection Association), 2008 Edition;
   4.   Fire Prevention Code. The provision of basic safeguards to life and
property from the hazards of fire and explosion: International Fire Code
(recommended by International Code Council, Inc.), 2009 Edition;
   5.   Gas Codes. The installation or alteration of gas systems for buildings
or structures: International Fuel and Gas Code (recommended by the
International Code Council), 2018 Edition;
   6.   Energy Conservation Code. The provision of basic standards for energy
conservation in building and structures: International Energy Conservation Code
(recommended by International Code Council, Inc.), 2006 Edition;
   7.   Mechanical Code. The provision of basic standards for mechanical
installations in buildings and structures: International Mechanical Code
(recommended by International Code Council, Inc.), 2018 Edition.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 2-6-2012; Ord. 1402, passed 2-10-2014; Ord. 21-02, passed
2-8-2021; Ord. 2023-10, passed 11-14-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 4-2 ADOPTED CODES: MODIFICATIONS.
   1.   Wherever the words “city” or “municipality” are used in these Model
Construction Codes adopted, it shall mean the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   2.   Wherever the words “Inspector”, “Building Inspector”, “Zoning
Administration Officer” or “Administrative Official” are used in these Model
Construction Codes adopted, it shall mean the municipal official currently
assuming the duties and responsibilities of Municipal Building Inspector for
the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   3.   All official titles used in those Model Construction Codes adopted
shall be interpreted as defined in this code of ordinances.
   4.   Maximum penalties for violation of provisions of those Model
Construction Codes adopted shall be as provided in the penalty section of this
chapter.
   5.   Notwithstanding any provisions of any of those Model Construction Codes
adopted by this chapter, wood shingles may be used for roofing.
   6.   All limits, except “fire limits”, referred to in any of those Model
Construction Codes adopted by this chapter are hereby established as the
corporate limits of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   7.   Section 115.3 of the (IBC) 2018 International Building Code shall read
as follows: “Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure
after having been served with a “stop work order”, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be subject to the penalties as provided in the Cache City Code.”
   8.   Section 108.4 of the 2018 (IPC) International Plumbing Code shall read
as follows: “Any person who shall continue any plumbing work after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to the
penalties as provided in the Cache City Code.”
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 4-3 ADOPTED CODES: ON FILE; IN EFFECT; CONFLICTS.
   1.   One copy of each of the Model Construction Codes adopted by the city,
as set forth in
§ 4-1 herein is on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   2.   The provisions of the codes set forth in
§ 4-1 shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety and general welfare. Whenever any of the provisions
or requirements of the codes are inconsistent with the provisions of the city
code of ordinances or state statutes, the provisions or requirements containing
the most restrictive regulation shall govern within the corporate limits of the
city.
§ 4-4 BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ENFORCE CODES.
   Any certified municipal official, or other certified employee designated by
the City Council, shall be responsible for enforcing the Model Construction
Codes adopted by this code of ordinances. Said persons may bear such titles as
“Building Inspector”, “Gas Inspector”, “Plumbing Inspector”, “Electrical
Inspector”, “Zoning Administration Officer” and the like, as may be deemed
appropriate to indicate their respective areas of concern, and shall be
appointed or designated by the City Council.
§ 4-5 HISTORIC SITES: MAINTENANCE; CODES; DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   1.   Every person in charge of an improvement on a locally-designated
historic site or in an historic district shall keep in good repair all of the
exterior portions of such improvement and all interior portions which, if not
so maintained, may cause, or tend to cause, the exterior portions of such
improvement to fall into a state of disrepair. This section shall be in
addition to all other provisions of law, local ordinance or codes requiring
buildings or structures to be well maintained.
   2.   Insofar as they are applicable to an historic landmark, historic site
or improvement in an historic district, any provision of any adopted Model
Construction Codes may be varied or waived, on application, by the Municipal
Building Inspector; provided, that, such variance or waiver does not endanger
public health or safety.
   3.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, demolition or any improvement on an historic site
or in an historic district, pursuant to written order of any federal or state
agency or pursuant to any court judgment to remedy conditions determined to be
dangerous to life or health. In such case, no approval from the Preservation
Commission shall be required.
§§ 4-6 THROUGH 4-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
§ 4-20 BUILDING PERMITS.
   1.   No person shall erect, enlarge, construct, relocate, substantially
improve, repair, place, alter, move or demolish any building, structure,
mobile, modular or manufactured home, or initiate any other construction,
without first obtaining a separate building permit for each such building or
structure from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Said permit shall be in
addition to, and separate from, all other requirements for zoning clearance
permits, occupancy certificates or certificates of appropriateness.
      a.   All building permits issued for construction, replacement or major
(40% or more) repair of any fence (fences, walls or hedges, hereinafter
referred to as fences) within the corporate limits of the city, shall comply
with applicable zoning and building regulations and with the following
requirements.
         (1)   Any fence in front of the front of the building limit line shall
not exceed four feet in height above the average elevation of the property.
         (2)   No fence outside any side or rear building limit line of any
structure may exceed six feet in height above the average elevation of the
property.
         (3)   Where security or privacy requires a fence height in excess of
the above, it may be permitted, on review, in accordance with the provisions
contained in
Chapter 15 in the zoning regulations of this code of this code of ordinances.
In no case may the fence be more than eight feet above the elevation of the
ground measured at the base of the fence.
         (4)   Fences, with or without hedge or similar vegetation, shall not
cause a sight obstruction for any private driveway.
         (5)   Fences shall not be closer than 11.5 feet in distance from back
of the curb or the edge of the pavement. In no case shall the erection of such
fence or wall interfere with existing sidewalk, sight triangle or fire
hydrants. This provision does not give a landowner any legal right or property
interest to the right-of-way, and the right-of-way by the city or a utility
company.
         (6)   No person shall build, construct, erect or maintain any
electrical or barbed wire fence within the city limits; except, when used on
any land in excess of two acres to retain large animals. Barbed wire may be
used, when strung on extension arms at the top of a fence; provided that such
barbed wire be at least six feet from the ground and not extend beyond the
property line upon which such fence is situated.
         (7)   Fences shall be kept in good repair, and in a safe and sanitary
condition at all times by the owner.
      b.   In the event of conflict between the fence height restrictions
delineated herein and the justifiable need of the applicant for a permit to
construct a fence not in conformity with such height restrictions, the
applicant may, after denial of his or her permit to construct said fence,
appeal the permit denial to the City Council requesting variance from said
height requirement/restrictions.
         (1)   The appeal must be filed in the office of the City Clerk within
ten calendar days after the request for a fence permit has been denied.
         (2)   If the City Council finds that because of exceptional
circumstances the strict application of the fence height requirements contained
herein would result in undue hardship, the City Council may authorize a
variance from the fence height requirements.
         (3)   EXCEPTION CIRCUMSTANCES are defined as circumstances due to
handicap, disability, infirmity or advanced age of the applicant, or due to the
unusual configuration and/or location of the applicant’s property such that
excessive light, noise safety or disturbance from a business or businesses or
traffic make it unlikely that the applicant can peacefully and/or safely enjoy
the use of the applicant’s property.
   2.   Before any building or structure is demolished, a permit must be
obtained from the building official. The permit shall have a fee charged as set
in subsection 6. below.
      a.   The demolition of the building or structure shall commence within
seven calendar days and be completed within 30 calendar days after the permit
is issued. Up to 30 calendar days additional time to complete the demolition
may be granted upon written application to the code official; provided, the
entire demolition site must be secured by a substantial fence or other suitable
barrier to preclude accidental or causal entry. The work shall meet all
requirements of this section.
      b.   Before demolition of the building or structure is started, all
utility service connections will be removed and all storm and sanitary sewers
leading from the building or structure shall sealed.
      c.   All floors, slabs and foundations which are a part of the building
or structure being demolished shall be removed to a depth of one foot below
existing grade, and the area shall be backfilled with suitable, uncontaminated
dirt, concrete or asphalt. Basements of demolished buildings of structures
shall also be backfilled to grade level.
      d.   All debris and rubble of demolished buildings or structures shall be
disposed of at an approved dumping site that meets all local codes and State
Health Department regulations.
      e.   Upon completion of demolition and site clearance, the site shall be
graded so that it will drain without significant erosion or scour.
      f.   All demolition, site clearance work and site grading shall be
subject to inspection and must be approved by the Building Official.
      g.   Noncompliance shall be grounds for revocation of the permit by the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
   3.   No human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate located
within a designated flood hazard area, including, but not limited to, buildings
or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, shall be initiated until a separate building permit has
been obtained for each such operation from the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   4.   No mobile, manufactured or modular home shall be placed on improved or
unimproved real estate without first obtaining a separate building permit for
each such home from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   5.   All applications for building permits shall be signed and in writing,
upon an official blank form supplied by the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer
or the Municipal Building Inspector, and shall be submitted to either of said
officials, along with the required fee.
   6.   Building permit fees shall be according to the following schedule:
a. Minimum fee for residential use, structures or additions                        $125
   Minimum fee for commercial use, construction or additions                       $150
b. Fee per square foot for concrete for residential additions, driveways, below-   $0.10
   ground storm shelters, in-ground swimming pools. (Flatwork)
   Fee per square foot in addition to minimum fee for concrete for residential     $0.25
   foundation construction or additions to existing residential foundations.
   Fee per square foot in addition to minimum fee for concrete for new commercial  $0.35
   construction or additions to existing commercial structures.
c. Base remodel and other improvement permit fee. (Below-ground storm shelters,    $50
   in-ground swimming pools)
d. Fence permit                                                                    $30
e. Carport permit                                                                  $50
f. Mobile home permit                                                              $75
g. House moving permit                                                             $100
h. Demolition permit                                                               $50
i. Governmental agencies exempt from fees
      The payment of fees for permits shall not be required for construction or
   improvements by or on behalf of the federal, state, county, city or other
   political subdivision of government. This section shall not be construed as
   waiving the requirement of obtaining a building permit or obtaining inspections
   requited by this code. Inspection fees as required by this code and provided in  
   the fee schedule shall be paid by all governmental entities and political
   subdivisions for new construction except for inspection fees on buildings owned
   or controlled by the city or any political subdivision thereof; the Mayor or
   his or her designated representative may waive or modify said inspection fees
   for building projects by governmental entities and political subdivisions
j. Effective date of governmental agency’s exemption                              
      The effective date for governmental agencies not being required to pay fees
   for permits for construction or improvements as set forth in subsection 6.j.     
   above shall be January 1, 2019
 
   7.   The office of the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the
administration of the building permit process; provided, that, building permit
application forms may be obtained from, and submitted to, the Municipal
Building Inspector.
   8.   Applications for building permits shall contain all applicable
information required on the building permit form, and shall be accompanied by
drawings of the proposed work (drawn to scale), showing floor plans, structural
details, computations and such additional information as may be required of the
applicant by the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, the Municipal Building
Inspector, this code of ordinances or the City Council.
   9.   Building permits applications for development, location, demolition or
alteration within delineated flood hazard areas (as shown on the community’s
official flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated July 20, 2009 which is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out fully herein), shall be reviewed by the
Municipal Building Inspector to ensure compliance with
§ 4-150 and that all of the following requirements are met:
      a.   The involved land is properly zoned for the proposed use;
      b.   Applicable zoning district provisions (including floodway and
floodway fringe district provisions), and any applicable historic preservation
provisions, have been met;
      c.   Legally-dedicated roadway access is available, and proof of such
dedication has been provided;
      d.   Adequate and sanitary provisions have been made for utilities, and
fire protection is also adequate;
      e.   All easements and street right-of-way areas provided in the recorded
plat, if any, are not encroached upon; to this end, the builder of any
structure located in the city shall, by receipt of the building permit, agree
to furnish the purchaser(s) of the structure(s) with a survey of the lot(s) and
structure(s) thereon, upon completion of construction, indicating compliance
with this requirement; said survey shall be signed by a surveyor licensed in
the state;
      f.   All other floodplain regulations, if applicable, have been met and
the required information provided;
      g.   Applicable historic preservation regulations have been met (
Article 4 of this chapter and any appropriate provisions of
Chapter 15 of this code of ordinances); and
      h.   All other required municipal permits and/or licenses have been
obtained.
   10.   Building permit applications for development, location, demolition or
alteration within delineated flood hazard areas (as shown on the community’s
official flood insurance rate map (FIRM), dated July 20, 2009, which is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out fully herein), shall be reviewed by the
Municipal Building Inspector to ensure that all of the following requirements
are met:
      a.   All building sites shall be reasonably safe from flooding; if a
proposed building site is in a flood-prone area, all new construction and
substantial improvement (including the placement of pre-fabricated buildings
and mobile homes) shall:
         (1)   Be designed, modified and/or adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure; all manufactured
housing to be placed within Zone A on the community’s flood hazard boundary map
(FHBM) shall be anchored by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground
anchors; over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four corners of the
mobile home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate points, and
manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side; frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home, with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; all components of
the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying a force of 4,800 pounds; any
additions to the home shall be similarly-anchored;
         (2)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage;
         (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages; and
         (4)   Be constructed with electrical, heating, plumbing, ventilation
and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed
and/or located to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      b.   All new and replacement water supply systems within flood-prone
areas shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems.
      c.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      d.   On-site waste disposal systems within flood-prone areas shall be
located to avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them, during
flooding.
      e.   (1)   The Municipal Building Inspector shall utilize all available
100-year flood elevation data to review building permit applications, and shall
require that all applications for development within a flood-prone area be
accompanied by:
            (a)   The elevation of the lowest habitable floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures; and
            (b)   A certificate signed by a registered professional engineer or
architect, stating that the flood-proofing methods to be utilized are adequate
to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces,
and other factors associated with the 100-year flood, and indicating the
specific elevation to which the structure will be flood-proofed.
         (2)   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding, shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
            (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
            (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices; provided, that, they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
      f.   All new construction or substantial improvement of residential
structures within Zone A1-30 on the municipality’s flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot above
the level of the 100-year flood.
      g.   Within Zone A1-30 on the municipality’s flood insurance rate map
(FIRM), all manufactured housing not in a park or subdivision, all new
manufactured housing parks and subdivisions, all expansions to existing
manufactured housing parks and subdivisions and all repairs, reconstruction or
improvement of streets, utilities and/or pads in existing manufactured housing
parks or subdivisions, shall be located, developed, expanded or improved
according to the following criteria:
         (1)   All manufactured housing shall be placed, or be capable of being
placed, on compacted fill or on pilings, so that the lowest floor of the home
will be one foot above the level of the 100-year flood;
         (2)   All lots shall have adequate provisions for surface drainage and
access; and
         (3)   All manufactured housing to be elevated on pilings shall:
            (a)   Be placed on lots large enough to permit steps;
            (b)   Provide for piling foundations to be placed in stable or
stabilized soils, no more than ten feet apart; and
            (c)   Provide for reinforcement of piers more than six feet above
ground level.
      h.   All new construction or substantial improvement of residential
structures located within any AO (Area of Shallow Flooding) Zone, as shown on
the municipality’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM), shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade or the
crown of the nearest street, one foot above the depth number specified for the
area on the municipality’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM). Within Zone AH or
AO, adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be required.
      i.   All new construction or substantial improvement of nonresidential
structures within Zone A1-30 on the municipality’s flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) shall:
         (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot
above the level of the 100-year flood; or
         (2)   Be designed, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, so that, below the level of the 100-year flood, the structure is
water-tight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and
contains structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy.
      j.   All new construction or substantial improvement of nonresidential
structures within any AO (Area of Shallow Flooding) Zone on the municipality’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) shall:
         (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade or the crown of the nearest street, one foot above the
depth number specified on the municipality’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM);
or
         (2)   Be completely flood-proofed, along with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, to one foot above the depth number specified on the
municipality’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM), so that any space below the
level is water-tight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, and contains structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy; and
         (3)   Be required to include, within Zones AH or AO, adequate drainage
paths around structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from
proposed structures.
      k.   The requirements of this chapter shall also be in effect for
building permit applications for development located within any A99 Zones on
the municipality’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
      l.   Floodways, as designated on the municipality’s official flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM), are hazardous areas due to:
         (1)   The velocity of flood waters which carry debris and potentially
damaging projectiles; and
         (2)   The creation of severe erosion problems; the following
provisions apply within designated floodway areas:
            (a)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other developments, unless
certification by a professional registered engineer or architect is provided,
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge.
            (b)   If the provisions of subsection 10.l.(2)(a) above are
satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this code of ordinances.
   11.   The Municipal Building Inspector shall have the following additional
responsibilities in the review of building permit applications for development,
location, demolition or alteration within a delineated flood hazard area.
      a.   Building permit applications shall be reviewed to ensure that all
necessary governmental agency permits required by state or federal law have
been obtained.
      b.   In the case of building permit applications for alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, the Municipal Building Inspector shall:
         (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the state flood insurance
coordinating office prior to such work (and submit copies of such notification
to the Federal Flood Insurance Administrator); and
         (2)   Obtain written assurances from the building permit applicant
that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the
watercourse will be maintained.
      c.   For the purpose of determining future flood insurance risk premium
rates, the Municipal Building Inspector shall maintain records of:
         (1)   The elevation of the lowest habitable floor of all new or
substantially-improved structures; and
         (2)   Flood-proofing certificates (including the specific elevation to
which the structures are flood-proofed).
      d.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Municipal
Building Inspector must require that no new construction, substantial
improvements or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within
Zones A1-30 and AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
      e.   The Municipal Building Inspector shall utilize the full range of the
community’s floodplain management regulations in this review, including:
         (1)   Section
1-58 (
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances);
         (2)   Section
4-150 (
Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances);
         (3)   Section
15-36 et seq. (
Chapter 15; zoning ordinance);
         (4)   Section
15-37 et seq. (
Chapter 15; subdivision regulations); and
         (5)   All other floodplain management policy resolutions, plans and
data references available for this use.
   12.   Issuance of a building permit for development within an identified
flood hazard area shall not create liability on the part of any municipal
official for any flood damages resulting from reliance upon the provisions of
this section, or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   13.   If the Municipal Building Inspector is satisfied that the proposed
work described in the application and attached materials conform to the
requirements of the adopted zoning ordinance, Building Code and other
regulations and requirements, the issuance of the building permit shall be
authorized by signing the application and forwarding it to the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer, who shall return a copy to the applicant.
   14.   If the application or attached materials do not conform to pertinent
municipal regulations, the Municipal Building Inspector shall not approve said
application, but shall return the application to the City Clerk-Treasurer,
along with written reason(s) for disapproval. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall
return the application, with written reason(s) attached, to the applicant. The
applicant may subsequently amend the application, if possible, and re-submit
it, or initiate other action to correct the deficiencies.
   15.   The Municipal Building Inspector and the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall complete all required review processes in an efficient and
effective manner, without unreasonable or unnecessary delay.
   16.   A building permit, once approved and issued, shall be construed as
authorization to proceed with the work and shall not be construed as authority
to violate, cancel, alter or set aside any municipal regulations, nor shall
such issuance prevent the Municipal Building Inspector from thereafter
requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction or a violation of this
code of ordinances.
   17.   If the work allowed under an issued building permit has not been
initiated within the time period as outlined below, such permit shall become
null and void, unless a request for an extension is submitted to, and approved
by the City Council. If said permit becomes null and void, a new permit must be
obtained and the regular fee incident thereto collected, in order for the work
to be initiated or resumed.
      a.   If the work described in any building permit for new construction
has not begun within 90 days from the date of issuance thereof, the permit
shall be canceled by the Building Official and written notice thereof shall be
given to the persons affected.
      b.   If the work described in any building permit for new construction
has not been completed within one year of the date of issuance thereof, the
permit shall expire and be canceled by the Building Official, and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice
that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless
and until a new building permit has been obtained.
      c.   If the work described in any building permit for remodeling or
alteration of existing structures has not begun within 30 days from the date of
issuance thereof, the permit shall be canceled by the Building Official and
written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected. This provision
shall also be applicable to the construction of fences, carports, patio covers
and accessory buildings.
      d.   If the work described in any building permit for remodeling or
alteration of existing structures has not been completed within 180 days of the
date of issuance thereof, the permit shall expire and be canceled by the
Building Official; and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons
affected, together with notice that further work as described in the canceled
permit shall not proceed unless and until a new building permit has been
obtained. This provision shall also be applicable to the construction of
fences, carports patio covers and accessory buildings.
   18.   The Municipal Building Inspector shall keep a permanent and accurate
accounting of all building permits, and shall transmit copies of each permit
issued to the Chairperson of the Municipal Planning Commission, for information
purposes. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a permanent and accurate record
of all building permit fee payments.
   19.   The City Clerk-Treasurer may revoke a building permit in case there
has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the
application or attached materials on which the building permit approval was
based.
   20.   Building permits shall be conspicuously displayed on the project or
site, in a manner visible from the street.
   21.   The City Clerk-Treasurer and the Municipal Building Inspector shall
monitor municipal utility hook-up requests and shall not allow municipal
utilities to be turned on to any unit, structure or project for which a
building permit has not been issued.
   22.   Appeals from any aggrieved person concerning a decision of the City
Clerk-Treasurer relative to the granting of building permits shall be taken to
the City Council, who shall act as the Permit Board of Appeals for the city.
   23.   No building permit shall be issued on any portion of a plat on which
all subdivision improvements have not been completed and accepted for
dedication by the City Council. No municipal utility service shall be furnished
to such lot until all subdivision improvements have been completed and accepted
for dedication. No utilities either private or city owned shall be connected
for residential or commercial occupancy until the sewer line has meet the
required deflection test and said sewer line has been accepted and approved by
the City Council.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 6-13-2016; Ord. 19-02, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 2023-07,
passed 8-14-2023; Ord. 2024-05, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 4-21 PERMITS AND FEES FOR ELECTRICAL INSPECTIONS AND SERVICES.
   1.   Electrical work on new buildings or re-modeling work shall require that
the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer issue a permit for said work, consistent
with the requirements of the city’s adopted Electrical Code; said permit shall
be issued upon application, but signed/approved only when the Municipal
Electrical Inspector has completed an inspection of said work.
   2.   The fees for said inspections shall be as follows:
 
Building inspection fee         $50
Building preplan inspection fee $50
Electrical inspection fee       $50
Mechanical inspection fee       $50
Plumbing inspection fee         $50
Re-inspection fee               $50
 
(Ord. 14-05, passed 6-9-2014; Ord. 2019-03, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 4-22 HOUSE MOVING PERMIT.
   1.   Before any person shall move any house, building or heavy structure
(but not including a mobile or manufactured home) on or over any non-federal or
non-state roadway within or through the city, it shall first be necessary to
obtain a house moving permit to do so from the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer; said permit shall first be approved by the Mayor or Acting Mayor.
   2.   The fee for a permit to move such house or structure shall be $50. In
the event it is necessary to move utility lines, poles, signs or other
structures to facilitate the move, the cost therefor will be paid by the
applicant, in addition to the normal fee.
   3.   No permit shall be issued to any person to move a house or structure
unless the person will indemnify the owners of any property (public or private,
including pavement, curbs and the like) for any damage thereto resulting from
the moving of any house or structure by him or her or his or her agents or
employees, and hold the city harmless from liability for any such damages.
   4.   It shall be the duty of a municipal official to approve or determine
the route that may be used and the potential for damages, if any, to any
property; such rules and regulations as are necessary to promote an effective
move and the protection of persons and property. The mover shall erect all
necessary danger signals during the operation of moving.
   5.   Any person moving any house or any other structure on or over any
street or alley, shall be liable (personally and upon bond) for any damage to
trees, public property, persons or any matter whatsoever resulting from such
moving. This shall not be construed to authorize any person to cut or trim any
trees, or commit any injury to any public or private property which cannot be
immediately restored to its former condition; no permit shall authorize any
moving under any conditions which will promote such damage.
§ 4-23 PAVEMENT CUTTING PERMITS.
   1.   Any public utility contractor, firm or other person desiring to bore or
cut into, or in any manner cross, any public street, alley, sidewalk or public
ground of any sort, whether paved, graveled, bricked, blacktopped or not for
any purpose whatever, shall first obtain a pavement cutting permit from the
City Clerk-Treasurer to cross or open such street, alley, sidewalk or ground.
(Exception to this requirement will be made only when a bona fide emergency
exists. In such case, the Municipal Building Inspector or the Mayor shall be
notified at the earliest practical time.)
   2.   On all-weather streets or alleys with bituminous or concrete surface,
boring will be required without exception; cutting or ditching will be allowed
on all streets or alleys with dirt or gravel surface. If for any reason these
requirements cannot be complied with, cutting of a street will be allowed, but
shall require the street surface to be replaced with a minimum of six inches of
concrete, 24 inches wider than the cut or the ditch.
   3.   When any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground has been crossed for
the purposes of laying gas, water or sewage pipe, or for any other purpose, the
surface will be restored with similar material and workmanship to that existing
in the street, alley, sidewalk or public ground before the same was torn up;
all work shall be completed and re-filled to the satisfaction of the Municipal
Building Inspector, or a representative, and approval issued as previously
stated.
   4.   Materials used to backfill any opening in a street or alley shall be
placed in lifts not to exceed ten inches, and each lift shall be tamped either
mechanically or by hand to 95% compaction. Six inches of crushed aggregate base
material shall be used to fill to the existing surface on all streets and
alleys. Openings in concrete surfaces shall be filled with base material to
within four inches of the bottom of the slab. The remaining four inches of the
opening shall be filled with sand to the bottom of the concrete slab to be
replaced. On major streets, the thickness of crushed aggregate base material
required may vary.
   5.   In all cases where the surface of the street, alley, sidewalk or public
ground is disturbed, the party so cutting into the opening shall place lights
at night and maintain suitable barricades at all times to protect persons from
danger.
   6.   Should any person, firm, corporation, contractor or franchise holder
with the city fail to comply, said party shall be summoned before the City
Council for removal of his or her license or franchise. Any person not licensed
with the city who fails to comply, shall be fined and required to pay costs of
repair plus labor.
   7.   The fee for such permits shall be:
 
Excavation in brick, asphalt or oil mat $20 (minimum) plus $10 per square yard
pavement or surface
Excavation in concrete pavement or      $30 (minimum) plus $15 per square yard
surface
Excavation in untreated or unimproved   $5 (minimum) plus $1 per square yard
street or surface
Modification or removal of curb or      $10
curbing
 
§ 4-24 PERMITS FOR PIPES ACROSS STREETS.
   1.   Oil and gas companies, and other persons, firms and corporations not
operating pursuant to a franchise granted by the municipality or not operating
pursuant to a license or permit granted by the State Corporation Commission,
shall secure a permit from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer before
placing, installing, laying, constructing, operating or maintaining any pipe,
cable, wire, conduit or line across, over, under, along, through or upon any
street, alley, public way or public place within the corporate limits of the
city; said permit shall first be approved by the Mayor or Acting Mayor.
   2.   The application for the permit shall specify:
      a.   The location of the pipe, cable, wire conduit or line; and
      b.   The privileges and proposed terms which the applicant desires to
secure from the city and to exercise.
   3.   If the permit is granted, the Mayor or Acting Mayor will grant it on
written terms which are mutually agreeable. The Mayor or Acting Mayor may
revoke said permit after adequate opportunity for a public hearing, for any of
the following reasons:
      a.   Failure to abide by the terms on which the permit was granted;
      b.   Violation of state law or municipal ordinances; or
      c.   Failure to provide for the protection of the public peace, health,
safety or welfare.
   4.   The applicant shall pay such fees for such permit and for its periodic
renewal, as the City Council may establish by motion.
   5.   The Mayor or Acting Mayor may refuse to renew a permit.
   6.   The City Council may require an applicant to provide a bond for the
protection of the city and/or the public in such sum and with such terms as
said City Council deems desirable. When the City Council requires such a bond,
a permit shall have no force or effect unless the required bond is also in
affect.
§ 4-25 DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   1.   A demolition permit shall be required, in addition to the regular
building permit, prior to the demolition of any building or part thereof. The
fee for a demolition permit shall be $50.
   2.   Application for permits to wreck or demolish any building or part
thereof, shall be accompanied by a statement in writing by the owner or agent,
giving the full name and residence of each of the owners of the building to be
demolished, the name and address of the person who is to do the work and any
other information which may be required.
   3.   In no case shall any wall be taken down more than one story in advance
of any other wall.
   4.   All material and debris shall be immediately lowered to the ground and
shall not be placed on the floors of the building.
§ 4-26 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS STATE PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensation or
utilization of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle or store such
gas, unless such person has complied and complies with, all provisions of the
state law and local ordinances relating thereto, and has any permit which may
be required by state law. No storage of liquefied petroleum gas, except by
retail customers, in reasonable amounts, strictly intended for their own use,
shall be permitted within the corporate limits of the city.
§§ 4-27 THROUGH 4-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: SIGNS
§ 4-40 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is designed as follows:
   1.   To provide for the appropriate use and location of signs in a manner
that will not adversely affect or impact property values, compatibility of land
use, community appearance and identity, and to otherwise promote the general
welfare and public safety of the city.
   2.   To establish standards and guidelines for the design, erection, and
installation of signs.
   3.   To provide for the issuance, revocation, inspection of signs within the
city.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 4-41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIGNS. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, or
land and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person,
institution, or business.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 4-42 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   1.   All permanent/commercial signs, which are permitted under this article,
or any future amendments thereto shall be installed by licensed sign
contractors in accord with the locations and plans approved at the time of
application for a sign permit.
   2.   Applications for sign permits must include but are not limited to the
following information:
      a.   Proof of ownership or written permission of the owner of the lot
upon which the proposed sign will be constructed.
      b.   A detailed site plan of the property showing the proposed sign
location and all structures and easements and driveways.
      c.   The proposed dimensions of the sign and a description of the method
of supporting the sign.
      d.   The name and business address of the licensed sign contractor and
the licensed electrical contractor or licensed electrical sign contractor if
the sign is electrically powered.
      e.   The name and contact information of the sign owner.
      f.   Type of sign requested: ground/wall/projecting etc., permanent or
temporary illuminated or not illuminated.
      g.   Sign permit fees are as per the fee schedule approved by the City
Council.
   3.   Included in the permit fee is an inspection that is required by the
city. It is the responsibility of the owner/erector of the sign to contact the
City Clerk’s office for an inspection upon completion of the installation.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 4-43 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   1.   Signs erected in violation of the city’s building, electrical or sign
codes, or other applicable local regulations established in Chapter 18, Article
5, §
86.
   2.   Other “no sign zones” include:
      a.   Any telephone pole, electrical pole, lamp post, street sign
established in Chapter 13, Article 5, §
75.
      b.   No signage shall be placed or maintained on public right of ways or
easements. Signs are not to be located in any public park or city owned
property.
      c.   Signs are also not allowed in sight triangles at intersections.
Signs in these areas are subject to removal by city staff without notice to the
property owner because they can obstruct the vision of the traveling public or
interfere with pedestrian movements.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 4-44 GARAGE SALE SIGNS.
   1.   Garage sale signs shall be labeled with the time and date of the sale.
If the time and date is not listed on the sign it shall be at the discretion of
the city officials to remove said signs.
   2.   Any garage sale signs not picked up the operator of the garage sale
with 24 hours of the date and time listed on the advertisement will be
considered a public nuisance and the City Clerk’s office will follow the
procedure established in Chapter 12, Article 1, §
5.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 4-45 POLITICAL SIGNS.
   1.   No political sign shall be erected more than 45 days prior to any
election, nor shall be permitted to remain on any property more than seven days
following an election.
   2.   No political signs shall be permitted on public property, they shall be
permitted on private property only with the consent of the property owner. The
property owner shall be responsible for removing the political seven days after
the election.
   3.   Political signs not removed after seven days will be considered a
public nuisance and the City Clerk’s office will follow the procedure
established in Chapter 12, Article 1, §
5.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-9-2024)
§§ 4-46 through 4-99 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USES.
ARTICLE 4: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
§ 4-100 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   1.   This article is designed to allow for the designation, and subsequent
protection of, properties which have been determined to be architecturally,
archaeologically, culturally or historically significant to the city and to
allow interested parties the opportunity to arrange for the preservation of
such properties.
   2.   The purposes of this article are to:
      a.   Promote the designation of historic properties and landmarks and the
creation of historic districts for the educational, cultural, economic and
general welfare of the public;
      b.   Safeguard the cultural and architectural heritage of the city;
      c.   Preserve and enhance the environmental quality of neighborhoods;
      d.   Strengthen the city’s economic base through stimulation of
structural and district conservation, re-use and revitalization;
      e.   Stabilize and preserve property values; and
      f.   Promote harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of
the community, through the integration of the preservation and comprehensive
planning processes within the city.
§ 4-101 PURPOSE.
   These are hereby adopted rules and regulations regarding vacant structures
in Downtown Business/Historical. This article shall be known and may be cited
as the “Vacant Building Regulations”.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 4-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT/HISTORIC. Located as adopted and described in the
City of Cache zoning ordinance.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK. An individual structure or property that has been
designated as such through approved means by City Council, state or federal
authority.
   LAWFUL ACTIVITY. That for which the structure was built or intended to be
used. No building shall be used primarily for storage of personal or business
items.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, partnership or corporation having a legal
interest in the property.
   SECURED. All accessible means of ingress and egress to the vacant structure,
including, but not limited to, all exterior doorways and windows being locked
so as to prevent unauthorized entry.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
   TEMPORARILY SECURED. All accessible means of ingress and egress to the
vacant structure, including, but not limited to, all exterior doorways and
windows are covered with plywood (or other appropriate material) that has been
nailed or bolted in place so as to prevent unauthorized entry.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 4-103 APPLICABILITY AND ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   This article shall apply to all vacant structures, as defined herein,
which are now in existence or which may hereafter be constructed or converted
from other uses and which are within the Downtown Business District/Historical
and all vacant designated historic landmarks.
   2.   The City Mayor or his or her designees may consider provided evidence
that the property is listed for sale or lease for fair market value and for a
reasonable length of time for purposes of extending the length of time before
the property must be registered.
   3.   Upon the issuance of notice by the city to register a vacant property,
and prior to the issuance of a certificate of registration for any vacant
building, the owner shall register with the city enforcement and provide the
following information:
      a.   The address and legal description of the property;
      b.   The current name, physical address, mailing address, telephone
number and e-mail information for any owner(s) with an ownership interest in
the property. Corporations or corporate entities shall submit the same
information pertaining to their registered agent;
      c.   The contact information for a local manager of the properties and/or
improvements located on said property, as applicable;
      d.   Proof of insurance of the building, which the owner shall procure
and keep in full force and effect at all times during the registration term,
for commercial general liability and property insurance coverage, with minimum
combined bodily injury (including death) and property damage limits of not less
than $1,000,000 for each occurrence and $2,000,000 annual aggregate;
      e.   A written comprehensive plan of action detailing a timeline for
correcting violations, rehabilitation and maintenance while vacant, and future
use(s) of the structure. Said plan of actions must be updated every six months;
      f.   A complete floor plan of the property for use by first responders in
the event of a fire or other catastrophic event;
      g.   Written notice to the city, including a copy of the deed, of a
change in:
         (1)   Ownership of the property;
         (2)   Contact information for the owner of the designated manager.
Written notice must be provided to the city no later than 30 days after said
changes have occurred; and
         (3)   Continued annual registration of the property by the vacant
structure property owner until said structure is deemed occupied and in
compliance with all relevant code requirements by the city.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 4-104 REGISTRATION FEES.
   Vacant structure property owners shall tender an annual registration and
inspection fee of $500 for each vacant property after the initial partial year
of registration, for which no fee shall be due. Subsequent annual registration
fees shall increase by $500 per year of registration, and shall be due and
postmarked no later than January 31 of each year with proceeds to go to
business district maintenance.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 4-105 PROPERTY MANAGER OR AGENT.
   1.   Vacant structure property owners must designate a local manager for
said properties and include a relevant contact information for the designated
manager upon registering the property with the city. The property manager shall
serve as agent for the property owner for purposes of accepting legal service;
however, the vacant property owner remains personally liable in criminal
prosecutions for code violations.
   2.   The property manager or agent must be available at the number listed at
all times in the event of an emergency or catastrophe.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 4-106 STANDARD OF CARE FOR VACANT PROPERTY.
   The standard of care, subject to approval by the City Mayor or his or her
designee, shall include, but is not limited to:
   1.   Window, skylight and door. Every window, storefront, skylight and
exterior door part, including, but not limited to, the frame, the trim, window
screens and hardware shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. All
broken or missing windows shall be replaced with glass and secured in a manner
so as to prevent unauthorized entry. All broken or missing doors shall be
replaced with appropriately sized doors which shall be secured to prevent
unauthorized entry. All glass shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be maintained in
good condition and secured. Locks at all exterior doors, exterior attic access,
windows or exterior hatchways shall tightly secure the opening. Windows and
doors shall not be secured by plywood or other similar means mounted on the
exterior except as a temporary securing measure, and the same shall be removed
within a period of time designated by the City Mayor or his or her designee;
   2.   Structure. All structural members and foundation shall be maintained
free from deterioration, and all be capable of safely supporting the imposed
loads;
   3.   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be kept in good condition and
shall be free from holes, breaks, and loose or rotting materials. Exterior
walls shall be maintained weather-proof and properly surface-coated where
necessary to prevent deterioration;
   4.   Roof and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not
have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
accumulation, dampness or deterioration. Roof drains, gutters and downspouts
shall be maintained in good repair, and operational;
   5.   Interior and exterior areas. The property must be dept free of junk,
trash, debris and combustible materials;
   6.   Vegetation and landscaping. Shall be maintained in good and healthy
condition;
   7.   Premises identification. The property shall have address numbers placed
in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals and/or alphabet letters. Numbers shall
be a minimum of four inches high with a minimum stroke width of one-half inch;
   8.   Overhang extensions and awnings. Overhand extensions including, but not
limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings and fire escapes shall be
maintained in good repair and be properly anchored and supported as to be kept
in a sound and safe condition;
   9.   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway, deck,
porch and balcony and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be maintained
structurally sound, in good repair, with property anchorage, and capable of
supporting the imposed loads;
   10.   Handrails and guards. Every exterior handrail and guards shall be
firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition;
   11.   Protective treatment. Exterior surfaces, including, but not limited
to, doors, door and window frames, porches, balconies, decks and fences, shall
be maintained in good condition, weather-tight and in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests. All exposed surfaces subject to
rust or corrosion, other than decay-resistant woods or surfaces designed for
stabilization by oxidation, shall be protected from the elements and against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather costing materials such as
paint or similar surface treatment. All siding, cladding and masonry joints, as
well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors
and skylights, shall be maintained weather-resistant and water-tight; and
   12.   Repairs. All repairs shall be subject to approval by the city. All
required permits and final inspections prior to and/or following repairs shall
be in accordance with applicable laws and rules.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 4-107 FEE WAIVERS.
   1.   All fee waivers must be applied for on an annual basis, and are subject
to approval by the City Mayor or his or her designee.
   2.   A fee waiver is valid for no more than 12 months, and may be issued for
a shorter period of time.
      a.   Property which has been devastated by a catastrophe such as fire or
flood, the owner has 30 days to register from the date of the disaster but may
be exempt from the fees. This exemption is for the duration of one year from
the date of the catastrophe; thereafter all applicable fees are due.
      b.   A property owner who is indigent must register and is otherwise
subject to this article but may be exempt from the fees.
      c.   Representatives of a property owner who is deceased or is no longer
legally competent must register the property and are otherwise subject to this
article, but may be exempt from the registration fees. If representatives of
the property owner cannot be identified and provisions of this article are
required to be carried out by the city to protect the property, then the city
reserves the right to make corrections and charge the cost to the owner(s) by
filing appropriate liens with the County Clerk.
      d.   Where the owner of the property has obtained a building permit and
is progressing in an expedient manner to prepare the premises for occupancy,
the owner must register the property and is otherwise subject to this article
but may be exempt from the registration fees.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 4-108 JURISDICTION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   1.   Written notice of violation will precede the issuance of a citation, in
which the vacant property owner will be given 30 days, as determined by the
City Mayor or his or her designee, to remedy the violation. Written notice
shall be issued to the vacant structure property owner by means of personal
service, or by first class mail to his or her last known address according to
the county appraisal district records, and by posting on the property.
   2.   Failure to register with the city after written notice to the vacant
structure property owner, as is hereinafter specified, is a violation of this
article.
   3.   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of an
ordinance affecting the public health and safety, and upon conviction shall be
subject to a fine in accordance with the general provisions of this code of
ordinances.
   4.   Administrative, civil and criminal enforcement are alternative remedies
which may be sought independently of each other.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-8-2019)
§§ 4-109 THROUGH 4-149 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: FLOOD
§ 4-150 FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   The legislature of the state has, in 82 O.S. §§ 1601 through 1618 as
amended, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
ordinances designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city ordains the
following, to be effective on and after July 20, 2009.
§ 4-151 FINDING OF FACT.
   1.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extra ordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage.
§ 4-152 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   1.   Protect human life and health;
   2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
§ 4-153 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this article uses the following
methods:
   1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters of which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
§ 4-154 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this article shall be
interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this
article its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the city
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
giving year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or 1% chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BFE. Base flood elevation.
   C.F.R. The Code of Federal Regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Floodplain Administrator
which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in accordance with
this article.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of building in
Zones AE, A and X to have the top of elevated floor adequately anchored so as
not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up to the
magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A and X, ELEVATED
BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with opening sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
flood waters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMS effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the city.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRM. The flood insurance rate map.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      a.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, or
      b.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map of Comanche County on which FEMA
has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium
zones applicable to the Comanche County.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by FEMA for Comanche
County which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by
the City Council to administer and implement laws, ordinances and regulations
relating to the management of floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See definition of FLOOD.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other application of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, ad expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the city subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the depths
of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A FLOODWAY is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in
§ 4-156. A FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      a.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      b.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
      c.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      d.   Individually listed on a locale inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (1)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEANS SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the city’s flood insurance rate map as referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION mean structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by the City Council and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to fixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the City Council.
   OWRB. The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      a.   Built on a single chassis;
      b.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      c.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      d.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under Coastal Barrier Resources Act (being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et
seq.), includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit
was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparations, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures that have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include
either:
      a.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      b.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the City Council to a person from the terms
of this article when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
A VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner
otherwise prohibited by this article. (For full requirements, see 44 C.F.R. §
60.6.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this city flood damage prevention article.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (DAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
§ 4-155 LANDS TO WHICH THIS ARTICLE APPLIES.
   This flood damage prevention ordinance shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city.
§ 4-156 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for Comanche County,
Oklahoma and Incorporated Areas” dated July 20, 2009, with the accompanying
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this article. This article shall go into effect on July 20, 2009.
§ 4-157 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this floodplain management ordinance.
§ 4-158 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this article and other
applicable regulations.
§ 4-159 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this article and any
other ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the most stringent restrictions shall prevail.
§ 4-160 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this article, all provisions shall
be:
   1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
§ 4-161 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This article does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
with such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This article shall
not create liability on the part of the city or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this article or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
§ 4-162 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council designates the Code Enforcement Officer as Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this article and
other appropriate sections of national flood insurance program regulations in
C.F.R. Title 44 pertaining to the floodplain management (being 44 C.F.R. part
60 - Criteria for Land Management and Use).
§ 4-163 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   1.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1620.1, as amended;
   2.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed building
sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonable safe
from flooding;
   3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this article;
   4.   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from
which prior approval are required;
   5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions);
   6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the FEMA;
   7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   8.   When base flood elevation data contemplated by
§ 4-156 has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain Administrator shall
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and
floodway data available from any federal, state or other source, in order to
administer the provisions of this article;
   9.   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator
must require that no new construction, substantial improvements or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE as delineated on
the county FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the city;
   10.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the city, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement;
   11.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a decision
of the City Council; and
   12.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this article.
§ 4-164 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   1.   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required.
      a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
      b.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   2.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all the provisions of this article and the
following relevant factors:
      a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      g.   The expected heights velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      h.   The necessity to the facility of waterfront location, where
applicable;
      i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
§ 4-165 VARIANCES.
   1.   General provisions.
      a.   The City Council may grant variances for uses which do not satisfy
the requirements of the State Floodplain Management Act, being O.S. Chapter 23,
Title 82, or this article, if the applicant for the variance presents adequate
proof that compliance with this article will result in an arbitrary and
unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or advantage to the
people and satisfies the pertinent provisions of this section; provided,
however, no variance shall be granted where the effect of the variance will be
to permit the continuance of a condition which unreasonable creates flooding
hazards.
      b.   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the State Floodplain
Management Act, being O.S. Chapter 23, Title 82, or by other laws of the state.
      c.   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than 20
years.
      d.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the City
Council, accompanied by a filing fee of $25.
      e.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acres or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in
§ 4-156 and provisions of this section have been fully considered. As the lot
size increases beyond the one-half acres, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      f.   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Chairperson of the City
Council which states that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with
the increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower
than the base flood elevation, and such construction below base flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      g.   At such time as the City Council deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the City Council shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
      h.   The City Council shall conduct the hearing and make determinations
in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section. The City Council
shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the equities involved and the
advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to the public at large when
determining whether the variance shall be granted.
      i.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         (4)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      j.   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the
intent of this article, the City Council may attach such conditions to the
granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in
§ 4-152.
      k.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any variance
issued by the City Council shall be sent by the Floodplain Administrator to the
OWRB and FEMA within 15 days after issuance of the variance.
   2.   Special provisions.
      a.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this article.
      b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      c.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      d.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use probed that:
         (1)   The criteria of subsections 1.e.; 1.i.; 2.b.; and 2.c. above are
met; and
         (2)   The structure of other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
§ 4-166 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are design and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
§ 4-167 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevations have been
provided or are otherwise determined as set forth in §
§ 4-156, 4-163 subsection 8. or 4-164 subsection 1., the following provisions
are required.
   1.   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection 1. is
satisfied.
   2.   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot
above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect
or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator
that the standard of this subsection 2. is satisfied.
   3.   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with full
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net are of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   4.   Manufactured homes.
      a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on
the county FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at least 36 inches
above grade or at least at or above the base flood elevation. For the purposes
of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to state law and
compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      b.   (1)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or
substantially improved within Zone AE on the county FIRM on sites:
            (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam for
the manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (2)   A licensed installer shall install the home in accordance with
state law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the
manufactured home.
      c.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zone AE on
the county FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of subsection 4. be
elevated so that the bottom of the I-beam of the manufactured home is at least
one foot above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. A licensed installer shall install the home in accordance with state
law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
   5.   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A and AE on the county FIRM either:
      a.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      c.   Meet the permit requirements of
§ 4-164, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in
subsection 4. above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   6.   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A and AE on the county FIRM shall comply with the following:
      a.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      b.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      c.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or use include but are not limited to working, sleeping, living,
cooking or restroom use;
      d.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must
elevated to or above the BFE;
      e.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      f.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      g.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
      h.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      i.   Opening to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
      j.   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to adjacent
and nearby structures.
§ 4-168 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   1.   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
Zones A and AE which 51 or more lots or greater than five acres shall generate
the base flood elevation date for that subdivision.
   2.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   3.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
§ 4-169 FLOODWAYS.
   The following provision shall apply to floodways.
   1.   Encroachments, including but not limited to, fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited with the adopted
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the city during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   2.   If
§ 4-168 subsection 1. above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of §
§ 4-164 through 4-169.
   3.   The city may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
ARTICLE 6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 4-170 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence or phrase of this article is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
article.
§ 4-171 PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this article and other
applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate or other certifications required in this article is presumed to be
in violation until such time as that documentation is provided, (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
article or fails to comply with any of its requirement shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more $500 or imprisoned for not more than one year or
both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council
or its City Attorney from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy and violation. (See
Chapter 1 and
Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances.)
§ 4-172 STRUCTURE NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   [Reserved for future use]
§ 4-173 MOVEMENT OF FRAME BUILDINGS.
   No frame building shall be moved from without to within the corporate limits
of the city, which by reason of its age, state of repair, condition of wiring
or which, for any other reason, is unfit for human habitation or which might
endanger the public peace, safety, health or welfare.
§ 4-174 PLUMBERS, ELECTRICIANS AND MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS REGISTRATION.
   1.   No person shall do any plumbing, gas fitting, extensions, connection of
fixtures or repairs to any gas fitting in the city, except a state-licensed and
locally-registered plumber. Any person desiring to engage in the business of
plumbing or plumbing contracting shall first register with the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer. All registrant shall be state-licensed and furnish copy
of liability insurance and workman’s compensation insurance coverage.
   2.   The initial registration fee shall be $300. Renewal registration fee
shall be $50 per year.
   3.   All persons, firm, partnership, corporations or individuals, engaged or
hereafter engaging, in the business of installing, electrical fixtures, wiring
or apparatus in or on any building within the city, shall register with the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer before they may engage in said activities.
All registrants shall be state-licensed and furnish copy of liability insurance
and worker’s compensation insurance coverage.
   4.   The initial registration fee shall be $300. Renewal registration fee
shall be $50 per year.
   5.   All persons in the business of mechanical contracting, such as,
designing, assembling, erecting, constructing, installing, altering, servicing,
repairing or maintaining refrigeration, air conditioning, heating and/or
ventilation systems in the city must first register with the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer. All registrants must be state-licensed and furnish copy of
liability insurance and workman’s compensation insurance coverage.
   6.   The initial registration fee shall be $300. Renewal registration fee
shall be $50 per year.
   7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, move, add to, or
structurally alter any building or other structure upon any lot or parcel of
land within the city; must first register as a building contractor, with the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. All registrants must be state-licensed and
furnish copy of liability insurance and worker’s compensation insurance
coverage.
      a.   A building contractor’s registration certificate is not required by
persons who have a valid certificate for other specialized trades required by
this code and provided the work performed falls under the requirements of that
certification.
      b.   Resident owners of property are not required to obtain a building
contractor’s registration certificate when performing work on their own
property provided the work is performed by the owner, except for required
specialized trade contractors who hold a valid certificate from the city. This
exemption does not relieve the owner from obtaining a building permit as
required by this code.
   8.   The initial registration fee shall be $100. The renewal registration
fee shall be $50 per year.
   9.   Every person owning, leasing, operating or in possession of any
building or structure within the city shall permit the Municipal Building
Inspector to enter such building or structure as often as it shall be deemed
necessary by said Inspector for the purpose of discharging any duties
prescribed by this section, and it shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or
lessee of any premises to prevent or to refuse to permit such entry. Said
Inspector shall, upon request of the owner, occupant or lessee of any premises,
exhibit the authority to make such entry.
   10.   The Municipal Building Inspector shall not approve any application for
contractor’s registration until he or she is satisfied that said contractor has
obtained public liability insurance that shall indemnify the city and public in
the amounts of not less than $5,000 for bodily injury to or death of one person
in any one accident; or in an amount not less than $10,000 for personal injury
or death or more than one person in any one accident; or $1,000 for property
damages; all arising out of work to be performed under said registration.
   11.   The Municipal Building Inspector may revoke or suspend the
registration of any person, persons or corporation convicted of any violation
of this chapter, or for any of the following reasons:
      a.   Willful fraud or misrepresentation practiced in procuring or
renewing any registration or license;
      b.   Dishonesty;
      c.   Gross incompetency;
      d.   Conduct likely to, or intended to, deceive or defraud the public;
      e.   The loaning of any license, registration or permit to any person or
persons for any reason whatsoever;
      f.   The obtaining of compensation by fraud or misrepresentation;
      g.   The willful advertising or publishing, or otherwise making known, of
any grossly false, fraudulent or misleading statements of business skill,
knowledge or methods of operation;
      h.   The construction, design, installation, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any refrigeration or air conditioning equipment in such a manner
as to be detrimental to the safety, health or welfare of the general public;
      i.   For any misconduct in the use of a registration or transaction
thereunder; or
      j.   For the violation or disregard of any regulations of the city.
   12.   If, in the performance of any work under this chapter, the contractor
finds that, on account of the mechanical construction of the building, location
of fixtures, or some other reason, it would be impossible to abide by the
letter of this chapter, the Municipal Building Inspector may be asked for a
variance, by stating reasons for any changes and setting forth the conditions,
with a statement of the desire to request exceptions to the provisions of this
chapter for the particular job. If said Inspector finds that the conditions
warrant and that it would be impractical and unreasonable to require strict
conformance, a special ruling may be made, to safeguard life and property, on
the proposed work. In all such cases, persons engaged in such work or
installation, and holding registration under this chapter, shall be notified in
writing of the decision.
§ 4-175 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   1.   A grease interceptor shall be installed in the waste line leading from
sinks, drains or other fixtures in restaurants, hotel kitchens, cafeterias and
food processing establishments, and in any bar, lounge, private club or
fountain where food is prepared or served, or where dishes, glasses, pots, pans
or other kitchenwares are washed, or any other establishment where grease or
broken glass can be introduced into the drainage system in quantities that can
effect line stoppage or hinder sewage disposal. Grease, oil and sand
interceptors are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other ingredients
harmful to the building’s drainage system, the public sewer or the municipal
sewage treatment plant.
   2.   Interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
residential dwelling units.
   3.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as defined in the
city’s current adopted Plumbing Code and shall be approved by the Municipal
Building Inspector. All interceptors shall be located so as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be
properly inspected following construction, by the Municipal Building Inspector,
and shall be privately maintained, at the owner’s expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
   4.   An oil separator shall be installed in the drainage system of any
establishment where, in the judgment of the Municipal Building Inspector, a
hazard exists or where oils or other flammables can be introduced or admitted
into the public sewer by accident or otherwise.
   5.   All garages, filling stations and car washes having car wash racks or
facilities shall install combination grit and grease interceptors.
   6.   All commercial laundries shall be equipped with an interceptor having a
removable wire basket or similar device that will prevent strings, rags,
buttons or other materials detrimental to the municipal sewer system from
passing into the drainage system.
   7.   Bottling plants shall discharge all processed wastes into an
interceptor which will provide for the separation of broken glass or other
solids, before discharging liquid wastes into the municipal sewer or storm
drainage systems.
   8.   Slaughterhouses shall equip all slaughtering room drains with a
separator which shall prevent the discharge of feathers, entrails and other
material likely to clog the drainage system.
   9.   All existing establishments listed in subsection 1. above shall have 90
days from the effective date of this code of ordinances to install an improved
interceptor or separator. Establishments covered under subsection 4. above will
be handled on a case-by-case basis to determine whether an oil separator is
required. All establishments covered under subsection 1. above, constructed
henceforth, shall include an approved interceptor.
   10.   The Municipal Building Inspector, Utilities Superintendent or Mayor
shall have the right of entry during usual business hours, to conduct an
inspection of an interceptor or separator.
   11.   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be served
with written notice stating the violation and providing 72 hours for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. In the event an
establishment is cited with a second violation within six months of the first,
the time allowed for correction shall be reduced to 48 hours. A third citation
within six months from the first violation will be cause for the city to
immediately discontinue water service to the establishment, during which time
the offender shall correct the violation.
   12.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection 11. above and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3, § 50 of this code of ordinances for each violation. Each day in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
§ 4-176 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All off-street parking shall be designed, constructed and utilized in
accordance with the provisions and requirements contained in the community’s
adopted zoning ordinance and subdivision regulations ordinance.
§ 4-177 SMOKE DETECTORS IN MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   1.   No building permit shall be issued for new construction or
rehabilitation of any multi-family structure designed for human occupancy,
unless the plans for the same include smoke detection devices.
   2.   No variance from this requirement shall be allowed, and the Municipal
Building Inspector shall have the power and duty to prohibit occupancy of
structures in violation hereof, until such time as the structure comes into
compliance with the requirements of this section.
§ 4-178 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OVERSPEED CONTROL. A mechanism used to limit the speed of blade rotation
below the design limits of the wind energy conversion system.
      SITE. The plot of land where the wind energy conversion system is to be
placed. The site could be publicly or privately owned (by an individual or a
group of individuals controlling single or adjacent properties).
      SWEPT AREA. The largest area of the wind energy conversion system which
extracts energy from the wind stream. In a conventional propeller-type wind
energy conversion system, there is a direct relationship between swept area and
the rotor diameter.
      TOTAL HEIGHT. The height of the tower and the farthest vertical extension
of the wind energy conversion system.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). A machine that converts the kinetic
energy in the wind into a usable form (commonly known as a wind turbine or
windmill). The WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM includes all parts of the system,
and shall be considered as a structure.
   2.   Building permit applications (see
§ 4-20) for a wind energy conversion system shall be accompanied by a site plan
drawn in sufficient detail to clearly describe the following:
      a.   Property lines and physical dimensions of the site;
      b.   Location, approximate dimensions and types of major existing
structures and uses on the site;
      c.   Location and elevation of the proposed wind energy conversion
system;
      d.   Location of all above-ground utility lines on-site or within a
distance radius equal to the total height of the wind energy conversion system;
      e.   Location and size of structures and trees over 35 feet in height,
which are within a 500-foot radius of the proposed wind energy conversion
system; for purposes of this requirement, electrical transmission and
distribution lines, antennas and slender or open lattice towers are not
considered structures; and
      f.   The zoning designation of immediate and adjacent sites.
   3.   Before a building permit may be issued, all requirements of this
section must be met. This section covers those wind energy conversion systems
whose swept area is 1,000 square feet or less; for conventional propeller wind
energy conversion systems, this would be approximately 35 feet or less in
diameter. (Non-electrical windmills used for pumping water may be exempted from
the remaining provisions of this section.)
   4.   Building permit applications shall be accompanied by standard drawings
of the structural components of the wind energy conversion system, including
support structure, tower, base and footings. Drawings and any necessary
calculations shall be certified in writing by a registered professional
engineer or manufacturer’s representative, to show that the system complies
with the adopted Building Code. (This certification would normally be supplied
by the manufacturer.) Where the structural components or installation vary from
the standard design or specification, the proposed modifications shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer for compliance with the
structural design provisions of the adopted Building Code.
   5.   Building permit applications shall be accompanied by a line drawing
identifying the electrical components of the system to be installed, in
sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner of installation
conforms to the adopted Electrical Code. The application shall include a
statement from a registered professional engineer indicating that the
electrical system conforms with good engineering practices and complies with
said Electrical Code. (This certification would normally be supplied by the
manufacturer.) All equipment and materials shall be used or installed in
accordance with such drawings and diagrams. Where the electrical components of
an installation vary from the standard design or specifications, the proposed
modifications shall be reviewed and certified by a registered professional
engineer for compliance with the requirements of said Electrical Code and good
engineering practices.
   6.   Each wind energy conversion system must be equipped with both manual
and automatic controls to limit the rotational speed of the blade below the
design limits of the rotor. The application must include a statement by a
registered professional engineer certifying that the rotor and overspeed
controls have been designed and fabricated for the proposed use in accordance
with good engineering practices. The engineer should also certify the
structural compatibility of possible towers with available rotors. (This
certification would normally be supplied by the manufacturer.)
   7.   Anchor points for guy wires for the wind energy conversion system tower
shall be located within property lines and not on or across any above-ground
electric transmission or distribution lines. The point of ground attachment for
the guy wires shall be enclosed by a fence six feet high, or the wind energy
conversion system shall be set back from the property line or site parameters
the total height of the wind energy conversion system.
   8.   Towers should have either a tower-climbing apparatus located no closer
than 12 feet from the ground, a locked anti-climb device installed on the
tower, or the tower shall be completely enclosed by a locked, protective fence
at least six feet high.
   9.   The wind energy conversion system shall meet the requirements of any
existing municipal noise regulations.
   10.   The wind energy conversion system shall be operated such that no
disruptive electromagnetic interference is caused. If it has been demonstrated
to the Municipal Building Inspector that a wind energy conversion system is
causing harmful interference, the operator shall be required to promptly
mitigate the harmful interference.
   11.   At least one sign shall be posted at the base of the tower warning of
electrical shock or high voltage.
   12.   The minimum height of the lowest part of the wind energy conversion
system shall be 30 feet above the highest existing major structure or any tree
within a 250-foot radius. For purposes of this requirement, electrical
transmission and distribution lines, antennas and slender or open-lattice
towers are not considered structures.
   13.   The wind energy conversion system shall be located such that the
farthest extension of the apparatus does not cross any site lines.
   14.   For wind energy conversion systems which will be interconnected to a
utility grid, no wind turbine shall be installed until evidence has been given
that the utility company has been notified in writing.
   15.   If a wind energy conversion system is not maintained in operational
condition for a period of one year and poses a potential safety hazard, the
owner or operator shall take expeditious action to remedy the situation. If the
city determines that the wind energy conversion system has been abandoned and
poses a safety hazard, the system shall be removed within 45 days of written
notice to the owner or operator of the system.
   16.   The applicant, owner, leasee or assignee shall maintain a current
insurance policy which will cover installation and operation of the wind energy
conversion system at all times. Said policy shall provide a minimum of $50,000
property and personal liability coverage.
§ 4-179 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES NOT LIABLE.
   1.   Any officer or employee of the city charged with the enforcement of
this chapter and acting in good faith and without malice, for the city in the
discharge of official duties, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally,
and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or omission required or
permitted in the discharge of such duties.
   2.   Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of such act or
omission performed in the enforcement of any provisions of such codes may be
defended by the Municipal Attorney until the final termination of the
proceedings.
§§ 4-109 THROUGH 4-149 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 7: PENALTY
§ 4-200 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to do anything required by
this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, who shall otherwise
violate any provision of this chapter or of any code adopted by this chapter,
or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers
provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed the limits
established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues,
shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 5: BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS
Section
Article 1: Peddlers and Itinerant Occupations
   
5-1   Definitions
   
5-2   License required; exclusions
   
5-3   Application for license
   
5-4   Investigation of applicant and issuance of license; fees
   
5-5   Revocation of license; term of license; renewal
   
5-6   Hours of solicitation; transfer and exhibition of license
   
5-7   Definitions
   
5-8   General requirements
   
5-9   Specific regulations for mobile food-service establishment preparation
and sales
   
5-10   Specific regulations for mobile food-service establishments; sales only
   
5-11   Fees
   
5-12 through 5-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Fair Housing
   
5-20   Certain acts prohibited
   
5-21   Certain acts exempted
   
5-22   Fair Housing Board created
   
5-23   Grievance procedures
   
5-24 through 5-39 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Private Ambulance Services
   
5-40 through 5-59 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Child Care Centers
   
5-60   Definitions
   
5-61   Permit required
   
5-62   Location of child care facility
   
5-63   Permit application
   
5-64   Review of application
   
5-65   Term of permit
   
5-66   Standard required; suspension of state license
   
5-67   Termination of facilities as nonconforming uses
   
5-68   Attendance at state sponsored workshops
   
5-69 through 5-79 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Pawnbrokers
   
5-80   Pawnbroker defined
   
5-81   License
   
5-82   Pawn ticket to be furnished
   
5-83   Records to be kept
   
5-84   Daily report to the police
   
5-85   Safekeeping of pledges
   
5-86   Forfeiture of pawn
   
5-87   Disposal of goods during redemption period restricted
   
5-88   Right of entry and inspection
   
5-89   Registration of employees
   
5-90   Employment of minors prohibited
   
5-91   Transactions with minors, drunkards, narcotic addicts and felons
   
5-92 through 5-99 Reserved for future use
Article 6: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
5-100   Sale of merchandise on vacant property
   
5-101   Shooting galleries
   
5-102   Short weights and measures prohibited
   
5-103   Reserved for future use
   
5-104   Junkyard and salvage yard regulations
   
5-105   Amusement devices
   
5-106   Used car lots
   
5-107   Circus and carnival
   
5-108 through 5-149 Reserved for future use
Article 7: Medical Marijuana
   
5-150   Definitions
   
5-151   General requirements
   
5-152   Medical marijuana dispensary
   
5-153   Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facility
   
5-154   Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage
   
5-155   Penalty
   
5-156 through 5-179 Reserved for future use
Article 8: Penalty
   
5-180   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS
§ 5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §
§ 5-2 through
5-6, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT OCCUPATION. Those occupations, trades, businesses and
solicitations having no permanent warehouse, building, structure, residence or
place of business within the city at which a permanent business is carried on
throughout the year or usual production season in good faith (and not for the
purpose of evading the provisions of this chapter), and shall include
occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations housed in temporary stands or
quarters (including permanent quarters occupied pursuant to any temporary
arrangement), or carried on by means of house-to-house solicitation or upon the
streets and sidewalks of the city; provided, however, that, no occupation,
trade or business engaged in by a charitable, educational or religious
organization, association or club, having a membership duly enrolled in
accordance with the rules, regulations and by-laws of said organization,
association or club and the majority of said members being residents of the
city or of the county shall be considered an ITINERANT OCCUPATION, TRADE,
BUSINESS OR SOLICITATION.
   PEDDLER. Includes the words HAWKER and HUCKSTER and shall mean any person
who travels by foot or by any type of conveyance from place to place, from
house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting
goods, wares or merchandise of whatsoever nature, offering and exposing the
same for sale, or who does not travel from place to place, and shall sell or
offer the same for sale from any vehicle or conveyance or on any public street
or thoroughfare.
   PERSON. Any individual, and shall not extend and be applied to firms,
corporations or any other organizations.
   SOLICITOR and CANVASSER. A person who travels by foot or by any type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders from the same of goods, wares, merchandise
or personal property of whatsoever nature for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future.
§ 5-2 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCLUSIONS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
peddler, solicitor, canvasser or any other itinerant occupation within the
corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a license therefor, as
provided in this article, and paying the prescribed fees to cover the
reasonable costs of investigation and processing of the application. The fee
shall be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer when the application is filed and
shall not be returnable under any circumstances. The City Council, from time to
time, may change such fee by ordinance, to an amount not to exceed the
reasonable costs of licensing and enforcement under this article.
   2.   The following persons are hereby specifically excluded from the
application of the provisions of this article:
      a.   Persons engaged in selling personal property at wholesale to dealers
in such property; and
      b.   Merchants growing their own local produce, and having regular places
of business in the city and their employees in taking orders at the houses of
their customers for goods held in stock at said places of business, and in
delivering the goods so ordered; such exclusion shall not apply to a person
who, personally or for another person, firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within said city, for the
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
§ 5-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   1.   Applicants for a license hereunder shall file with the City Clerk-
Treasurer, in duplicate, a sworn application in writing, on a form to be
furnished by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   2.   The application shall give the following information:
      a.   Full name, birthdate and Social Security number of each individual
applicant;
      b.   Address, both legal and local;
      c.   Nature of business and kinds of goods to be sold, and if the
applicant is a farmer or truck gardener, whether said goods are produced or
personally-owned, cultivated and controlled;
      d.   If employed by another, the name and address of the applicant’s
employer, together with a brief description of credentials showing the exact
relationship;
      e.   Length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      f.   Description and license number of any vehicle to be used; and
      g.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
a felony, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor.
   3.   Each individual applicant for a license shall provide written proof
that the applicant will collect and remit state and local sales taxes to the
city, if required by state law and municipal ordinance.
   4.   Each individual applicant for a license shall submit with the
application a surety bond or cash in the amount of $1,000, executed by the
applicant and by a surety company qualified to do business within the state.
The bond shall run in favor of the city, but action may be taken on the bond by
any citizen who has been damaged by the applicant. If more than one applicant
shall be employed by the same employer, the employer may furnish the surety
bond in lieu of the applicant, and the amount of such bond shall be the total
number of employees multiplied by $1,000. The employer shall have the privilege
of changing employees, but the number of employees shall never exceed the
amount listed in the original bond filed. Any increase in the number of
employees shall require either individual surety bonds for the additional
employees, or an increase in the amount of the original surety bond in the
amount of $1,000 for each additional employee. Any employer furnishing such a
bond shall furnish to the City Clerk-Treasurer a current list of employees
covered by the bond.
§ 5-4 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEES.
   1.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall refer one copy to the Chief of Police who shall note thereon any record
concerning the applicant which may appear from the official records and return
the same promptly to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   2.   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall cause such other investigation or
inquiry to be made concerning the applicant as may be deemed necessary to
determine the character and business responsibility of the applicant and
whether the application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this
article.
   3.   If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory and the
application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this article, the
City Clerk-Treasurer, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, shall issue
the license, together with any badge, tag or other materials properly an
accompaniment thereto.
   4.   If, as a result of the investigation provided for in this article, the
applicant’s character or business responsibility are found to be
unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police or the City Clerk-Treasurer shall endorse
on such application disapproval thereof and the reasons for the same, and the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall then notify the applicant that the application has
been disapproved and that no license will be issued.
   5.   Any applicant aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the
City Clerk-Treasurer in the denial of a license as provided in subsection 4.
above, shall have the right to appeal therefrom to the City Council. Such
appeal shall be filed, in writing with the City Council, within 14 days after
notice of the action complained of has been given to the applicant personally
or mailed, postage prepaid, to the last known address thereof. The City Council
shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such
hearing shall be given to the applicant at least five days prior to the date
set for hearing. The decision and order of the City Council on such appeal
shall be final and conclusive.
   6.   A fee of $35 per day, $75 for three days or $100 for seven days, shall
be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer at the time of application, with exception
of mobile ice cream and snow-cone sales operators, licensed to sell their
products by the appropriate state and local business and health authorities,
for which a fee of $20 per calendar year shall be paid.
§ 5-5 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWAL.
   1.   Licenses issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked by
the City Clerk-Treasurer of the city, after notice has been served on the
applicant for any of the following causes:
      a.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application;
      b.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
carrying on business as a solicitor or canvasser;
      c.   Any violation of this article;
      d.   Conviction of any felony involving moral turpitude; or
      e.   Conducting the business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   2.   Notice of revocation of a license shall be in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place for a hearing
where the decision to revoke may be appealed to the City Council. Such notice
shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided in
§ 5-4, subsection 5., for notice of hearing on approval of an application for a
license.
§ 5-6 HOURS OF SOLICITATION; TRANSFER AND EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   1.   No solicitation shall be conducted between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and
10:00 a.m. each day, because of the need for public security and protection;
provided, however, that, solicitations may be made where the person solicited
has agreed by previously-arranged appointment for a time other than during the
prescribed hours.
   2.   No license or badge issued under the provisions of this article shall
be used or worn at any time by any person other than the person to whom it was
issued.
   3.   Peddlers, solicitors, canvassers and other itinerant occupations are
required to exhibit and display their licenses or authorized evidence thereof
at all times, whenever they are engaged in peddling, canvassing or soliciting.
§ 5-7 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §
§ 5-8 through 5-11, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT-PREPARATION AND SALES. A mobile
establishment that contains a kitchen area where food is prepared and/or
cooked, then sold for immediate consumption.
   MOBILE FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT-SALES ONLY. A mobile establishment that
conducts sales of pre-packaged foods. This shall not include establishments
that only deliver pre-sold items to established customers.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 5-8 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Mobile food-service establishments shall only operate out of vehicles
that have been approved and licensed by the Health Department.
   2.   Mobile food-service establishments shall not be located at a single
location or address for more than 12 hours in a 24-hour period. A single
location or address shall include a single parking lot shared by multiple
businesses or tenants. At the end of the 12-hour period the mobile food-service
establishment shall be removed.
   3.   Permission from the nearest business must be obtained by the mobile
food-service establishment for use of restroom facilities. The restroom
facilities shall be conveniently located and accessible to employees during all
hours of operation.
   4.   Mobile food-service establishments that are invited to participate in a
city permitted event, fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition or similar
transitory gathering shall be allowed to operate during all hours in which the
event is open to the public and shall be allowed to remain at such location
during the duration of the event.
   5.   Mobile food-service establishments shall obtain permission before
operation on any property from the owner of said property.
   6.   Unless part of a city permitted event as described above, a mobile
food-service establishment may obtain a city property operation permit to
operate on a city owned property such as parks, provided that they meet all of
the following guidelines:
      a.   Application must be received at least two business days prior to
setting up at the proposed location;
      b.   All applications must be approved by the Community Services Director
and the Parks and Recreation Director or their respective designees;
      c.   Use of delineated parking areas shall be avoided;
      d.   If the application is approved, the mobile food-service
establishment shall pay a fee provided for in the fee schedule. The time frame
of the temporary permit will be for up to three consecutive days;
      e.   The mobile food-service establishment permitted to operate on the
city park property shall only operate during the park hours of 6:00 a.m. to 11:
00 p.m., or as posted at each park;
      f.   A city property operation permit shall not allow the setup and
operation on public right-of-way or easement;
      g.   The area used by the mobile food-service establishments shall have
all trash and appurtenances removed at the end each day or when the mobile
food-service establishment leaves the location, whichever comes first; and
      h.   Failure to comply with this code could result in the City Clerk
revoking the right to be issued a city property operation permit for a period
up to 12 months.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 5-9 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT PREPARATION
AND SALES.
   1.   No more than 10% of the required off-street parking space or loading
area will be utilized by the establishment at each location when conducting
operations at an existing business location during normal business hours of
business.
   2.   Mobile food-service establishments-preparation and sales must return to
a commissary daily for wastewater disposal, maintenance, cleaning and the like
as required by Health Department regulations.
   3.   Mobile food-service establishments-preparation and sales shall set out
a trash receptacle for all customers to use. It shall be the responsibility of
the mobile food-service establishment to empty the receptacle in a timely
fashion. Any overflowing of trash could be considered littering and eligible
for fines in accordance with
Chapter 12 of this code of ordinances.
   4.   A valid food handler’s certification is required for every occupant of
the establishment and certifications must be available within the vehicle for
inspection by city, county or state officials during hours of operation.
   5.   Mobile food-service establishments-preparation and sales shall not be
required to be issued an identification badge.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 5-10 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS; SALES ONLY.
   1.   Mobile food-service establishments-sales only are allowed when all
occupants of the establishment possess a current and valid city-issued
identification badge and permit. The city-issued identification badge shall be
worn or attached to the occupant’s outside clothing and be visible to all
customers during hours of operation.
      a.   Application for city-issued identification badge shall be made
through the city’s licensing agent upon forms provided by the city.
      b.   All applications for an identification badge shall be immediately
referred to the Police Department for background investigation as to the truth
thereof, which investigation shall be conducted as provided in this article.
      c.   The Police Department shall deny the application if the
investigation shows that the applicant:
         (1)   Has been convicted within three years immediately preceding the
date of the application, of any felony or misdemeanor offenses when the Police
Department determines that such conviction will reasonably and directly
indicate a potential risk to the public safety;
         (2)   Has, within one year immediately preceding the date of the
application, made misrepresentation of material facts on the application, made
alteration of any kind on a previously city-issued license or permitted another
person to use such license or permit; or
         (3)   Upon a finding that the applicant has been dealing in defective
goods.
      d.   If the application has been denied, the applicant will be advised of
the denial and that an appeal of a denied application may be submitted to the
City Council by delivering a written appeal to the City Clerk within 15
calendar days from the date of the denial.
      e.    If the application is approved, a city-issued identification badge
shall be issued after payment of the fees as provided in the fee schedule and
the presentation of two recent personal passport type photographs.
   2.   Occupants within said establishment shall not be required a food
handler’s certification.
   3.   Establishments may be allowed to stop upon streets classified as local
streets, as defined by the subdivision regulations or the long range
transportation plan, to conduct sales and only if said street has a posted
speed limit of 25 mph or less, but in no case shall establishment block any
traffic or create a hazardous condition.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 5-11 FEES.
   There shall be a fee for mobile food-service establishments that operate
within the city limits of the city. The mobile food-service establishment shall
pay an annual fee of $50.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 11-18-2019; Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§§ 5-12 THROUGH 5-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: FAIR HOUSING
§ 5-20 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or the authorized
agents or representatives of said person, firm or corporation to:
   1.   Refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title or
other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential housing
is to be constructed, to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, handicap, familial status, religion or national origin;
   2.   Refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or lease of
any residential property, or to represent that such property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental or lease, when in fact it is so available, because
of such person’s race, color, handicap, familial status, religion, age or
national origin;
   3.   Solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person owning
any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not to sell,
rent or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss of value due to
the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons
of another race, color, handicap, religion, age or national origin, either by
direct solicitation or inducement, or to distribute, or cause to be
distributed, material or statements designed to induce a residential property
owner to sell or lease such property, due to such change in a neighborhood; or
   4.   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this article, with
knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment.
§ 5-21 CERTAIN ACTS EXEMPTED.
   Nothing herein shall apply to:
   1.   Prohibit persons from giving preference to prospective buyers or
tenants for any reason other than race, color, handicap, familial status,
religion, age or national origin;
   2.   The sale of a dwelling which is, or was at the time when first offered
for sale, the residence of its owner;
   3.   The rental of rooms in an owner-occupied residence or in a dwelling
used exclusively as a rooming house;
   4.   The rental or leasing of a housing unit in a building containing not
more than eight housing units; or
   5.   The rental or leasing of a dwelling or housing unit owned by any
religious or fraternal organization, or private club used and occupied for such
organizational purposes.
§ 5-22 FAIR HOUSING BOARD CREATED.
   See
Chapter 1, §
1-59 of this code of ordinances.
§ 5-23 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by a discriminatory housing practice prohibited by
municipal ordinance may file a written, signed complaint with the Fair Housing
Board.
   2.   Said complaint shall state the name and address of the person alleged
to have violated the provisions of this article, or any other municipal
ordinance, and shall set forth the particulars of said violation.
   3.   The Fair Housing Board shall receive such complaint, investigate its
allegations and set a date for a hearing to be held on the complaint; said
hearing shall be held within 60 days of the date of receipt of the complaint.
   4.   At least ten days prior to the hearing, the person named in the
complaint and the complainant shall be notified, in writing, of the time and
place of such hearing.
   5.   The Fair Housing Board shall take, and may allow, such actions at the
hearing, as may be necessary to ensure that all parties are afforded the
opportunity to fairly present their cases.
   6.   If the Fair Housing Board, by majority vote at the conclusion of the
hearing, finds that the person has not engaged in any discriminatory housing
practice, it shall state its findings and dismiss the case.
   7.   If the Fair Housing Board, by majority vote at said hearing, finds that
the person engaged in discriminatory housing practices, it shall state its
findings in writing and submit them to the respondent and the City Attorney for
consideration. Unless the complaint is withdrawn or the City Attorney finds
that there is insufficient information upon which to base a charge, the charge
shall be filed in the City Municipal Court, within 20 days of said hearing.
§§ 5-24 THROUGH 5-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: PRIVATE AMBULANCE SERVICES
§§ 5-40 THROUGH 5-59 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: CHILD CARE CENTERS
§ 5-60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person who has not attained the age of 18.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. Any public or private residential facility child
placing agency, foster family home, group home day care center, part-day child
care program or family day care home, providing either full-time or part-time
care for children away from their own homes, and which is owned or controlled
by a political subdivision a corporation, an unincorporated organization or
association or individual.
   DAY CARE. The provision of care and supervision of a child who resides in
its own home or with relatives but is in the care of another person for part of
the day who is conducting a family day care home or person conducting a day
care center.
   DAY CARE CENTERS. A licensed or approved facility which provides care and
supervision for eight or more children and which operates for more than 30
hours per week. The term DAY CARE CENTER shall not include informal
arrangements which parents make independently with neighbors, friends and
others, or caretakers in the child’s home.
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A licensed or approved family home which provides care
and protection for seven or fewer children for part of the 24-hour day, and is
operated by no more than one wholly self-employed person residing at and
inhabiting the dwelling. The term FAMILY DAY CARE HOME shall not include
informal arrangements which parents make independently with neighbors, friends
and others, or caretakers in the child’s own home.
   PART-DAY CHILD CARE PROGRAM. A licensed facility which provides care and
supervision for eight or more children which operates for more than 15 but less
than 30 hours per week.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 5-61 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   No person shall conduct, engage in or operate in any manner a child
care facility within the city without having first obtained a permit as
provided for in this article. A separate permit shall be required for each
location at which a child facility shall be operated.
   2.   The permit fees shall be as provided in the fee schedule. However,
political subdivisions of this state are exempt from payment of the fees for a
child care facility owned and operated directly by the political subdivision.
   3.   The permit as provided for in this article shall be prominently
displayed on the premises of the day care facility.
   4.   All public advertisement of child care facilities shall clearly display
the city’s permit number as provided for in this article.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 5-62 LOCATION OF CHILD CARE FACILITY.
   1.   No permit shall be issued for any child care facility applying for a
permit after November 20, 1984, when the child care facility will be located
within 300 feet of the property of any mixed beverage licensee or tavern
measured from the nearest point of the mixed beverage licensee or tavern land
on which there is located a mixed beverage licensee or tavern building in
normal use for such purpose to the nearest point of the proposed childcare
facility, following the most direct point to point measurement.
   2.   The location of the child care facility shall also meet the
requirements of (
Chapter 15 Planning and Zoning) of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 5-63 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An applicant for a permit for a child care facility shall furnish to the
city the following information:
   1.   Full name and address of the applicant;
   2.   The location at which the proposed child care facility is to be
operated; and
   3.   An affidavit from the applicant to the effect that he or she complies
fully with the licensing requirements for child care centers established by the
state and has a valid license issued by the State Department of Human Services,
or has been approved for such license by the local licensing services unit.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 5-64 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Upon each application for a child care facility, the license officer shall
investigate, or cause to be investigated, the application and building or
premises to determine:
   1.   If the city ordinances concerning zoning are complied with and report
the findings in writing;
   2.   If city ordinances concerning traffic safety are complied with and
report the findings in writing;
   3.   If the city ordinances concerning sanitation are complied with and
report the findings in writing;
   4.   If city ordinances health and safety are complied with and report the
findings in writing;
   5.   If city ordinances concerning fire and safety are complied with and
report the findings in writing; and
   6.   If city ordinances concerning building safety are complied with and
report the fmdings in writing.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 5-65 TERM OF PERMIT.
   Permits shall be issued for periods of one year expiring one year after
their date of issue, and are subject to review and termination by the City
Attorney. Such permits shall expire on the anniversary date or issue each year.
Application for renewal of such permits shall be made in accordance with
§ 5-63.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 5-66 STANDARD REQUIRED; SUSPENSION OF STATE LICENSE.
   1.   No child care facility shall be operated within the city unless a valid
license issued by the State Department of Human Services, Division of Children
and Youth Services and all standards for day as established by the state are
complied with.
   2.   Upon suspension or revocation of the license issued by the state it is
understood that the permit issued by the city shall be immediately suspended or
revoked until such time as state licensing is renewed.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 5-67 TERMINATION OF FACILITIES AS NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A day care center located within the R-l or R-2 Zoning District on
September 4, 1973 may be maintained and repaired, except as otherwise provided
for in this section.
   2.   A nonconforming day care center may not be enlarged or expanded in any
manner to increase its nonconforming either in area or use.
   3.   A nonconforming day care center will be terminated immediately if the
permit holder or ownership of the property or facility changes.
   4.   A family day care home may continue in operation under the amended
definition of day care home as a nonconforming use until August 11, 1984;
provided that the day care home was properly licensed by the city for eight
children between March 8, 1988, and that the applicant can document that the
facility was licensed with the Department of Human Services, Division of
Children and Youth Services, as a day care center for eight children or less,
or that the day care home application was properly submitted to the city for
eight children prior to August 11, 1988; and further provided that if the
permit holder or ownership of the property or facility changes, then the
current definition of a family day care home will apply.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 5-68 ATTENDANCE AT STATE SPONSORED WORKSHOPS.
   Each child care facility shall send at least one representative to attend at
least half the number of child workshops held in the city and sponsored by the
State Department of Human Services. At least one representative from each
facility shall attend the Red Cross first aid workshop at least once a year.
Failure to comply with this section shall be grounds for revocation of the city
permit.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 12-8-2014)
§§ 5-69 THROUGH 5-79 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: PAWNBROKERS
§ 5-80 PAWNBROKER DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property or
deals in the purchase or possession of personal property on condition of
selling the same back to the pledger or depositor, or who loans or advances
money on personal property by taking mortgage security thereon, and takes or
receives such personal property into his or her possession.
§ 5-81 LICENSE.
   1.   No person shall conduct or transact a pawnbroking business or pawnshop
in the city without first having procured a license therefor as hereinafter
provided. Then annual fee for such license shall be $20. No license shall be
issued to any person whose license has been revoked under the provisions of
this article for a period of one year after the date of revocation. No person
who has been convicted of a felony shall be eligible to receive such license at
any time.
   2.   Application for a pawnbroker’s license shall be made to the City Clerk-
Treasurer. The application shall state the name of the person, and in case of
firm or corporation, the names of the persons comprising such firm, or the
officers and stockholders of such corporation; also the place, street and
number where such business is to be carried on and such other information as
may be deemed pertinent by the City Clerk-Treasurer or the Chief of Police.
Applicants who were not licensed pawnbrokers in the city must be fingerprinted
and photographed by the Police Department. Applicants for renewal of
pawnbroker’s licenses shall not be required to fingerprinted or photographed.
   3.   At the time of filing the application for a pawnbroker’s license, the
applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk-Treasurer, the fee required for
said license. The fee, less a charge of $10 for processing said application,
shall be refunded to the applicant, upon demand, in case of the license filed
for shall not be granted.
   4.   All application for pawnbrokers licenses, or renewals thereof, shall be
referred to the Chief of Police, or his or her authorized representative, for
his or her approval. In no case shall a license be issued or renewed by the
City Clerk-Treasurer when the application has been disapproved by the Chief of
Police, but such application or renewal shall be submitted for final action at
the next regular City Council meeting.
   5.   Before such license is issued, the applicant shall file a bond running
to the city, conditioned for the faithful performance of all provisions of the
ordinances of the city concerning pawnbrokers, which bond must remain in effect
during all of the time that the applicant is engaged in such business. This
bond shall be in the sum of not less than $1,000; to such bond shall be
attached justification to the effect that the sureties are residents within the
county and each is worth the amount specified in such bond, over and above all
just debts and liabilities, and exclusive of property exempt from execution.
   6.   The license issued herein shall state the name of the person to whom
issued, the street and number where such business is located, and other
appropriate information. Such license shall entitle the person receiving it to
do business at the place so designated in such license.
   7.   A pawnbroker’s license shall be non-transferable to any other person or
any other place of business and shall authorize the operation of such business
only at the location described in such licenses. No person shall do business or
attempt to do business under a license transferred to him or her.
   8.   No person shall conduct or transact a pawnbroking business in the city
unless he or she shall keep posted in a conspicuous place on the business
premises, a current licenses therefor relating to pawnbrokers and pawnshops.
§ 5-82 PAWN TICKET TO BE FURNISHED.
   Every pawnbroker or keeper of pawnshop shall furnish to the pledgor a
printed receipt clearly showing the amount loaned, with a specific detailed
description of the pledged property pawned or received, date of receipt
thereof, time and date of redemption, and the name of the pledgor. The
pawnbroker shall affix to each article or thing a copy of the pawn ticket given
to the pledgor, and three copies shall be turned in to the Police Department by
12:00 p.m. noon daily, covering the 24-hour period ending as of the next
previous midnight. All pawn tickets shall be inscribed with a number, or
legible characters, and all numbers shall correspond and shall be entered in
the records required herein to be kept.
§ 5-83 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Every pawnbroker shall keep records on forms supplied by the Police
Department, upon which shall be entered and legible written in ink, in English,
at the time of each loan, receipt or purchase of personal property, and
accurate account and complete description of the goods, articles or things
pawned, purchased or received, the number of the pawn ticket give to the
pledgor, the time and date redeemable, the time and date of the pawning,
receiving or purchasing such goods, articles or things, and the name,
residence, age, sex and color of the pledgor or seller as well as such other
information as might be required by the Chief of Police. No entry on said forms
shall be erased, obliterated or defaced. Said records, as well as every article
or thing pawned, pledged or deposited, or purchased, shall be open to the
inspection of any police officer or the city.
§ 5-84 DAILY REPORT TO THE POLICE.
   Every pawnbroker or pawnshop keeper in the city must before the hour of 12:
00 p.m. noon on every day except Sunday, make and deliver to the Chief of
Police, or to the front desk at the Police Department, the original and two
copies of the records, covering each article or thing pawned or received by
such pawnbroker or pawnshop keeper during the 24-hour period ending as of the
next previous midnight. The report made on each Monday shall include all
articles pawned or received from and after the report made and delivered on the
Saturday preceding. If no article or thing has been pawned or received, a
report must be made to that effect.
§ 5-85 SAFEKEEPING OF PLEDGES.
   Every pawnbroker shall provide a safe place for the keeping of the pledges
received by him or her and shall have sufficient insurance on the property help
in pledge, for the benefit of the pledgors, in case of destruction by fire or
other catastrophe.
§ 5-86 FORFEITURE OF PAWN.
   The pawnbroker shall retain, in his or her possession, every pledge or pawn
for a period of not less than 30 days after the last payment of interest. If
the pledgor fails or neglects to redeem that pawned property, or payment of
interest is not made within the 30 days, the pawnbroker may sell any such
property held for redemption.
§ 5-87 DISPOSAL OF GOODS DURING REDEMPTION PERIOD RESTRICTED.
   Prior to the expiration of the redemption period, no property received in
pledge by any pawnbroker shall be removed from his or her place of business,
except when redeemed by the owner thereof, or confiscated by any police
officer, when an item is actually stolen property and will be used as evidence.
If any police officer shall put a hold on any article, goods or things that
have been pawned or pledged, the pawnbroker or pawnshop keeper shall not
release or re-sell said article, goods or things until the Police Department
has released said items.
§ 5-88 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   The right of entry and inspection by any police officer of the city or any
other officer or designated person of any law enforcement agency approved by
the Chief of Police, of any premises operated as a pawnshop shall be a
condition upon which every license shall be issued; and the application for and
acceptance of, any license hereunder shall conclusively be deemed to be consent
of the applicant and licensee to such entry and inspection.
§ 5-89 REGISTRATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   Every person, except a licensee, whose working or employment in the
pawnbroking business commences after October 14, 1969, shall be required to be
fingerprinted and photographed by, and to furnish his or her name, address and
place of employment to, the Police Department within 48 hours following his or
her employment; the failure of such employee so to do shall be grounds for the
revocation of the licenses of the pawnbroker in whose business such employee is
working.
§ 5-90 EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No pawnbroker shall employ any clerk or person under the age of 18 years to
receive any pledge or make any loan.
§ 5-91 TRANSACTIONS WITH MINORS, DRUNKARDS, NARCOTIC ADDICTS AND FELONS.
   1.   No pawnbroker, pawnshop keeper or his or her employee shall receive any
goods, articles or things in pawn or pledge from, or purchased from, or advance
money upon anything or article of value to, or have any dealings respecting
property in the possession of, any person under the age of 18 years, without
the written consent of the parents or guardian of such person.
   2.   No pawnbroker, pawnshop keeper or his or her employee shall purchase,
take, or receive in pledge or by gift or on deposit, or accept possession of
any article of property of or from any known drunkard, from any person
appearing to be under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs, from any
person who is known as a habitual user of drugs or from any person who is known
to have been previously convicted of a felony.
§§ 5-92 THROUGH 5-99 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 5-100 SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON VACANT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, trade or
transfer any merchandise of any kind on or in any vacant property, without the
consent of the owner or person in control of said property.
§ 5-101 SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   Every shooting gallery constructed, established, set up or operated
hereafter, either permanently or temporarily, within the corporate limits of
the city shall be constructed, established, set up and operated in accordance
with the standards, specifications and requirements of 63 O.S. Chapter 30, §§
701 through 709.2, as amended, and shall comply with all the requirements
thereof. No shooting gallery shall be operated until any licenses required by
this code of ordinances have been secured therefor.
§ 5-102 SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer
for sale, any food, fuel, clothing or any other commodity which does not weigh
or measure fully as much, according to standard weights or measures of the
state, as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
§ 5-103 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
§ 5-104 JUNKYARD AND SALVAGE YARD REGULATIONS.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNKYARD or SALVAGE YARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or
for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard; these terms shall
also include garbage dumps and sanitary landfills.
   2.   No junkyard or salvage yard shall be located nearer than 50 feet from
the right-of-way.
   3.   All junkyards or salvage yards shall be screened from view of any road
or highway running adjacent thereto, by the construction of a sight-proof fence
(with a minimum height of at least eight feet), or such material as may be
approved by the City Council, or by the planting of appropriately-sized
shrubbery.
   4.   No junkyard or salvage yard shall be operated in such a manner as to
cause the creation of a public nuisance to the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the surrounding areas.
§ 5-105 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Includes any and all mechanical devices
which, upon the payment or insertion of a coin, script, token or similar
devices which, upon payment or insertion of a coin, script, token or similar
object, cause or permit, or provide incentive for, the propelling or motivating
of any ball, marble, electronic simulation or other gadget or object that
produces or creates, or makes possible the production or creation of a game of
skill, amusement, entertainment, or test of strength, including, but not
limited to, shuffleboards, coin-operated devices utilizing tables, boards or
cases of any size whatsoever, balls, sticks, cues, pegs or marbles, and any
motivating force involved is furnished by the player or the device.
      COIN-OPERATED MUSIC DEVICE. Includes any such music device which is
operated, motivated, released or played by or upon the payment or inspection of
a coin, script, token or similar object, whether there are one or more boxes or
devices on the premises for the reception of such coin, script, tokens or
similar objects; coin-operated radios or televisions receiving sets in hotels
or motels shall not be included in such definition.
      COIN-OPERATED POOL BILLIARD OR SNOOKER TABLES. Coin-operated amusement
devices, in accordance with the definition above.
      POOL BILLIARD OR SNOOKER TABLE. Any table specifically manufactured for
the purpose of playing pool, billiards or snooker, if not coin-operated.
   2.   Before any coin-operated music device, coin-operated amusement device,
pool table, billiard table or snooker table is put into operation or placed
where the same may be operated by the public, and at all times when the same is
being operated, or is available to the public for operation, a license issued
by the city shall be firmly affixed to the device covered thereby, or displayed
with other licenses or permits on a wall-board, and plainly visible to and
readable by the public.
   3.   Every person who owns and has available to the public, or who permits
to be operated by the public in or on his or her place of business, any coin-
operated music device, coin-operated amusement device, pool table, billiard
table or snooker table shall obtain and pay for an annual license for each such
device. There is hereby levied an annual licenses fee on such devices, the
amount of which shall be as set for below:
      a.   Coin-operated music device, $20;
      b.   Coin-operated amusement device, $20; and
      c.   Pool, billiard or snooker table, $20.
   4.   Application for an annual license shall be made to the city Clerk-
Treasurer. The application form shall contain the name of the applicant, a
description of the device, location of the device and such other information
deemed necessary by the City Clerk-Treasurer to identify the device. Any number
of machines may be included in one application. Upon payment of the license fee
and approval of the application, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license
for the device or devices covered by the application.
   5.   Before any coin-operated music device, is put into operation or placed
where the same may be operated by the public and at all times when the same is
being operated, or is available to the public for operation, a license, issued
by the city, shall be firmly affixed to the device covered thereby, and plainly
visible to and readable by the public.
   6.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to legalize any device that
may be prohibited by the laws of this state or the ordinances of the city. The
City Clerk-Treasurer may assume that any device described in any application,
and for which a license fee is paid, is lawful, and no claim for a refund of
any licenses fee will be entertained based upon an owner’s or operator’s
inability to operate such device because of any law of this state or city for
any other reason.
§ 5-106 USED CAR LOTS.
   1.   All lots used for a used car lot shall have a gravel/chat surface and
shall be separated from the public right-of-way or easement by a two-foot
fence, such as, pipe, metal fencing.
   2.   Vehicles not for sale or inoperative vehicles shall not be stored on
said lot.
   3.   All servicing of vehicles shall be conducted within a completely
enclosed building.
(Ord. 2019-08, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 5-107 CIRCUS AND CARNIVAL.
   1.   No person shall erect, operate or exhibit any circus or carnival within
the city in any structure composed wholly or partly of canvas, or any similar
material, unless the person has complied with all the requirements of this
article.
   2.   No person shall operate a circus within the city without first
obtaining a permit as required by this article.
      a.   Application for permit. An application for a permit to operate a
circus or carnival shall contain the following information:
         (1)   Name and business address of the owner;
         (2)   Listing and locations of all the games and rides;
         (3)   The proposed dates and times of the exhibition or performances;
and
         (4)   The proposed location of the circus.
      b.   Liability insurance. No permit to operate or exhibit any circus or
carnival within the city shall be issued until the applicant shall have filed
with the city a copy of a public liability insurance policy. The minimum limits
of coverage shall be not less than $1,000,000.
      c.   Permit. There is hereby levied a permit fee for the operation and
exhibition of a circus or a carnival within the city. The amount of the fees as
set forth shall be $250.
      d.   Non-profit organization. There shall be no requirement for the
payment of the fee set forth in subsection 2.c. above if the City Council
determines that the circus and/or carnival to be held within the city limits is
being sponsored by a non-profit organization.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 8-13-2012; Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-11-2017)
§§ 5-108 THROUGH 5-149 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 7: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
§ 5-150 DEFINITIONS.
   1.   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES. Any
medical marijuana growing or processing facility licensed by the state to grow
or process medical marijuana in excess of 12 plants. GROWING includes the
cultivation, manufacturing processing, packaging and distribution of marijuana
and marijuana products. PROCESSING includes, but not limited to, drying,
cleaning, curing, packaging and extraction of active ingredients to create
medical marijuana, medical marijuana products or concentrates.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. Any retail medical marijuana establishment
licensed by the state and the city to sell or dispense medical marijuana or
medical marijuana products.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL USE. Any individual licensed by
the state and the city to grow up to 12 plants within a single residence for
personal medical use.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITY. Any wholesale or
storage establishment licensed by the state and the city that acquires,
possesses, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, sells or
dispenses marijuana or related supplies and educational materials to the holder
of a valid medical marijuana dispensary license.
   2.   The city hereby adopts all other terms and definitions as established
by state law or Department of Health regulations. In the event of a conflict
between any definitions contained herein, the definition promulgated by the
state or the Department of Health shall prevail.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 5-151 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Applicants for any license contained herein shall be required to
possess a valid state issued medical marijuana license prior to making
application for the city license.
   2.   The license outlined in this article will be subject to property
inspection by an authorized City Inspector prior to the issuance to ensure
compliance with all codes of the city.
   3.   The property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by
both the applicant and the City Inspector.
   4.   The applicant will be required to present during the inspection.
   5.   All structures, equipment and apparatuses shall comply with all
Building and Fire Codes adopted by the state and the city.
   6.   A medical marijuana business license application shall be filled out
and signed by the property and business owner and submitted to the City Clerk
prior to scheduling an inspection.
   7.   A nonrefundable license fee, as established in this chapter, shall be
paid at the time the application is submitted.
   8.   The license fee shall be set according to and used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and
enforcement of this article.
   9.   For the distance requirements outlined in this article, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
herein is located to the nearest property line of the building or unit in which
the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located.
   10.   All medical marijuana dispensary, commercial medical marijuana growing
and/or processing facilities, and medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage
facility establishments shall be located within an entirely enclosed and secure
structure, as required by the rules and regulations of the Department of
Health, as maybe amended from time to time.
   11.   The license holder shall remit all required state and city sales
taxes.
   12.   The city-issued license must be conspicuously posted at the place of
business.
   13.   It is the intent of the city that nothing in the medical marijuana
article be construed to:
      a.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers the health,
safety, or welfare of the citizens of the city, or causes a public nuisance;
      b.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      c.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
   14.   Additional regulations.
      a.   The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
medical marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana
license shall constitute a public nuisance.
      b.   Smoking and vaping marijuana shall be prohibited on all city
property including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
      c.   Hearing for revocation or suspension of a municipal issued marijuana
license: the City Council shall revoke or suspend a license issued under this
section on any of the following grounds:
         (1)   The license was procured by fraudulent conduct or false
statement of material fact or a fact concerning the applicant was not disclosed
at the time of his or her application, and such fact would have constituted
just cause for refusal to issue the license;
         (2)   Violation of city ordinance, state law or Department of Health
regulations governing medical marijuana;
         (3)   Prior to suspension or revocation, the permittee shall be given
notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the City Council. If an employee has been designated by the City
Council, such employee shall make a report to the City Council together with a
recommendation as to whether the license should be suspended or revoked;
         (4)   Any person or entity applying for or issued a license by the
city shall comply with all state law and Department of Health rules and
regulations, as may be amended from time to time; and
         (5)   Revocation of state issued license shall result in immediate
revocation of the city issued license.
   15.   If a licensee’s license is suspended and/or revoked, the licensee
shall not be issued another license until the licensee reapplies for a new
license in accordance with subsections 1. through 9. above under this section.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 5-152 MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.
   Medical marijuana dispensaries are hereby allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the city upon compliance with
§ 5-151, issuance of a retail medical marijuana dispensary business license and
the following additional provisions.
   1.   A medical marijuana dispensary shall only be located within one of the
following zoning districts.
      a.   C-1 General Commercial, upon approval of the Board of Adjustments;
and
      b.   C-3 Planned Commercial.
   2.   Medical marijuana dispensary business licenses shall not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of
any public or private school.
   3.   Condition of operation.
      a.   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air nitration systems so that no odors are detectable
off premises.
      b.   The retail establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit
issued by the state.
      c.   No on-premises use of marijuana or its derivatives shall be allowed.
      d.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail medical marijuana business license.
   4.   There shall be a business license fee of $750 and an annual renewal fee
of $500. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and shall be
renewed prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew by July 1 will result in a
penalty fee of $250 and shall require re-inspection as required herein.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 5-153 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITY.
   Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities are hereby
allowed within the municipal boundaries of the city upon compliance with
§ 5-151, issuance of a commercial medical marijuana growing and/or facility
license and the following additional provisions.
   1.   A commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facility shall
only be located within one of the following zoning districts:
      a.   A-1 Agricultural Residential; or
      b.   I-1 Industrial.
   2.   Conditions of property.
      a.   The facility shall be secured with limited access.
      b.   The establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit issued by
the state.
      c.   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing
of the medical marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from the public
right-of-way.
      d.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with all buildings and fire codes adopted by the
state and the city.
      e.   The growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold or other related problems.
      f.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance.
      g.   A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing marijuana
produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of
life and property.
      h.   Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities
shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any public or private school.
   3.   There shall be a business license fee of $750 and an annual renewal fee
of $500. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and shall be
renewed prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew by July 1 will result in a
penalty fee of $250 and shall require re-inspection as required herein.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 5-154 MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE.
   Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facilities are hereby allowed
within the municipal boundaries of the city upon compliance with
§ 5-151, issuance of medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facility
license and the following additional requirements.
   1.   A medical marijuana wholesale or storage facility shall only be located
within one of the following zoning districts:
      a.   A-1 Agricultural Residential; or
      b.   I-1 Industrial.
   2.   Conditions of property.
      a.   The facility shall be secure with limited access.
      b.   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off-premises.
      c.   The retail establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit
issued by the state.
      d.   Medical marijuana wholesale or storage facilities shall not be
located within 1,000 feet of any public or private school.
   3.   There shall be a business license fee of $750 and an annual renewal fee
of $500. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and shall be
renewed prior to July each year. Failure to renew by July 1 will result in a
penalty fee of $250 and shall require re-inspection as required herein.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 5-155 PENALTY.
   In addition, license revocation or suspension, a violation of any of the
provisions contained in this chapter shall also be deemed an offense and
punishable, as provided in
§ 5-180 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-9-2019)
§§ 5-156 THROUGH 5-179 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 8: PENALTY
§ 5-180 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed
the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances, and is subject to revocation of any
license. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. Conviction shall also void any and all licenses and permits issued
under the provisions of this chapter, to the person, firm or corporation in
violation of said provisions.
CHAPTER 6: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Article 1: Department of Emergency Management
   
6-1   Department of Emergency Management
   
6-2   Emergency Management Director
   
6-3   Emergency Management Advisory Committee
   
6-4 through 6-9 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
6-10   Definitions
   
6-11   Liability
   
6-12   Federal, state or private aid may be accepted
   
6-13 through 6-29 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Penalty
   
6-30   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 6-1 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   See
Chapter 1,
§ 1-55 of this code of ordinances.
§ 6-2 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   See
Chapter 1,
§ 1-54 of this code of ordinances.
§ 6-3 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   See
Chapter 1,
§ 1-56 of this code of ordinances.
§§ 6-4 THROUGH 6-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 6-10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for, and carrying out of, all
emergency functions, other than functions for which primary responsibility is
assigned elsewhere by federal, state or local law or ordinance, to protect the
public peace, health and safety and to preserve lives and property in the city
during an emergency resulting from enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile
action, or from any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm or other
catastrophe in or near said community, and involving imminent or actual peril
to life and property. These functions include administration, organization,
planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare service, relief
service, police service, warden service, fire service, rescue service, medical
service, health service, transportation service, communications service, street
service, utilities service, general engineering service, plant protection
service, supply service, mutual aid, mobile support, evacuation and all other
functions necessary or incidental to the preparation for any carrying out of
the foregoing functions.
   ENEMY-CAUSED EMERGENCY. Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, anywhere within the United States and
involving imminent peril to lives and property in the city. Such emergency
shall be deemed to exist only when the Mayor shall so declare by public
proclamation and such emergency shall be deemed to exist until the aforesaid
Mayor shall declare its termination by public proclamation, or until the City
Council shall declare its termination by resolution.
   NATURAL EMERGENCY. Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm or other catastrophe in or
near the city, and involving imminent peril to lives and property. Such
emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be terminated under the same
conditions as prescribed for an enemy-caused emergency.
§ 6-11 LIABILITY.
   1.   Neither the city, nor any officer or member of the emergency management
organization provided for in this code of ordinances, shall be liable for
personal injury or property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting
as a volunteer emergency management worker or member of any agency engaged in
emergency management activity prior to, or during, either an enemy-caused or a
natural emergency.
   2.   Nor shall the city or any such officer or member be liable for the
death or injury of any persons, or damage to property, resulting from such
emergency management activity prior to, or during, either an enemy-caused or a
natural emergency.
§ 6-12 FEDERAL, STATE OR PRIVATE AID MAY BE ACCEPTED.
   Whenever the federal government, the state or any person, firm or
corporation shall offer to the city, any services, equipment, supplies,
materials or funds by way of gift, grant or loan, for purposes of emergency
management, the Mayor may accept such offer and may authorize the Emergency
Management Director to receive the same, subject to the terms of the offer and
the rules and regulations, if any, of the agency making the offer.
§§ 6-13 THROUGH 6-29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: PENALTY
§ 6-30 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 7: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Article 1: Fire Prevention
   
7-1   Volunteer Fire Department
   
7-2   Fire Prevention Code: enforcement; variances
   
7-3 through 7-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Rural Fire Protection
   
7-20   Authorization for rural fire services; right-of-way
   
7-21   Charges for fire calls
   
7-22   Recreational fire/commercial and open burning permits
   
7-23 through 7-29 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
7-30   Sale, possession or discharge of fireworks
   
7-31   Inter-governmental cooperation authorized
   
7-32 through 7-49 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Penalty
   
7-50   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: FIRE PREVENTION
§ 7-1 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   1.   There is hereby established for the city a Volunteer Fire Department
under the provisions of the State Volunteer Firefighters Act, being 11 O.S. §§
29-201 through 29-205.
   2.   The City Volunteer Fire Department shall consist of not less than 12
and not more than 20 members. The Volunteer Fire Department shall not employ
any full-time, salaried firefighters. Members of the city’s Volunteer Fire
Department may continue as members of the Volunteer Fire Department established
under this code of ordinances without probation, but shall be subject to the
by-laws authorized under this code of ordinances.
   3.   All new members of the city’s Volunteer Fire Department shall first be
approved by the City Council and shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment to the Department by the City Council and shall not become regular
members of the Department upon completion of their probation period, until each
such new member has been approved by the majority of the regular members of the
city’s Volunteer Fire Department.
   4.   The city’s Volunteer Fire Department shall adopt by-laws (a copy of
which shall be deposited with the City Clerk), which shall include the
following.
      a.   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond
to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
      b.   All volunteer firefighters are required to be present at all regular
meetings, call meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters.
      c.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
      d.   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in a period
of three months, will be dropped from the Department rolls.
      e.   Volunteer firefighters leaving city for an extended period of time
shall notify the Fire Chief in advance.
      f.   All volunteer firefighters are required to have a telephone.
      g.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes
provided for him or her will be dropped.
      h.   Any volunteer of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the rolls
by the City Council, upon the recommendation of the Fire Chief, for any of the
following offenses:
         (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         (2)   Insubordination;
         (3)   Neglect of duty;
         (4)   Violation of rules and regulations governing the Department; or
         (5)   Conviction of a felony.
      i.   All volunteer firefighters for the city must live within a three-
mile distance from the Fire Station unless, because of the specialized skills
of a particular firefighter, it is determined by the City Fire Chief and the
City Council that this requirement is to be waived as to that firefighter with
specialized skills. SPECIALIZED SKILLS mean those skills over and above the
skills a firefighter is ordinarily trained to have.
   5.   Copies of this code of ordinances and any amendments relating to the
Volunteer Fire Department of the city shall be submitted to the State Insurance
Commissioner.
§ 7-2 FIRE PREVENTION CODE: ENFORCEMENT; VARIANCES.
   1.   The Fire Prevention Code adopted by the City Council shall be enforced
by the city’s Volunteer Fire Department, under the supervision of the Fire
Chief; members of said Department may be detailed as inspectors by the Fire
Chief, if it is deemed necessary. (See also
Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances.)
   2.   The Chief of the city’s Volunteer Fire Department, with the approval of
the City Council, shall have the power to grant a variance to any of the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee (or a duly authorized agent), when there are practical
difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of said Code; provided, that,
the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial
justice done. The particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed,
and the decision of the Fire Chief thereon, shall be entered upon the records
of the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
§§ 7-3 THROUGH 7-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: RURAL FIRE PROTECTION
§ 7-20 AUTHORIZATION FOR RURAL FIRE SERVICES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   1.   The city is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of said city, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
   2.   Any contract entered into by the city with an individual owner, firm,
private corporation or private or non-profit association, for outside aid or
mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide for the payment by said owner,
firm, private corporation, private or non-profit association, or political
subdivision to the city for such fire apparatus and personnel. All monies
received from said calls shall go into the fund designated by motion of the
City Council.
   3.   The Fire Department of the city is hereby authorized and directed to
answer all outside calls within a distance of five miles from the nearest fire
station, unless, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to do so
on account of another fire in the city, broken apparatus, impassable or
dangerous highways, or other physical conditions. All other responses shall be
at the direction of the Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief or Mayor.
   4.   All firefighters of the Fire Department of the city attending or
serving at fires, or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of
said city, shall be considered as serving in their regular line of duty as
fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of the city, and said
firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any Firemen’s Pension and
Relief Fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work
was being done within the corporate limits of the city.
   5.   The Fire Department of the city answering any fire alarm or call, or
performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of said
city shall be considered as an agent of the state and acting solely and alone
in a governmental capacity, and said municipality shall not be liable in
damages for any act of commission, omission or negligence while answering or
returning from any fire or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work
under and by virtue of subsections 1., 2., 3. or 4. above.
   6.   All motorized equipment of the Fire Department of the city shall have
the right-of-way over all other commercial and pleasure vehicles.
§ 7-21 CHARGES FOR FIRE CALLS.
   1.   The city shall charge the following fees to persons or property owners
involved, for fire calls outside the corporate boundaries of the city.
      a.   Those persons or businesses contracting with the city for Fire
Department services outside the city limits shall be charged the following
fees.
         (1)   Those individuals contracting for services for single-family
dwellings and agricultural property shall pay $125 per year.
         (2)   Those businesses contracting for services for non-agricultural
commercial property shall pay $500 per year.
         (3)   Said contract shall expire on January 1 of the year following
the execution of said contract. Said contract shall not apply to unreported
controlled burns and/or unattended controlled burns. Fees for those burns shall
be in addition to the contract fee and in the amount as set forth in subsection
1.b. below.
      b.   Those persons who receive the Fire Department services, who have not
previously entered into a contract or agreement with the city, or who have been
responsible for an unreported controlled burn and/or unattended controlled
burn, shall pay a fee as follows:
         (1)   Ten dollars per mile per vehicle for each vehicle dispatched to
and from the dispatched location; and
         (2)   One hundred fifty dollars per hour or any fraction thereof per
vehicle for each vehicle dispatched from the time such vehicle leaves the fire
station and returns.
   2.   Mileage and distances shall be based on actual miles traveled. The city
shall also have the right to prepare supplemental billing costs for use of
special equipment or materials.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 8-24-2022; Ord. 23-17, passed 2-11-2025)
§§ 7-22 RECREATIONAL FIRE/COMMERCIAL AND OPEN BURNING PERMITS.
   1.   The open burning of refuse and other combustible material may be
conducted as specified in the section set forth below if no public nuisance is
or will be created and if the burning is not prohibited by, and is conducted in
compliance with, other applicable laws and the ordinances, rules, and orders of
governmental entities having jurisdiction, including air pollution control
ordinances, rules, and orders. Open burning and recreational fires shall be
prohibited during red flag warnings, burn bans, or during any time that state,
local, or federal government prohibits such activities.
   2.   The authority to conduct open burning under the provisions of this
section does not exempt or excuse a person from the consequences, damages, or
injuries which may result from such conduct nor does it excuse or exempt any
person from complying with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and orders
of the governmental entities having jurisdiction, even though the open burning
is conducted in compliance with this section.
   3.   Commercial/open burns are permissible with a permit under the following
criteria:
      a.   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of public and
industrial fire- fighting personnel when authorized by the appropriate
governmental entity.
      b.   Fires set for the elimination of a fire hazard which cannot be
abated by any other means when authorized by the appropriate governmental
entity.
      c.   Fires set for the removal of dangerous or hazardous material where
there is no other practical or lawful method of disposal upon approval of the
Director of Air Quality Division.
      d.   The burning of trees, brush, grass, leaves, and other vegetal matter
in the clearing of land, development properties, right-of-way maintenance
operations, and agricultural crop burning if the following conditions are met:
         (1)   Brush piles are not to exceed ten feet tall by ten feet in
diameter;
         (2)   Prevailing winds at the time of the burning must be away from
any city or town, the ambient air of which may be affected by air contaminants
from the burning;
         (3)   The location of the open burn must not be adjacent (500 feet
upwind) to an occupied residence other than those located on the property on
which the burning is conducted;
         (4)   Care must be used to minimize the amount of dirt on the material
being burned;
         (5)   Oils, rubber, construction materials, and other similar
materials which produce unreasonable amounts of air contaminants may not be
burned;
         (6)   The initial burning may begin only between three hours after
sunrise and three hours before sunset and additional fuel may not be
intentionally added to the fire at times outside the limits stated above; and,
         (7)   The burning must be controlled so that a traffic hazard is not
created as a result of the air contaminants being emitted.
         (8)   The permit holder is responsible for the cleaning of the burn
site and is required to return the burn site back to a natural state.
   4.   Nothing in this section is intended to prohibit the operation of
outdoor grills or fireplaces for outdoor cooking.
   5.   Recreational fires (campfires) are permissible without a permit as long
as they do not exceed 36 inches in diameter and are equipped with a solid or
mesh fire resistant cover.
   6.   The Fire Chief (or his designee) or the Building Official (or his
designee) will perform a site inspection prior to approving and issuing a
permit. A permitting and inspection fee of $50 will be collected prior to the
issuing of the permit.
   7.   The Fire Chief and/or Building Official have the authority to revoke
any burning permit at any given time without notice due to safety concerns,
weather related issues, or any other issues that they see fit.
   8.   The Fire Chief (or his designee) or the Building Official (or his
designee) of the City of Cache have the authority to enforce the provisions of
the section.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-9-2024)
§§ 7-23 THROUGH 7-29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 7-30 SALE, POSSESSION OR DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   1.    Generally. This section shall apply to fireworks as defined and the
exceptions as provided herein.
      a.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or
corporation to possess, sell, discharge, ignite or in any manner aid, assist or
abet in the discharging or igniting of any firecrackers of any size, type or
description or substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display, or
small display ground pieces, or other appliances using caps containing chlorate
or potash mixture within the corporate limits of the city, except on the Fourth
of July as hereafter provided.
      b.   Nothing in the section shall be construed to prohibit any resident
wholesaler, dealer or jobber from selling at wholesale such fireworks as are
not herein prohibited; or the use of fireworks by railroads or other
transportation agencies for signal purposes or illumination, or the sale or use
of blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes
in athletics or sports, or for use by military organizations. Such wholesalers,
dealers, jobbers or retailers shall store their supplies of fireworks in
accordance with Fire Prevention Code, latest edition, as amended.
   2.   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FIREWORK DISPLAY. Any supervised discharge of fireworks for public view
for fair associations, amusement parks and other organizations of groups of
individuals.
      FIREWORKS. Includes any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or articles prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons,
toy canes or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, sparklers or other devices of like
construction and any devices containing any explosive substance. FIREWORKS
shall not include auto flares, paper caps containing not in excess of an
average of 0.25 of a grain of explosive content per cap manufacture in
accordance with the Department of Transportation regulations for packing and
shipping as provided therein, and toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices for use of such caps and the use of which shall be permitted at all
times.
      FIREWORKS STAND. Any structure which meets the requirements of these
regulations, which is temporary in nature, and is used as a retail sales outlet
for the distribution of fireworks to the public.
      PLOT PLAN. A drawing to scale and fully dimensioned showing the proposed
location of fireworks stand or stands, centerline of streets, right-of-way
line, property boundary line or dimensioned are to be leased, areas of ingress
and egress, parking and circulation, areas nearest adjacent fire hydrant,
location of refuse containers, and the location of any adjacent structures or
property under different ownership.
   3.   Manufacture. Manufacture of fireworks is prohibited with the city.
   4.    Sales. Sales of fireworks prohibited. Exceptions: no person shall
store, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode
fireworks except as provided in this section and the city’s Fire Prevention
Code, as amended and adopted, within the city limits.
   5.   Discharge of fireworks. Discharge of fireworks is prohibited.
Exceptions:
      a.   The discharge of fireworks shall not be permitted except as provided
in subsection 1.a. above and in areas and at times as hereinafter designated by
the city;
      b.   Wholesale and retailers of fireworks may discharge fireworks for the
purpose of training their employees on the proper care, handling and discharge
of fireworks for training purposes, shall be approved the Fire Chief at least
48 hours prior to such discharge. For the purposes of this subsection 5.b.
only, a written request shall be submitted to the Fire Chief, and the request
shall include the date, time and location for such discharge;
      c.   Residents of the city desiring to discharge fireworks at their
residence within the city limits must first obtain a permit from the city to do
so. Application for such permit must be made at City Hall no sooner than June
20, at 9:00 a.m. and no later than July 3, at 4:00 p.m. each year. No written
request for a permit will be considered after July 3 at 4:00 p.m. The written
request must specify the exact location where the fireworks are to be
discharged. The discharge of fireworks by any person without first obtaining a
permit therefore is prohibited. The fireworks can only be discharged at the
times set forth in subsection 5.d. below; and
      d.   The discharge of fireworks within the cache city limits shall be
allowed only on the Fourth of July, and only at the following times:
         (1)   If the Fourth of July falls on a Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday, fireworks may be only be discharged from 8:00 a.m. until
11:00 p.m.; and
         (2)   If the Fourth of July falls on a Friday or Saturday fireworks
may only be discharged from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. midnight.
   6.   Sale fireworks at stands; permits required. No person shall sell
fireworks at retail within the city except at stands operated for such purpose
and after being issued a permit therefore as provided in this section, of the
city.
      a.   Application for permits for fireworks stands shall be submitted to
the city on or before 5:00 p.m., May 30, annually, and shall contain the
following information:
         (1)   Name of applicant;
         (2)   Business and residence address;
         (3)   Telephone number of applicant between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
5:00 p.m.;
         (4)   Address of fireworks stand;
         (5)   Date of application;
         (6)   A plot plan shall be submitted for each application which
contains all requirements indicated in in the definition in subsection 2.
above; and
         (7)   Any and all other information required in the application form.
      b.   Application filing period, site inspection process and license fee.
         (1)   Application for the operation of a fireworks stand must be
submitted no later than 5:00 p.m., May 30 to be considered.
         (2)   Following the filing of the complete application with the city,
city staff shall conduct its review of the application and inspection of the
proposed site. Staff will complete its review and either approve or disapprove
the application no later than June 6.
         (3)   If the application is approved a permit shall be issued by the
city upon payment of fees and the filing of bonds and insurance coverage under
the provisions in subsection 12. below. No fees will be accepted prior to
application approval.
            (a)   The fee of $100 for a license to operate a fireworks stand in
the city; and
            (b)   Display of permit, when issued, must be permanently displayed
at the site of display.
   7.    Determination of fireworks stand location.
      a.   No permit shall be issued for any stand that is located less than
150 feet from a structure or property under a different ownership excluding
streets, alleyways, easements or rights-of-way. The 150 feet distance shall
apply to fireworks stands which are used for other seasonal sale of goods where
such stands were erected and in place prior to May 1, 2009. Fireworks stands
may only be located in agricultural, commercial or industrial zoning district,
and must meet appropriate setback requirements from any public right-of-way,
except that stands are prohibited on areas developed or used as parking lots.
      b.    In determining whether or not a proposed site of location of
fireworks stand should be approved, the Fire Chief shall cause each application
to be fully reviewed by the following city staff:
         (1)   Code Enforcement Official, to determine if the proposed location
is properly zoned, meets appropriate setback requirements for adjacent public
rights-of-way, has proper ingress and egress and provides appropriate area for
parking and maneuvering; and
         (2)   Public Works Director, to determine accessibility from the
public street, any conflicts with adjacent intersections or turning movements
which would be hazardous to oncoming traffic.
   8.   Size and construction. Size and construction of fireworks stands shall
be at least 50 feet apart and shall not exceed a length of 36 feet nor a width
of eight feet. Stands shall be constructed of wood or metal or other material
approved by the Fire Chief. Stands must be open to the front and have an exit
door either to the rear or on the end. Each stand shall have at least one, two
and one-half gallon or greater capacity water pump tank or other firefighting
apparatus which is U.L. or F.M. approved. The firefighting apparatus shall be
determined solely by the Fire Marshal. Construction of stands from materials
such as cardboard, paper, canvas or other flammable material is prohibited.
   9.   Restrooms. Suitable restroom facilities shall be made available at each
fireworks stand location and shall be so located as to be readily accessible
but screened from public view as much as the site location will allows.
   10.   Operations of fireworks stands identifying business hours and days of
retail fireworks stands.
      a.   Retail fireworks stands shall close no later than midnight of each
day and shall not reopen until 8:00 a.m. on each day except Sunday, when they
shall not be reopened until 12:00 p.m. noon. The only period when stands are
permitted to be opened for sales is June 25 through midnight July 5, each year.
      b.   A responsible person of 18 years of age or older must be in charge
of the stand at all times it is open for business. Smoking shall be prohibited
within 50 feet of any stand, and the permit holder shall display “no smoking”
signs must be posted in prominent places on or about the stand. Metal refuse
containers of adequate size and number and with tight-fitting lids must be
provided on the premises. All trash, rubbish and debris shall be collected from
time to time so as not to become unsightly or blow upon the premises of others.
Fireworks shall not be sold to an individual under the age of 16 years. Stand
operators shall require identifications and proof of age as deemed necessary to
meet the requirements of this section.
      c.   There shall be permanently displayed on or about each stand at all
times a sign stating that the exploding or discharging of fireworks within the
city limits is prohibited except as provided in subsection 5.a. above; and that
violations thereof may be punishable as provided in this article.
   11.   Display of firework; permit required. The Fire Chief may adopt
reasonable rules and regulations for granting permits for supervised public
displays of fireworks by fair associations, amusement parks and other
organizations or groups of individuals. Such permits may be granted upon
application to the Fire Chief and filing of a bond by the applicant as provided
in subsection 12. below. Every such display shall be handled by the competent
operator approved by the Fire Chief and shall be of such composition; and
character and so located, discharged or fires as, in the opinion of the Fire
Marshal, after property inspection, shall not be hazardous to property or
endanger any person.
   12.   Bonds and responsibility for fireworks display and retail fireworks
stands.
      a.   Before a permit for fireworks display or retail fireworks stand is
issued, the applicant for such display or stands, as the case may be, shall
deposit with the city a surety bond in the amount of $3,000 for each display
site or $1,000 for each fireworks stand. The bond shall be issued by a surety
bonding company authorized to do business in the state, and shall be made
payable to the city in the event the applicant fails to comply with the
provisions of this section. In the event the permit holder of such display or
fireworks stand does not clean such display site or fireworks stand by July 15,
the city shall clean or cause to be cleaned, without notice to the permit
holder, the display site or fireworks stand, and the actual cost of such
cleaning shall be paid for from the bond so deposited with the city.
      b.   At the time of the application for a permit, or prior to the
issuance of a permit, for a fireworks display or fireworks stand, the person or
persons making such application for a permit shall provide physical evidence of
property damage and personal injury insurance coverage for each licensed
fireworks display site or each retail stand a minimum coverage of $250,000 for
property damages, personal injuries, or deaths arising from the operation of
such fireworks display of fireworks stands.
      c.   The permit holder shall assume full responsibility for any property
damages, personal injuries or deaths arising for such fireworks display or from
the operation of sale of such fireworks from the retail fireworks stands. The
coverage required under subsection 12.b. above and the requirements in
§ 7-21 shall be used to indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officials and
employees from any liability arising from the conduct, operation or sale of
such fireworks at each of the display sites or at each of the retail fireworks
stands, to include place of ingress or egress.
   13.   Seizures of fireworks. The city shall seize, take, remove or cause to
be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks offered or
exposed for sale, stored or held in violation of this article or the Fire
Prevention Code, as amended.
   14.   Notice of noncompliance.
      a.   Any seller of fireworks who violates any provision of this section
shall be given reasonable notice of such violation, and allowed eight hours
from the time and date first notified to comply with the provisions of the this
section. If after reasonable notice has been provided, compliance is still not
achieved, the permit for the operation of a fireworks stand shall be revoked by
the Fire Marshal. The revocation of any fireworks stand permit shall not bar
any other relief or penalties otherwise applicable.
      b.   Any city resident who violates the permit conditions for the
discharge of fireworks shall not be allowed to obtain a permit for the
discharge of fireworks for the next calendar year.
   15.   Application of section. This section shall not apply to any fireworks
classified as a “bottle rocket” which is prohibited under state law and in the
city, 68 O.S. §§ 1624 et seq.
   16.   Permit fee. The permit fee for the discharge of firecracker by
residents of the city shall be $15.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 7-31 INTER-GOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION AUTHORIZED.
   1.   The city in an effort to improve the quality of fire protection within
said community, and to protect the health, welfare and safety of its citizens,
does hereby determine that any or all members of the Fire Department of the
city are authorized to assist the Fire Departments of Lawton, Indiahoma,
Medicine Park or any Comanche or adjacent County Rural Fire Departments in
protecting said areas, upon receipt of a valid request for assistance. For
purposes of this section, REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE shall mean a request for help
in an emergency situation, by the Mayor, Police Chief, Fire Chief, Dispatcher
or county representative of the above entities. Upon receipt of this request
for aid, any member of the city’s Fire Department shall respond to said request
for assistance.
   2.   In an attempt to increase the effectiveness of fire protection within
the corporate limits of the city and to provide for the health, welfare and
safety of the citizens of said community, the city does hereby authorize any or
all Fire Department personnel of the Cities of Lawton, Indiahoma, Medicine Park
or of Comanche County or any adjacent county, to respond to a request for
assistance by the city and the Fire Department officers extending said aid
shall have full powers to act within the corporate limits of the city while
under a request for assistance.
§§ 7-32 THROUGH 7-49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: PENALTY
§ 7-50 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
including the provisions of any code adopted by the city shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed
the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 8: GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
Article 1: Rules of Construction
   
8-1   Rules of construction
   
8-2 through 8-9 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
8-10   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
8-11   Enumeration of provisions
   
8-12   Code does not affect prior offenses or rights
   
8-13   Ordinances effective on certain property outside of city
   
8-14   Designation and citation of code
   
8-15   Catchlines of sections
   
8-16   Separability of parts of code
   
8-17 through 8-29 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Penalty; Judicial Relief
   
8-30   General penalty for violations; judicial relief
ARTICLE 1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
§ 8-1 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code of ordinances and of all subsequent
ordinances and resolutions passed by the City Council, the following rules
shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of said City Council.
   1.   Chief of Police or Police Chief. Reference to the “Chief of Police” or
the “Police Chief” shall mean the Chief of Police or the police officer in
charge of the police force of the city.
   2.   City, town or municipality. The words the “city”, the “town” or the
“municipality” shall mean the City of Cache, in Comanche County, Oklahoma.
   3.   City Attorney, Town Attorney or Municipal Attorney. Reference to the
“City Attorney”, the “Town Attorney” or the “Municipal Attorney” shall mean the
City Attorney of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   4.   City Clerk, Town Clerk or Clerk of the municipality. Reference to the
“City Clerk”, the “Town Clerk” or the “Clerk of the Municipality” shall mean
the City Clerk of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   5.   City Clerk, Town Clerk-Treasurer or Clerk of the municipality.
Reference to the “City Clerk”, the “Town Clerk-Treasurer” or the “Clerk of the
Municipality” shall mean the City Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Cache,
Oklahoma.
   6.   City Council, Council, Town Board of Trustees or Town Board. The words
“City Council”, “Council”, “Town Board of Trustees” or “Town Board” shall mean
the governing body of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   7.   City Treasurer, Town Treasurer or Treasurer. Whenever reference is made
to the “City Treasurer”, the “Town Treasurer” or the “Treasurer”, it shall mean
the City Treasurer of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   8.   City Treasurer, Town Clerk-Treasurer or Clerk-Treasurer. Whenever
reference is made to the “City Treasurer”, the “Town Clerk-Treasurer” or the
“Clerk-Treasurer”, it shall mean the City Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Cache,
Oklahoma.
   9.   Code. Reference to “this code” or “the code” shall mean the code of
ordinances of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   10.   Computation of time. Whenever notice is required to be given (or an
act to be done) a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given (or such act is done) shall be excluded
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had, shall
be included.
   11.   County. Reference to the terms “county”, “the county” or “this county”
shall mean Comanche County, Oklahoma.
   12.   Court or Municipal Court. The words “Court” or “Municipal Court” shall
mean the Municipal Court of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   13.   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend, and
be applied to, females, firms, partnerships and corporations, as well as to
males.
   14.   Health Officer or Health Department. Wherever reference is made to the
“Health Officer” or the “Health Department”, it shall be construed as meaning
the County Sanitarian or County Health Department, unless specific reference is
made to the appointed Health Officer of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   15.   Highway. The term “highway” shall include any street, alley, highway,
avenue, public place, square, bridge, underpass or overpass in the city,
dedicated or devoted to public use.
   16.   Joint authority. Words purporting to give joint authority to three or
more officers or other persons, shall be construed as giving such authority to
a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
   17.   Judge. The word “Judge” shall mean the Judge of the Municipal Court of
the City of Cache, Oklahoma, including the Acting Judge and/or Alternate Judge
thereof, as provided by Oklahoma Statutes and this code of ordinances.
   18.   Judicial district. The term “judicial district” shall mean the
District Court Judicial District of the State of Oklahoma, wherein the situs of
government of the City of Cache, Oklahoma, is situated.
   19.   May. The word “may” is permissive; the word “shall” is mandatory.
   20.   Mayor. Whenever reference is made to the “Mayor”, it shall mean the
Chief Executive Officer of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   21.   Month. The word “month” shall mean a calendar month.
   22.   Number. Any word importing the singular number shall include the
plural and any word importing the plural number shall include the singular,
except where a contrary intention plainly appears.
   23.   Oath. The word “oath” shall be construed to include an affirmation in
all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath; in
such cases, the words “swear” and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words
“affirm” and “affirmed”.
   24.   Officers, departments and the like. Whenever any officer, department,
board, commission or other agency is referred to by title alone, such reference
shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the City of Cache,
Oklahoma”.
   25.   Or, and. “Or” may be read “and”, and “and” may be read “or”, if the
sense requires it.
   26.   Owner. The word “owner”, applied to a building or land, shall include
any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint
tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or
land.
   27.   Person. The word “person” shall extend, and be applied to,
associations, corporations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and
corporate, as well as to individuals. Whenever used with respect to any
penalty, the word “person”, applied to partnerships or associations, shall mean
the partners and members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
thereof.
   28.   Police officer. Reference to a “police officer” shall mean the Chief
of Police or any police officer of the City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   29.   Preceding or following. The words “preceding” or “following” shall
mean next before and next after, respectively.
   30.   Roadway. The word “roadway” shall mean that portion of a street
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
   31.   Sidewalk. The word “sidewalk” shall mean any portion of the street
right-of-way between the curb (or lateral line of the roadway) and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   32.   Signature or subscription. The words “signature” or “subscription”
shall include a mark when a person cannot write.
   33.   State. The words “state”, “the state” or “this state” shall mean the
State of Oklahoma.
   34.   Statutory reference. Reference to the Statutes of the State of
Oklahoma means the statutes as they now are or as they may be amended to be; a
reference to the 1981 Statutes also means the comparable provision when
included in future codifications or supplementations of said statutes.
   35.   Street. The term “street” shall include any highway, alley, street,
avenue, public place, underpass or overpass in the city, dedicated or devoted
to public use.
   36.   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense shall include the
future, as well as the past and present.
   37.   Written or in writing. The terms “written” or “in writing” shall be
construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.
   38.   Year. Unless otherwise designated, the word “year” shall mean a
calendar year.
§§ 8-2 THROUGH 8-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 8-10 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code of ordinances or the ordinance adopting this code shall
be construed to repeal, or otherwise affect the validity of, any of the
following, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in fall
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein:
   1.   Ordinances promising, obligating or guaranteeing the payment of money
for or to the city authorizing the issuance of any municipal bonds or any
evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
   2.   Appropriation ordinances, or ordinances providing for:
      a.   The levy of taxes;
      b.   An annual budget;
      c.   A special election; or
      d.   Prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees.
   3.   Ordinances which provide for the annexation or de-annexation of
territory to or from the city;
   4.   Ordinances approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to, any
contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument, or granting any
franchise;
   5.   Ordinances authorizing or relating to specific public improvements;
   6.   Ordinances vacating, opening or dedicating specific streets and alleys;
   7.   Ordinances relating to specific street improvements and assessments;
   8.   Ordinances relating to the grade or alignment of specific streets;
   9.   Ordinances naming or re-naming specific streets;
   10.   Ordinances granting railroads or other the right to use specific
streets, alleys or rights-of-way;
   11.   Ordinances changing the zoning district classification of a specific
parcel of real property; or
   12.   Other temporary or special ordinances.
§ 8-11 ENUMERATION OF PROVISIONS.
   1.   Provisions of state law which affect the city because of its general
relationship to the state, may not be enumerated herein, but may be adopted by
reference as inseparable parts of this code of ordinances.
   2.   Provisions of state law which prescribe specific actions or laws for
the city and its citizens, may be included in this code of ordinances for
purposes of clarity.
   3.   Provisions of state law in matters of wider public concern which are
not enumerated herein, but which affect the city and its citizens in a general
way, may not be enumerated herein, but may nevertheless be made a part of this
code of ordinances through adoption by reference.
   4.   All provisions which are of purely local concern may be specifically
enumerated in this code of ordinances. The regulations, rules, prohibitions,
nuisances, offenses and other provisions which are of purely local concern, as
provided by state law, and are specifically enumerated herein in detail, shall
be enforced by the city; duly authorized officers and agents of said city shall
have all power, duties and responsibilities necessary to enforce the same.
§ 8-12 CODE DOES NOT AFFECT PRIOR OFFENSES OR RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this code of ordinances or the ordinance adopting this code shall
affect any offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the
effective date of this code.
§ 8-13 ORDINANCES EFFECTIVE ON CERTAIN PROPERTY OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   1.   All provisions of this code of ordinances and other ordinances of the
city now in effect or adopted in the future, are hereby extended to all real
property belonging to, or under the control of, the city, outside the corporate
limits of said city, and shall be in full force and effect thereon insofar as
they are applicable.
   2.   Any words in any such provision indicating that its effect is limited
to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also
such outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, said city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   3.   The operation of motor vehicles and other traffic upon roads, streets
and highways that form the corporate boundary line of the city shall be subject
to all municipal traffic ordinances and other ordinances of the city.
§ 8-14 DESIGNATION AND CITATION OF CODE.
   The ordinances embraced in this and all other chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated as the “Code of Ordinances City of Cache,
Oklahoma”, and may be cited. Such code may also be cited as the “Cache,
Oklahoma City Code” or the “Cache, Oklahoma Municipal Code”.
§ 8-15 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code of ordinances are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be
deemed, or taken to be, titles of such sections, nor as any part of the
sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any
of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
§ 8-16 SEPARABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   1.   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code of ordinances
are separable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of said
code shall be declared invalid by the judgment or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of said code, since the
same would have been enacted by the City Council without the incorporation in
this code of any such valid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
   2.   Further, if any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of
this code of ordinances shall seem invalid through printing or typographical
error, such error or misprint shall not serve to misconstrue or invalidate the
intent thereof, nor affect in any way the intent or validity of any or all
other words, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this code.
§§ 8-17 THROUGH 8-29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: PENALTY; JUDICIAL RELIEF
§ 8-30 GENERAL PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS; JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   1.   Whenever, in this code of ordinances or any ordinance of the city, an
act is prohibited, is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or
misdemeanor, or wherever in said code of ordinances, the doing of any act is
required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code of ordinances or of any such ordinance shall be punishable by a fine
in any amount not exceeding the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day on which any violation of this
code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such.
   2.   No penalty imposed by, and pursuant to, this code of ordinances, shall
interfere with the right of the city also to apply to the proper courts of the
state for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against such
person, firm or corporation.
CHAPTER 9: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Article 1: Contagious Diseases
   
9-1   Introducing diseases
   
9-2   Report of contagious diseases
   
9-3   Quarantine
   
9-4 through 9-9 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Sanitary Facilities
   
9-10   Definitions
   
9-11   Owner to provide proper toilet facilities
   
9-12   Proper disposal of human excrement required
   
9-13   Unauthorized facilities declared public nuisances
   
9-14 through 9-29 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
9-30   Abandoned ice boxes, refrigerators and containers
   
9-31   Charges for medically equipped vehicle(s)
   
9-32 through 9-49 Reserved for fixture use
Article 4: Penalty
   
9-50   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 9-1 INTRODUCING DISEASES.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person affected with, or exposed to, any
contagious or infectious disease, to be upon any street or in any public place
in the city; the purpose of this requirement is to avoid exposing other persons
to such a disease.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or person having charge
of any child or children to allow, or permit, such child or children to attend
any classes, school or any gathering of people, or to appear upon any street or
in any public place in the city while infected with, or exposed to, any
contagious or infectious disease, or in any manner to allow other persons to be
exposed to such a disease.
   3.   No person suffering from, or infected with, the communicable form of a
venereal disease, shall engage in any occupation involving intimate contact
with persons, food or food products.
§ 9-2 REPORT OF CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   1.   Every physician practicing in the city shall report to the County
Health Official, within six hours after the diagnosis of the same, the
appearance of any of the following diseases: diphtheria (including membranous
croup); scarlet fever; smallpox; yellow fever; typhoid fever; typhus fever;
Asiatic cholera; chicken pox; tuberculosis; undulant fever; acute anterior;
poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis); epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis;
whooping cough; mumps; or any other pestilential, infectious or contagious
disease.
   2.   Syphilis, gonococcus infection and chancroid are hereby and hereinafter
recognized and declared to be contagious, infectious, communicable and
dangerous to the public health. The term VENEREAL DISEASE, as used in this
chapter, shall include all such diseases.
   3.   The statutes of the state governing the diseases stated hereinbefore
shall apply to all cases of this nature, after said report is made.
§ 9-3 QUARANTINE.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, or go upon, any ground or
premises under quarantine, without first having obtained permission to do so
from the Local or County Health Official.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person whom the Local or County Health
Official shall have ordered to be detained in quarantine, to neglect or refuse
to be so detained, or to willfully violate any quarantine regulation thereof.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear down, remove, deface,
mutilate or destroy any order, notice or flag that may be posted or displayed
by the Local or County Health Official.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully violate, or refuse to
comply with, any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of
any officer or official charged with enforcement of such order, direction,
prohibition, rule or regulation.
§§ 9-4 THROUGH 9-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: SANITARY FACILITIES
§ 9-10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
§ 9-11 OWNER TO PROVIDE PROPER TOILET FACILITIES.
   1.   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate, shall install, equip and maintain adequate sanitary
facilities for the disposal of human excrement; this requirement shall include
a sanitary water closet or closets, or a water closet or closets connected to
an approved septic tank.
   2.   a.   The closets and toilets required herein shall be of the sanitary
water closet type when located within 300 feet of any municipal sanitary sewer
system line and accessible thereto.
      b.   It shall be the duty of every owner of property so located, to
connect, or cause to be connected, his or her toilet(s) with the municipal
sanitary sewer system, and to make every proper connection so that each toilet
is properly connected with said municipal sewer system.
   3.   When not so located, the closet or toilet shall be of:
      a.   The sanitary water closet type, so connected to a sanitary sewer
(notwithstanding the distance from it); or
      b.   The water closet type, connected to a septic tank approved by the
County Health Officer.
§ 9-12 PROPER DISPOSAL OF HUMAN EXCREMENT REQUIRED.
   1.   All human excrement shall be disposed of by disposition in closets of
the type hereinbefore described.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of property to permit the disposal
of human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to dispose of
human excrement in any other manner.
§ 9-13 UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner different
from that required by this code of ordinances, and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public health, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and may be dealt with, and abated, as
such. (See
Chapter 12 of this code of ordinances.)
§§ 9-14 THROUGH 9-29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 9-30 ABANDONED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS AND CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave, in a
place accessible to children, any abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator
or other container which has an air-tight door with a lock or other fastening
device which cannot be easily released for opening from the inside of the ice
box, refrigerator or container, without first removing the door, lock or
fastener.
§ 9-31 CHARGES FOR MEDICALLY EQUIPPED VEHICLE(S).
   When medically equipped vehicle(s) is dispatched at the request of any
person(s) to a location outside of the city limits the person(s) receiving the
benefits and/or requesting the dispatch of said vehicle(s) shall be charge the
following fees:
   1.   Five dollars per mile for each vehicle dispatched; and
   2.   One hundred twenty-five dollars per hour or any fraction thereof for
each vehicle dispatched from the time the vehicle leaves the fire station until
it returns.
§§ 9-32 THROUGH 9-49 RESERVED FOR FIXTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: PENALTY
§ 9-50 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of any ordinance,
code or standard adopted by reference by this chapter, or maintains or permits
to continue, any public nuisance as defined by this chapter, shall be guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to
exceed the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Every day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 10: MANUFACTURED, MOBILE AND MODULAR HOUSING
Section
Article 1: General Provisions
   
10-1   Purpose
   
10-2   Definitions
   
10-3   Freestanding mobile homes
   
10-4   Nonresidential mobile homes or trailers
   
10-5   Minimum housing regulations for mobile and manufactured homes
   
10-6 through 10-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Mobile Home, Manufactured Housing and Trailer Parks
   
10-20   Permits; requirements; procedures; fees
   
10-21   Inspection of parks
   
10-22   Notices, hearings and orders
   
10-23   Supervision; posting of temporary permit
   
10-24   Location and design considerations for parks
   
10-25   Service buildings for travel trailer parks
   
10-26   Sewage disposal for mobile and manufactured home parks
   
10-27   Water supply for parks
   
10-28   Refuse disposal for parks; insect and rodent control
   
10-29   Electricity; exterior lighting; fuels; power sources
   
10-30   Fire protection
   
10-31   Alterations and additions
   
10-32   Registration of owners and occupants
   
10-33   Damaged or dilapidated units
   
10-34   Tie-downs
   
10-35 through 10-49 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Subdivisions
   
10-50   Subdivisions
   
10-51 through 10-69 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Modular Housing
   
10-70   Treatment of Modular Housing
   
10-71 through 10-79 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
10-80 through 10-99 Reserved for future use
Article 6: Penalty
   
10-100   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10-1 PURPOSE.
   1.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations for areas within
the corporate boundaries of the city wherein the location and development of
manufactured housing, mobile homes, mobile home parks, trailer parks,
manufactured and mobile home subdivisions and modular housing units or
additions may be safely continued and encouraged.
   2.   The regulations set forth in this chapter are designed to promote
stable neighborhoods, prevent health and safety hazards and encourage the
economical and orderly development and operation of manufactured housing and
mobile home parks and subdivisions, trailer parks and modular housing units and
additions.
§ 10-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUFFER PLANTING STRIP. A visual screening facility, consisting of not less
than one row of shrubbery spaced not more than eight feet apart, which will
grow to a height of not less than 12 feet in less than five years, under normal
circumstances; such a strip may, as an alternative, consist of an earthen berm
or solid fencing, or any combination of earthen berm, fencing and/or
landscaping, all of which shall total at least eight feet in height.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A canvas, folding structure mounted on wheels and designed
for travel, recreation and vacation use.
   GREEN BELT PLANTING STRIP. A landscaped area, not less than 20 feet in
width, used along all subdivision boundaries; such GREEN BELT PLANTING STRIP
shall be composed of:
      a.   One row of deciduous and/or evergreen trees, spaced not more than 40
feet apart;
      b.   Not less than three rows of shrubs, spaced not more than 30 feet
apart; and
      c.   Not less than three rows of shrubs, spaced not more than eight feet
apart, all of which shrubs must eventually be capable of growing to at least
four to six feet in height.
   HEALTH OFFICIAL. The Municipal Building Inspector or the legally-designated
Health Authority of the city (or an authorized representative), or the
authorized representative of the County Health Department or the State
Department of Health.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976,
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with
the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 70, §§ 5401 et seq. The three types of MANUFACTURED
HOUSING are defined as meeting all of the requirements listed below, and are to
be considered separate from mobile or modular housing:
      a.   TYPE I MANUFACTURED HOUSING shall:
         (1)   Have more than 1,000 square feet of occupied space in a
typically double-section or larger multi-section unit, with a minimum width of
20 feet;
         (2)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with the city’s foundation code or other adopted
foundation requirements, and the manufacturer’s specifications;
         (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
municipally-approved installation standards;
         (4)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
         (5)   Have all utilities connected, in accordance with the appropriate
municipal codes and the manufacturer’s specifications;
         (6)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         (7)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         (8)   Have a 100-square foot (minimum) attached, covered and/or
enclosed parking garage, which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area; all parking and driveway areas shall be hard-surfaced;
         (9)   Have a legitimate front and rear door; and
         (10)   Have a minimum eave width of six inches.
      b.   TYPE II MANUFACTURED HOUSING shall:
         (1)   Have more than 720 square feet of occupied space in a single-,
double-, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
         (2)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with the city’s foundation code or other adopted
foundation standards, and the manufacturer’s specifications;
         (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
municipally-approved installation standards;
         (4)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
         (5)   Have utilities connected in accordance with appropriate
municipal codes and the manufacturer’s specifications;
         (6)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         (7)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         (8)   Have a 100-square foot (minimum) attached, covered and/or
enclosed parking garage, which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area; all parking and driveway areas shall be hard-surfaced;
         (9)   Have legitimate front and rear doors; and
         (10)   Have a minimum eave width of six inches.
      c.   TYPE III MANUFACTURED HOUSING shall:
         (1)   Have more than 400 square feet of occupied space, in a single-,
double-, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
         (2)   Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with municipally-
approved installation standards;
         (3)   Be enclosed with foundation siding or skirting, in accordance
with municipally-approved installation standards;
         (4)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the manufacturer’s
specifications and the city’s appropriate, adopted code; and
         (5)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with appropriate
municipal requirements and the manufacturer’s specifications.
   MOBILE HOME. Any single-family dwelling designed for transportation on
streets and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers (both
highway and rail) and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a
dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations,
connection to utilities and similar operations.
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. Any MOBILE HOME which does not have a flush toilet
and a bath or shower. For purposes of this chapter, a DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME
shall be considered to be the same as a TRAVEL TRAILER, unless otherwise
specified.
   MOBILE HOME, FREESTANDING. Any MOBILE HOME or TRAVEL TRAILER not located in
a MOBILE HOME PARK or TRAVEL TRAILER PARK respectively, licensed by the city or
in an approved MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more MOBILE HOMES,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. Any plot of ground within a MOBILE HOME PARK or
subdivision designed for the accommodation of one MOBILE HOME, and not located
on a mobile home sales lot.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision designed and intended for
residential use, where residence is in mobile homes or manufactured housing
exclusively, and lots are sold for occupancy.
   MODULAR HOME. Any factory-fabricated, transportable building unit, not built
upon a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated
with similar units on a permanent foundation; the term is intended to apply to
major assemblies and does not include prefabricated sub-elements incorporated
into a structure at the site, nor does it include any type of MANUFACTURED
HOUSING, as defined herein; any MODULAR HOME must meet United States government
MODULAR HOME certification standards. See
Article 4  of this
Chapter 10 .
   MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel, recreation
and vacation constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
   MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Municipal Building Inspector of the City
of Cache, Oklahoma, or an authorized agent.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a MOBILE HOME or TRAVEL TRAILER, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
   PARK. A MOBILE HOME and/or TRAVEL TRAILER PARK.
   PUBLIC WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM. Any such system built and owned by, or
dedicated to and accepted by, or operated in cooperation with the city; all
other such systems shall be deemed private systems.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle used primarily for recreational purposes,
including, but not limited to: motor homes; campers; travel trailers; fifth-
wheel trailers any other similar vehicles.
   SERVICE BUILDING. Any building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and/or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities.
   SUBDIVISION. A manufactured housing or mobile home subdivision, unless
otherwise indicated.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation use. For purposes of this chapter, a DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME shall be
considered to be the same as a TRAVEL TRAILER, unless otherwise specified.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more travel
trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 10-3 FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES.
   1.   Freestanding mobile homes, travel trailers, utility trailers,
watercraft trailers, horse trailers or flatbed trailers shall be permitted
within the corporate limits of the city, subject to the following conditions.
      a.   No freestanding mobile homes, travel trailers, utility trailers,
watercraft trailers, horse trailers or flatbed trailers shall be parked on
dirt, grass, or other lawn areas at any time, with exception of the backyard
and side of residence and shall not extend past the front of residence.
      b.   No freestanding mobile homes, travel trailers, utility trailers,
watercraft trailers, horse trailers or flatbed trailers shall be parked in any
right-of-way, public street, utility, or city easement.
      c.   Freestanding mobile homes, travel trailers, utility trailers,
watercraft trailers, horse trailers or flatbed trailers may be parked on a
driveway that is constructed of concrete, or a driveway extension made of a
load-bearing, non-dust producing surface such as chat or gravel that has to be
maintained in a sound condition free of ruts and potholes and is kept clear of
grass and weeds; provided, the foregoing shall not be parked on a driveway
closer than five feet from a public street.
      d.   It shall be unlawful far any person or any owner to leave, park;
stand, or store any mobile homes, travel trailers, utility trailers, watercraft
trailers, horse trailers or flatbed trailers in the driveway or side yard of a
residence, in such a manner as to block the flow of traffic or the obstruct
vision of oncoming traffic.
      e.   No freestanding mobile homes or travel trailers shall be occupied
either temporarily or permanently while parked or stored in any area within the
city limits except in a mobile home park.
   2.   Except for mobile homes, travel trailers, utility trailers or flatbed
trailers within regular commercial mobile home, travel, utility, watercraft,
horse or flatbed trailer, sales lots, each such freestanding mobile home or
travel trailer offered for sale, must be clearly marked as such and shall not
be occupied for either living or sleeping purposes.
   3.   A property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored, more than
one mobile home, travel trailer, utility trailer, watercraft trailer, horse
trailer or flatbed trailer on a residential lot.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 1-13-2015; Ord. 15-2, passed 2-10-2015; Ord. 2019-09, passed
11-18-2019; Ord. 2020-, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 2024-16, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 10-4 NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOMES OR TRAILERS.
   1.   Nonresidential mobile homes or trailers shall not be permitted in the
city unless a temporary permit for operation, valid for a period of 12 months,
is issued by the Municipal Building Inspector; such permit shall specify the
permitted use of the nonresidential mobile home or trailer, the location of
such operation and the termination date of the permit, and shall only be issued
under terms of this code of ordinances and the adopted zoning ordinance of the
city.
   2.   No permit shall be issued for a use which would violate any local,
state or federal ordinance, law or regulation.
   3.   An annual fee of $20 shall be charged for each nonresidential mobile
home or trailer permit.
   4.   Operation of nonresidential mobile homes or trailers by contractors or
construction projects for which building permits have been issued or which are
otherwise approved by governmental units is permitted during the term of such
construction project.
   5.   This section shall not be construed as permitting or authorizing the
permanent location of any nonresidential mobile home or trailer within the
corporate limits of the city in conflict with any adopted zoning ordinance of
said city.
§ 10-5 MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   1.   Every manufactured house or mobile home located in either a mobile home
park, a mobile home subdivision or as a freestanding home, shall meet the
provisions of the adopted Housing Code of the city, except as otherwise
provided in this section, or as may be otherwise provided in other provisions
of this code of ordinances.
   2.   Every manufactured or mobile home shall contain the following minimum
gross floor area of habitable space:
      a.   One hundred and fifty square feet of one or two occupants;
      b.   One hundred additional square feet for the third occupant; and
      c.   Seventy-five square feet additional for each additional occupant
thereafter.
   3.   Habitable space in a mobile or manufactured home shall have a minimum
ceiling height of seven feet over 50% of the floor area; the floor area where
the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be considered in computing
minimum gross floor area.
   4.   A mobile or manufactured home shall have a safe and unobstructed
primary exit and an emergency exit located away from the primary exit.
   5.   Rooms occupied for sleeping purposes must contain at least 60 square
feet of floor space, if used by more than one person, and at least 40 square
feet if used by one person.
   6.   Dependent manufactured or mobile homes shall not be required to have a
flush toilet, bath or shower.
   7.   The Housing Code shall not apply to travel trailers insofar as floor
area, flush toilet, bath or shower ceiling height is concerned.
§§ 10-6 THROUGH 10-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: MOBILE HOME, MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND TRAILER PARKS
§ 10-20 PERMITS; REQUIREMENTS; PROCEDURES; FEES.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate
any mobile home, manufactured housing or travel trailer park within the
corporate limits of the city, unless he or she holds a valid permit issued
annually by the Municipal Building Inspector and the Health Official of the
city in the name of such person for the specific park, except that the
maintenance or operation of an existing park on the effective date of this
chapter may be continued under a temporary permit for such period of time and
under such conditions as are hereinafter described.
   2.   Application shall be made to the Municipal Building Inspector acting
jointly with the Health Official, in writing, within 24 hours after having
sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of, interest in or control
of, any such park. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person
succeeding to the ownership or control of such park.
   3.   Application for original permits shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and shall contain the following:
      a.   Name and address of the applicant;
      b.   The interest of the applicant in, and the location and legal
description of, the park;
      c.   A complete site plan of the park, showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder;
and
      d.   Such further information as may be requested by the Health Official
and/or Municipal Building Inspector.
   4. Applications for renewals of permits shall be made, in writing, by the
holder of the license and shall contain the following:
      a.   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued, or the latest renewal granted; and
      b.   Other information requested by the Health Official and/or Municipal
Building Inspector.
   5.   A complete site plan, for the purpose of obtaining a permit, shall
show:
      a.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      b.   The number, locations and size of all mobile home, manufactured home
or travel trailer spaces;
      c.   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips and
recreational areas;
      d.   The location of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      e.   The location and size of utility lines and treatment facilities; and
      f.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed, or to be constructed, within the park.
   6.   Whenever the Health Official and/or Municipal Building Inspector finds
conditions existing in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, notice shall be given, in writing, to the person to whom the
permit was issued, that, unless such conditions or practices be corrected
within a reasonable period of time (specified in the notice), the permit will
be suspended. At the end of such period, not to exceed 90 days, the Health
Official and/or Municipal Building Inspector shall re-inspect such park, and,
if such conditions or practices have not been corrected, the permit shall be
suspended and notice given, in writing, of such suspension to the person to
whom the permit was issued and/or the person managing, or in charge of, the
park. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease operation
of such park, except as may be provided hereinafter.
   7.   Any person whose permit has been denied or suspended, or who has
received notice from the Health Official and/or Municipal Building Inspector
that a permit will be suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the
park are corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the City Council or the Zoning Board of Adjustment (if the city has
adopted a zoning ordinance); provided, that, when no petition for such hearing
shall have been filed within ten days following the day on which notice of
suspension was served, such permit shall be deemed to have been automatically
revoked at the expiration of such ten-day period.
   8.   Mobile home and travel trailer parks in existence upon the effective
date of this chapter, which have concrete pads indicating the location of
mobile home, manufactured home or travel trailer spaces, need not comply with
those sections of this chapter which would require the moving of concrete pads.
They must, however, comply with all other requirements and any park expansion
shall be in full compliance with provisions of this chapter.
   9.   The City Clerk shall charge and collect for each mobile home,
manufactured home and/or travel trailer park a permit or temporary permit fee
of $2.50 per space. The initial permit or temporary permit shall expire no
later than one year from the date of issue, unless renewed upon such conditions
as the City Council may, by ordinance, direct.
§ 10-21 INSPECTION OF PARKS.
   1.   The Health Official and the Municipal Building Inspector are hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of
mobile home, manufactured home and travel trailer parks within the city, in
order to perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants
of such parks and of the general public.
   2.   The Health Official and Municipal Building Inspector shall have the
power to inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the
purposes of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement
of this chapter or of regulations promulgated thereunder.
   3.   The Health Official and Municipal Building Inspector shall have the
power to inspect the register containing a record of all homes and occupants
using the park.
   4.   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such mobile
home, manufactured home or travel trailer park, or their premises, at
reasonable times for the purpose of making, ordering or inspecting such repairs
or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this chapter, or with
any lawful regulations adopted thereunder, or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
§ 10-22 NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   1.   Whenever the Health Official or Municipal Building Inspector determines
violations of pertinent regulations are found to exist, the licensee, permittee
or the person(s) managing, or in charge of, the park shall be notified of such
alleged violations. Such notice shall:
      a.   Be in writing;
      b.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      c.   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      d.   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, for the performance
of any act it requires; and
      e.   Be served upon the owner, an agent, operator or the person in charge
of the park, as the case may require; provided, that, such notice or order
shall be deemed as properly served upon said owner or agent when a copy thereof
has been sent by certified mail to the last known address.
   2.   Any person affected by any notice issued under this chapter or
resulting regulations, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the City Council, acting as a Board of Appeals, or the Zoning Board of
Adjustment (if the city has adopted a zoning ordinance); provided, that, such
person shall file with the Municipal Building Inspector a written request for
such hearing, setting forth briefly the grounds for such request, within ten
days after the day notice was served. The filing of such request shall stay the
notice of suspension of permits, except in cases of orders issued under
subsection 5. below. The hearing shall be held at the next meeting for which
the agenda has not been completed, or at a later meeting if so requested by the
petitioner, should the Municipal Building Inspector determine that sufficient
cause for such delay exists.
   3.   After such hearing, the Health Official or Municipal Building Inspector
shall compile the findings of the City Council or the Zoning Board of
Adjustment (if the city has adopted a zoning ordinance) as to compliance with
this chapter and pursuant regulations, and shall issue an order, in writing,
sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the prior notice which shall be served as
provided in subsection 4. below. Upon failure to comply with such order, the
permit of the park shall be revoked.
   4.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council or the Zoning
Board of Adjustment (if the city has adopted a zoning ordinance) may seek
relief in District Court.
   5.   Whenever the Health Official or Municipal Building Inspector finds that
an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect health, without
notice or hearing, an order may be issued reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring that such action be taken as may be deemed necessary to
meet the emergency, including the suspension of the permit. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately.
Any person to whom such an order is directed, shall comply therewith
immediately, but upon petition to the City Council or the Zoning Board of
Adjustment (if the city has adopted a zoning ordinance), shall be afforded at
the next regular meeting, even if the agenda has been completed. The provisions
of subsections 3. and 4. above shall be applicable to such hearing and the
order issued thereafter.
§ 10-23 SUPERVISION; POSTING OF TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   1.   The licensee or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker, shall be
charged at all times with keeping the park, its facilities and equipment in a
clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be
answerable, with the licensee, for the violation of any provision of this
chapter to which the license is subject.
   2.   The license shall be conspicuously posted in the offices of, or on the
premises of, the park at all times.
§ 10-24 LOCATION AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS FOR PARKS.
   1.   a.   Parks shall be of three types:
         (1)   Mobile and manufactured home parks;
         (2)   Travel trailer parks; and
         (3)   Mixed mobile/manufactured home and travel trailer parks.
      b.   No travel trailer shall be located in a mobile or manufactured home
park. No mobile or manufactured home shall be located in a travel trailer park.
In a mixed park, separate areas shall be reserved for each type of home and for
travel trailers; no mobile or manufactured home shall be permitted in the
travel trailer sector; no travel trailer shall be permitted in the mobile or
manufactured home sectors.
   2.   All parks shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded to
ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water; drainage shall
not endanger any water supply.
   3.   The minimum area of any park shall be five acres. Parks in existence on
the effective date of this chapter can continue to operate with less than five
acres area; however, if the park is to be expanded, it must at that time expand
to include at least five acres.
   4.   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten homes per
gross acre for a mobile or manufactured home park, and no more than 15 travel
trailers per gross acre, for a travel trailer park. (Area used for sewerage
treatment facilities shall not be included in density computations.) Mobile and
manufactured home spaces shall be at least 30 feet wide where pads are closest
to driveways. Travel trailer spaces shall be at least 25 feet wide where travel
trailers are located closest to the driveway.
   5.   Every space shall be clearly defined. All homes and travel trailers
shall be parked in such spaces, so that, at the nearest point, they shall be
ten feet from the service road, five feet from the rear lot and at least ten
feet from the boundary line of any other individual spaces, as well as any
other home or travel trailer.
   6.   It shall be unlawful to locate any home or travel trailer less than 25
feet from any public street or highway right-of-way, or so that any part of
such home or travel trailer will obstruct any roadway or walkway of such park.
   7.   It shall be unlawful to permit a mobile or manufactured home to occupy
a travel trailer space, a travel trailer to occupy a mobile or manufactured
home space and for any mobile or manufactured home or travel trailer to be
located in a park unless in a space designated specifically for that type of
home or trailer.
   8.   All mobile and manufactured home spaces shall abut upon a sealed-
surface driveway of not less than 20 feet in width, if on-street parking is
prohibited, and 26 feet in width, if on-street parking is permitted on one side
of the street only. Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public street
or highway.
   9.   In all parks existing on the effective date of this chapter, parking on
or adjacent to the street within the park is permissible as long as it does not
obstruct free movement of traffic. Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a
question to be determined by the Planning Commission, with final appeal to the
City Council. If, upon final appeal before said City Council, it is determined
that a safety hazard does in fact exist, the park concerned will be required to
comply with the following provisions:
      a.   In new mobile or manufactured home parks, at least two clearly-
defined parking spaces will be provided for each space either on or adjacent to
the space; and
      b.   In new travel trailer parks, at least one clearly-defined parking
space shall be provided for each space either on, or adjacent to, the space.
   10.   All roadways within a park shall meet road improvement standards
consistent with the city’s standards, or state law for private roads, as
contained in the city’s adopted subdivision regulations ordinance.
   11.   In developed areas of the city, new parks must abut, and have their
major means of ingress and egress on, a thoroughfare of appropriate
classification.
   12.   All parks shall have and maintain a buffer planting strip along all
park boundaries not bordering a street.
§ 10-25 SERVICE BUILDINGS FOR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   1.   Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at least one service
building separately equipped with flush-type toilet fixtures and other sanitary
facilities.
   2.   Service buildings shall:
      a.   Be located 25 feet or more from any travel trailer space;
      b.   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
      c.   Be of moisture-resistant material, to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      d.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of 70°F
during cold weather, and to supply adequate hot water during time of peak
demands; and
      e.   Have all rooms well-ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened.
   3.   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean condition and kept free of any condition that will menace the health
of any occupant or the public, or constitute a menace.
§ 10-26 SEWAGE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   1.   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop
sinks, laundries and other buildings within the park, shall be discharged into
a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system or private sewer and
lagoon system, of such construction and in such manner as approved by the State
Department of Health and in accordance with all applicable ordinance, codes and
regulations of the city.
   2.   Each home space shall be provided with at least a three-inch sewer
connection at least four inches above the surface of the ground. The sewer
connection should be protected by a concrete collar at least four inches thick
and have a minimum outside diameter of 24 inches. Connection between the home
drain and the sewer must be water-tight and self-draining. Homes with fixtures
from which back-siphonage may occur shall be connected to the park’s water
system until the defect has been corrected.
   3.   In the event that a public sewer system is, or becomes available,
within 300 feet of a park, connection must be made to the public system within
180 days of notification by municipal officials.
   4.   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based on the
maximum capacity of the park. Effluent from sewage treatment facilities shall
not be discharged into the watershed of any municipal lake, or any other waters
of the state. The disposal facilities shall be located where they will not
create a nuisance or health hazard to the park or to the owner or occupants of
any adjacent property. The State Department of Health must approve the type of
treatment proposed and the design of any disposal facilities and sewer systems,
prior to construction.
   5.   Every mobile or manufactured home occupying a park space shall tie onto
the park sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated wastes into the system.
Every travel trailer shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle
provided in the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park,
such receptacles must be approved by the State Department of Health. Any other
dumping of accumulated waste within the city is prohibited.
   6.   The monthly sewer charge shall be as indicated in
Chapter 16 of this code of ordinances.
   7.   Sewer connections shall be water-tight. Park licensees shall maintain
trailer and home connections to sewer and water systems in good condition and
shall assume responsibility for sewerage or water leakage on park premises.
   8.   No sewer connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
§ 10-27 WATER SUPPLY FOR PARKS.
   1.   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 250 gallons per day,
per space. Where a public supply of water of such quality is available, within
300 feet, or becomes available within 300 feet, connection shall be made
thereto within 120 days of written notification by municipal representatives,
and its supply shall be used exclusively. Where private water supplies must be
developed, the Health Official must approve the location, construction and
development of the water well, pipe system and connections. No private source
other than a water well shall be used.
   2.   The water system of the park shall be connected by pipes to all
buildings and all spaces. Each home shall be provided with a cold water tap at
least four inches above the ground. An adequate supply of hot water shall be
provided at all times in the service buildings.
   3.   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
state and local law. The water piping system shall not be connected with non-
potable or questionable water supplies, and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back-siphonage. All water connections shall be weather-
tight.
   4.   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of
a type and in locations approved by the Health Official.
   5.   Individual water-service connections which are provided for direct use
by homes or travel trailers shall be of such construction so that they will not
be damaged by the parking of such homes or travel trailers. The park system
shall be adequate to provide 20 pounds per square inch of pressure at all home
or travel trailer connections.
   6.   Provisions shall be made within 150 feet of each travel trailer space
to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs.
   7.   No well-casing, pumps, machinery or suction pipes shall be located in
any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room or space
above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless such rooms,
whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the surface.
All floors shall be water-tight and sloped from the pump pedestal to the drain,
and floors shall extend at least two feet from the well in all directions. The
pedestal shall not be less than 12 inches above the floor. This shall not be
construed as prohibiting submersible pumps.
   8.   All water storage reservoirs shall be water-tight, and of impervious
material; all overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be effectively
screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be constructed with
overlapping covers, so as to prevent the entrance of contaminated material.
Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any pipe in which sewage
or polluted water may back up.
   9.   Underground stop and waste-cocks shall not be installed on any
connection.
   10.   No private water well shall be permitted within the city for park use,
except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the city; provided, that,
private wells may be used if the city does not provide a municipal water
system.
   11.   No water connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
§ 10-28 REFUSE DISPOSAL FOR PARKS; INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   1.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so
managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect-breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
   2.   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight and rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located within 150 feet of any home or travel
trailer space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient numbers and capacity
to properly store all refuse.
   3.   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designated as to prevent containers from
being tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration, and to
facilitate cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently
connected to racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
   4.   All refuse shall be collected at least once weekly, or as otherwise
required by the Health Official. Where municipal garbage collection is not
available, the park operator shall either employ a private agency or provide
this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles
or covered containers.
   5.   Where municipal or other private disposal service is not available, the
park operator shall dispose of the refuse by transporting to an approved
disposal site, as directed by the Health Official. Refuse shall be buried only
at locations and by methods approved by the Health Official, and in accordance
with the ordinances of the city.
   6.   When municipal refuse disposal service is available, it must be used.
   7.   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health, as
required by the Health Official, shall be applied in the park.
   8.   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the Health Official
for fly or mosquito-breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other, more
permanent measures.
   9.   The Health Official may require the park operator to take suitable
measures to control other insects and obnoxious weeds.
   10.   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be permitted in the park.
   11.   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the park,
the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the Health
Official, to exterminate them.
§ 10-29 ELECTRICITY; EXTERIOR LIGHTING; FUELS; POWER SOURCES.
   1.   An electrical outlet supplying at least 110 volts shall be provided for
each home space. The installation shall comply with all applicable state and
local Electrical Codes and ordinances. Such electrical outlets and extension
lines shall be grounded and weather-proofed. Plug receptacles shall also be
grounded and weather-proofed. No power supply line shall be permitted to lie on
the ground, and no main power line shall be suspended less than 18 feet above
the ground, unless otherwise approved by the Municipal Building Inspector.
   2.   Streets and driveways within all parks shall be lighted with street
lights meeting the current standards of the Illuminating Engineering Society or
one-half candlepower, whichever is higher.
   3.   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile or
manufactured homes shall be of acceptable material, as determined by the
Municipal Building Inspector, and shall be permanently installed and securely
fastened in place. All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely
fastened in place and shall not be located inside or beneath the home or less
than five feet from any home exit. All such installations shall meet the
requirements of applicable, adopted Codes.
   4.   All power used for residential or nonresidential purposes within the
park shall be derived from electricity, natural gas or solar energy sources.
§ 10-30 FIRE PROTECTION.
   1.   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable
materials.
   2.   Where the water supply system does not provide at least six-inch water
mains, there shall be provided a two-inch, frost-protected water riser within
300 feet of each home or building.
   3.   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking and/or heating
equipment intended for such purposes.
§ 10-31 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   1.   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall be
made in accordance with applicable local regulations.
   2.   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible, but areas enclosed by such
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   3.   A building permit issued by the City Clerk shall be required before any
construction on a mobile or manufactured home space or any structural addition
or alteration to the exterior of a home takes place. No construction, addition
or alteration to the exterior of a home located in a park shall be permitted
unless of the same type of construction or materials as the home affected. All
construction, additions or alterations shall be in compliance with applicable
local and state laws.
   4.   No structure, other than a mobile home and/or one storage shed, of no
more than 210 cubic feet, shall be permitted on a mobile home space.
§ 10-32 REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   1.   Each park licensee shall keep a register containing a record of all
home and travel owners and occupants located within the park. The register
shall contain the following information:
      a.   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each home and any
motor vehicle; and
      b.   The make, model, year and license of each mobile or manufactured
home and motor vehicle.
   2.   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by law-enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials whose
duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register.
The register of each occupant registered shall not be destroyed for a period of
one year, following the date of departure of the registrant from the park.
§ 10-33 DAMAGED OR DILAPIDATED UNITS.
   Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and travel trailers shall not
be kept or stored in a mobile home park or travel trailer park. The Municipal
Building Inspector or the Health Official shall determine if a mobile home or
travel trailer is damaged or dilapidated to a point which makes said mobile
home or travel trailer unfit for human occupancy on either a temporary or
permanent basis. Whenever such a determination is made, the mobile home or
travel trailer shall be vacated and removed from the premises.
§ 10-34 TIE-DOWNS.
   1.   Every home in a park or subdivision covered by the provisions of this
chapter shall be anchored and tied down for safety purposes in a manner
equivalent to the following:
      a.   Homes up to 30 feet in length shall require two frame ties per side;
      b.   Homes 30 to 50 feet in length shall require three frame ties per
side;
      c.   Homes 50 to 70 feet in length shall require four frame ties per
side;
      d.   Homes over 70 feet in length shall require five frame ties per side;
and
      e.   Over-the-home ties shall also be installed as close to each end as
possible with straps at stud and rafter locations.
   2.   All ties attached to concrete pads or ribbons must be located in
footings or foundation piers. If “dead man” ties are used, ties must be
installed in soil to a depth of at least six feet.
   3.   Additional tie-down requirements for homes in flood-prone areas shall
also be met. See
Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances.
§§ 10-35 THROUGH 10-49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: SUBDIVISIONS
§ 10-50 SUBDIVISIONS.
   1.   Manufactured housing and mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the
adopted subdivision regulations ordinance and zoning ordinance (if adopted) of
the city, except as otherwise provided herein.
   2.   The minimum size of such a subdivision shall be five acres.
   3.   No residences except mobile and/or manufactured homes shall be
permitted in such a subdivision.
   4.   Minimum effective lot widths in said subdivision shall be 50 feet,
measured at the front building line, and minimum lot areas shall be 5,000
square feet, consistent with the adopted zoning ordinance; provided, that, at
least a five-foot side yard shall be provided on each lot beyond any home and
additions thereto, and further provided, that, in areas not serviced by a
public sewer, the minimum additional lot area shall be determined by the Health
Official on the basis of safe and sanitary sewer service. The effective lot
width of a mobile or manufactured home lot shall be determined by the Health
Official on the basis of safe and sanitary sewer service. The effective lot
width of a mobile or manufactured home lot shall be determined, for interior
lots, by measuring at right angles across the lot from one diagonal side line
to the other, and for corner lots, the measurement shall be made at right
angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from perpendicular to
the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the required front yard,
to the opposite lot line, or an extension thereof.
   5.   Side lines of lots in said subdivisions need not be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   6.   Regardless of the effective lot width, said subdivision lots must abut
a public street for at least 25 feet.
   7.   All such subdivisions, except those developed under low density
residential zoning district standards, shall have a green belt planting strip
as defined herein.
§§ 10-51 THROUGH 10-69 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: MODULAR HOUSING
§ 10-70 TREATMENT OF MODULAR HOUSING.
   1.   Manufactured or mobile housing shall be considered as permanent-site or
modular housing only when it meets the following (federal) certification
criteria:
      a.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed only
for erection or installation on a site-built permanent foundation. A SITE-BUILT
PERMANENT FOUNDATION is a system of supports, including piers, either partially
or entirely below grade, which is:
         (1)   Capable of transferring all loads imposed upon the structure
into soil or bedrock without failure;
         (2)   Placed at an adequate depth below grade to prevent frost damage;
and
         (3)   Constructed of concrete, steel, treated lumber or grouted
masonry.
      b.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is not designed to
be moved once erected or installed on a site-built permanent foundation.
      c.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed and
manufactured to comply with the city’s adopted Building Code, or equivalent.
      d.   The manufacturer must certify that, to the manufacturer’s knowledge
this structure is not intended to be used other than on a site-built permanent
foundation.
   2.   Such certification shall be proof of the housing unit’s status as a
“modular” unit; without such certification, any manufactured housing unit shall
be considered a “mobile home” and treated as such for purposes of regulation.
§§ 10-71 THROUGH 10-79 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§§ 10-80 THROUGH 10-99 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 6: PENALTY
§ 10-100 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
an amount not to exceed the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which such violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
Article 1: Application of Chapter; Jurisdiction of Court
   
11-1   Application of chapter
   
11-2   Jurisdiction of Court
   
11-3 through 11-9 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Organization and Procedure
   
11-10   Judge; Alternate Judge; Acting Judge
   
11-11   Compensation of Judge
   
11-12   No change of venue; disqualification of Judge
   
11-13   Chief of Police
   
11-14   Municipal Attorney
   
11-15   Clerk of Court
   
11-16   Municipal Court fines
   
11-17   Traffic violations
   
11-18   Style of prosecutions
   
11-19   Summons
   
11-20   Complaints against a corporation
   
11-21   Warrant of arrest
   
11-22   Bail; temporary bonds
   
11-23   Arraignment
   
11-24   Postponement of trial
   
11-25   Trial procedure
   
11-26   Contempt
   
11-27   Defendant to be present at trial; failure to appear
   
11-28   Judgment
   
11-29   Costs upon judgment of conviction; court costs; Training Fund
   
11-30   Enforcement by imprisonment; persons unable to pay
   
11-31   Suspension of sentence; community service
   
11-32   Witness fees
   
11-33 through 11-49 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Penalty
   
11-50   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER; JURISDICTION OF COURT
§ 11-1 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   1.   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the
Municipal Court of the city as put into operation and continued by resolution,
duly passed and filed in accordance with state law, on and after June 26, 1970.
   2.   To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any other ordinance of the city, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
§ 11-2 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any provision of this code of
ordinances or of any other ordinance of the city is charged, including any such
prosecutions transferred to said Court, in accordance with applicable laws.
§§ 11-3 THROUGH 11-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
§ 11-10 JUDGE; ALTERNATE JUDGE; ACTING JUDGE.
   See
Chapter 1,
§ 1-45 of this code of ordinances.
§ 11-11 COMPENSATION OF JUDGE.
   The compensation of the Judge and the Alternate or Acting Judge of the
Municipal Court of the city shall be as determined by motion of the City
Council.
§ 11-12 NO CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   1.   In prosecutions before the Municipal Court, no change of venue shall be
allowed, but the Municipal Judge before whom the case is pending may certify a
personal disqualification or may be disqualified from sitting, under the terms,
conditions and procedures provided by law for courts of record.
   2.   If the Municipal Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an
Alternate or Acting Judge, appointed as provided in this code of ordinances.
§ 11-13 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or process of the Municipal Court shall be directed to the Chief
of Police of the city who shall be the principal officer of the Court, and
shall execute to all writs and other process directed to him or her; such
duties may also be performed by any other member of the police force.
§ 11-14 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney, or a duly designated assistant, shall be the
prosecuting officer of the Municipal Court, and shall be authorized to
prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the city and to prosecute
and resist appeals and proceedings in error and review from the Court to any
other courts of the state. The Municipal Attorney shall also be authorized to
represent the city in all proceedings arising out of matters of the Court. See
Chapter 1,
§ 1-46 of this code of ordinances.
§ 11-15 CLERK OF COURT.
   1.   The City Clerk, or a designated deputy, shall be the Clerk of the
Court. Duties of the Court Clerk shall include the following:
      a.   Assisting the Municipal Judge in recording the proceedings of the
Court and in preparing writs, process and other papers;
      b.   Administering oaths required in proceedings before the Court;
      c.   Entering all pleadings, process and proceedings in the dockets of
the Court;
      d.   Performing such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the Court, as the Municipal Judge shall direct;
      e.   Receiving and receipting for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the Court; and
      f.   Assuming responsibility for placing, or having placed, all money
received (except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed for special purposes), in the General Fund of the municipality, or in
such other fund and in such manner as the City Council may direct, by motion or
resolution.
   2.   The Clerk of the Court shall give bond to the city in the sum of
$1,000.
§ 11-16 MUNICIPAL COURT FINES.
   1.   The following schedule of fines is hereby established:
 
Action Fine
Action                                                               Fine
a. Traffic offenses-base fees and cost, minimum fine (when other     $249
   penalty is not provided in statute)
b. Speeding
      (1)   Minimum fine (1 to 10 mph over limit)              $100
      (2)   11 to 15 mph over limit                            $264
      (3)   16 to 20 mph over limit                            $279
      (4)   21 to 25 mph over limit                            $319
      (5)   26 to 30 mph over limit                            $379
      (6)   31 to 35 mph over limit                            $399
      (7)   36 mph and up over the limit                       $449
c. Speeding in school zone/construction
      (1)   Minimum fine (1 to 10 mph over limit)              $105
      (2)   11 to 15 mph over limit                            $284
      (3)   16 to 20 mph over limit                            $314
      (4)   21 to 25 mph over limit                            $394
      (5)   26 to 30 mph over limit                            $514
      (6)   31 to 35 mph over limit                            $554
      (7)   36 mph and up over limit                           $654
d. Improper passing violations
      (1)   Improper passing on the left                       $249
      (2)   Driving left of center violation                   $249
      (3)   Failure to give way to right when being passed     $249
      (4)   Failure to signal when passing                     $249
      (5)   Improper passing on the right                      $249
      (6)   Passing without sufficient clearance               $249
e. Operating a motor vehicle without a valid driver’s license      $294
f. Failure to obey a lawful traffic control sign, signal, device     $249
g. Transporting an open container (TOC)                              $374
h. Seat belt or child restraint                                      $20
i. Failure to use child restraint system                             $269
j. Failure to stop for a school bus loading or unloading children    $469
k. Operating a motor vehicle in a manner not reasonable and proper   $294
l. Reckless driving
      (1)   First offense                                      $512.75
      (2)   Second offense                                     $562.75
m. Non-commercial drivers operating a vehicle while using a          $254
   communication device to compose, send or read a text message
n. Endangerment of an emergency worker
      (1)   No injury; first offense                           $1244
      (2)   No injury; second offense                          $2744
      (3)   Injury resulting                                   $744
      (4)   Death resulting                                    $1244
o. Operating a vehicle without current license plate or with state   $294
   taxes due
p. Failure to secure a load                                          $249
q. Offenses related to CDS                                           $750
r. Public intoxication                                               Up to $800
s. Misdemeanors                                                      Up to $800
t. City ordinance violations                                         Up to $750
u. Leaving a child or vulnerable adult unattended in a motor vehicle
      (1)   First offense                                      $294
      (2)   Second offense                                     $344
      (3)   Third offense                                      $444
      (4)   On premises which holds a liquor license           $744
 
   2.   If a defendant pleads guilty and desires to pay his or her fine with
the Court Clerk, before Court, to speeding in a school zone or a construction
zone, the amount of the fine will double the amount in the fine schedule, plus
added to the fine amount will be payment of court cost and penalty assessment
fee.
   3.   The above fine schedule does not include the $19 penalty assessment
fee, which must be added to each fine amount and a $30 court cost must be added
to each fine.
   4.   Persons charged with the below listed offenses must go to court on
their court date and cannot pay their fine at the violations bureaus, before
their court date.
      a.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while
impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating substances;
      b.   Attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
      c.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
      d.   An arrest based on an outstanding warrant;
      e.   A traffic violation coupled with an offense stated above; and
      f.   Assault and battery.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 7-11-2011; Ord. 13-04, passed 6-10-2013; Ord. 13-06, passed
11-12-2013; Ord. 2024- 15, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 11-17 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   1.   If a police officer observes facts which are believed to constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of the city committed by any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a violation of a municipal traffic ordinance,
such person shall be released by the arresting officer upon personal
recognizance if:
      a.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States, or any participating jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      b.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      c.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear, as provided
for on the citation; and
      d.   The violation does not constitute:
         (1)   A felony;
         (2)   Negligent homicide;
         (3)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         (4)   Eluding, or attempting to elude, a law enforcement officer;
         (5)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         (6)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         (7)   A traffic violation coupled with an offense stated in
subsections 1.d.(1) through 1.d.(6) above;
         (8)   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         (9)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   2.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal recognizance
as provided for in subsection 1. above, then the arresting officer shall, in
writing, in a form prescribed by the City Council, or a duly designated
delegate:
      a.   Designate the traffic charge;
      b.   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
      c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
      d.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
      e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation. The arresting officer shall then release the
person upon personal recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The
citation shall contain a written notice to the arrested person that release
upon personal recognizance, based upon a signed written promise to appear for
arraignment, is conditional and that failure to timely appear for appear for
arraignment, is conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment
shall result in the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in
Oklahoma, or in the nonresident’s home state pursuant to the nonresident
violator compact.
   3.   The Court, or the Court Clerk, as directed by the Court, may continue
or reschedule the date and time of arraignment upon request of the arrested
person or an attorney. If the arraignment is continued or re-scheduled, the
arrested person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise to
appear until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same
consequences, as if the continued or re-scheduled arraignment were entered on
the citation by the arresting officer and signed by the defendant. An
arraignment may be continued or re-scheduled more than one time; provided,
however, that, the Court shall require an arraignment to be had within a
reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of the defendant to appear for
arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as provided for in subsection 4.
below.
   4.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before a
requirement to appear for arraignment, by indicating such plea on the copy of
the furnished citation, or on a legible copy thereof, together with the date of
the plea and a signature. The defendant shall be responsible for assuring full
payment of the fine and costs to the appropriate Court Clerk. Payment of the
fine and costs may be made by personal, cashier’s, traveler’s, certified or
guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial money order, or other form of
payment approved by the Court, in an amount prescribed as bail for the offense;
provided, however, that, the defendant shall not use currency for payment by
mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, as
provided for in this subsection 4., such plea shall be accepted by the Court
and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed in this chapter as
bail for the violation.
   5.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection 4. above, the defendant
does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere and fails to
timely appear for arraignment, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter; the Municipal Court Clerk,
within 120 calendar days from the date the citation was issued by the arresting
officer, shall notify the Department of Public Safety that:
      a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for
arraignment, as provided for in the citation;
      b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
      c.   The violation related to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit or the transportation of hazardous materials;
and
      d.   The citation has not been satisfied, as provided by law.
   6.   Additionally, the Court Clerk shall request the Department of Public
Safety to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license to operate a motor
vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant’s home state and request
suspension of the defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with the
provisions of the nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall
be on a form approved or furnished by the Department of Public Safety.
   7.   The Court Clerk shall not process the notification and request provided
for in this subsection 7. if, with respect to such charges:
      a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was jailed,
or otherwise settled the case;
      b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear, as provided for in this section, or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
      c.   The violation related to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
      d.   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date the
citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   8.   The Municipal Court Clerk shall maintain a record of each request for
driver’s license suspension submitted to the Department of Public Safety
pursuant to the provisions of this section. When the Court or Court Clerk
receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the
citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant or otherwise closes the
case, the Court Clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the
defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation, or at
such other address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the Court or
Court Clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant, as listed on
the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator
compact, and shall, in all other cases, notify the Department of the resolution
of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for notification shall be
approved by the Department of Public Safety; provided, however, that, the Court
or Court Clerk’s failure to furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided
for in this subsection 8. shall in no event create any civil liability upon the
Court, the Court Clerk, the state or any political subdivision thereof, or any
state department or agency, or employee thereof. Duplicate proof shall be
furnished to the person entitled thereto, upon request.
   9.   If a resident of the city is arrested by a law enforcement officer for
the violation of any traffic ordinance for which subsections 1. through 8.
above do not apply, the officer shall immediately release said person if the
person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it; provided, however,
that, the arresting officer need not release said person if it reasonably
appears to the officer that the person may cause self-injury or injury to
others, or damage to property if released, that the person will not appear in
response to the citation, or the person is arrested for an offense against a
person or property. If said person fails to appear in response to the citation,
a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be prosecuted as otherwise
provided in this article.
   10.   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a
citation as provided for in subsection 9., said person shall be admitted to
bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal
recognizance. A fine for up to the maximum amount authorized by courts not of
record may be assessed for failure of a person to have a valid driver’s
license, when charged with a traffic violation.
   11.   If a resident or nonresident of the city, is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which subsections 1.
through 8. above do not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted
to bail either before or after arraignment.
   12.   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the provisions
of subsections 9., 10. and 11. above shall be determined by the Judge, who
shall prescribe rules for the receipt of bail and the release on personal
recognizance. In the event of arrests at night, emergencies or when the Judge
is not available, a court official, the Chief of Police or a designated
representative may be authorized by the Judge, subject to such conditions as
shall be prescribed by the Judge, to accept a temporary cash bond in a
sufficient amount to secure the appearance of the accused. The cash bond shall
not exceed the maximum fine provided for by ordinance for each offense charged.
The Court Official, Chief of Police or a designated representative is
authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by the Judge, to
release a resident of the municipality on personal recognizance.
   13.   If the defendant is not eligible for release upon personal
recognizance, as provided for in subsections 1. through 9. above, or is
eligible but refuses to sign a written promise to appear, the officer shall
deliver the person to an appropriate Judge for arraignment and the Judge shall
proceed as otherwise provided for by law. If no Judge is available, the
defendant shall be placed in the custody of the appropriate municipal jailor or
custodian, to be held until a judge is available, or bail is posted as provided
for by ordinance, before or after arraignment.
   14.   If a resident or nonresident is arrested for any overweight violation,
a violation of a special permit exceeding authorized permit weight, or
violation relating to the transportation of hazardous material, the arresting
officer may release the defendant if the defendant deposits with the arresting
officer appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs in an amount and in
the form as provided in this article, except currency.
   15.   In the event the defendant is additionally arrested for any violation
for which personal recognizance is authorized pursuant to subsections 1.
through 8. above, the arresting officer, for such additional violation, may
either release the defendant upon such recognizance, or require bail as
provided for in this subsection 15.
   16.   If the defendant is unable to post bail with the arresting officer,
then the officer shall proceed as otherwise provided for in this section.
   17.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a juvenile may be held in
custody pursuant to the provisions of this section, but shall be incarcerated
separately from any adult offender; provided, however, that, the arresting
officer shall not be required to:
      a.   Place a juvenile into custody as provided for in this section; or
      b.   Place any other traffic offender into custody:
         (1)   Who is injured, disabled or otherwise incapacitated;
         (2)   Whose custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo or items requiring special maintenance
or care; or
         (3)   Where, if extraordinary circumstances exist in the judgment of
the arresting officer, custodial arrest should not be made.
      c.   In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and time
for arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person fails to
appear without good cause shown, the Court may issue a warrant for the person’s
arrest.
      d.   The provisions of this subsection 17. shall not be construed to:
         (1)   Create any duty on the part of the officer to release a person
from custody;
         (2)   Create any duty on the part of the officer to make any inquiry
or investigation relating to any condition which may justify release under this
subsection 17.d.(2); or
         (3)   Create any liability upon any officer, the state or any
political subdivision thereof, arising from the decision to release or not to
release such person from custody pursuant to the provisions of this subsection
17.d.(3).
   18.   If the alleged offense is a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator is not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in this
section, with such variation as the circumstances require. The operator of the
vehicle shall be under full obligation to respond to the citation.
§ 11-18 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS.
   All prosecutions for violation of this code of ordinances or other
ordinances of the municipality, shall be styled “The City of Cache, Oklahoma,
Plaintiff, vs. (naming defendant or defendants)”. Except as otherwise provided
with respect to traffic violations, prosecutions shall be initiated by the
filing of a written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the
complaint and setting forth concisely the offense charged.
§ 11-19 SUMMONS.
   1.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging a violation of this code of
ordinances or other ordinance(s) of the city, the Municipal Judge, unless said
Judge determines to issue a warrant of arrest, unless the defendant previously
has been issued a citation, or unless said defendant has been arrested and
given bond for such appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying the address or place of residence (if known), stating the
offense charged and giving notice to answer the charge in the Municipal Court
on a day certain, five days hence (Sundays and holidays excepted), or the next
Municipal Court date after the summons is served, containing a provision for
the official return of the summons and including such other pertinent
information as may be necessary.
   2.   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. Failure to appear and answer the summons within the prescribed
period shall constitute indirect contempt of court, and a warrant shall be
issued for the defendant’s arrest, as provided by this chapter.
§ 11-20 COMPLAINTS AGAINST A CORPORATION.
   1.   Upon complaint against a corporation being filed with the Municipal
Judge of the city, said Judge shall issue a summons in a form as outlined in
this chapter, signed with the title of office, requiring the corporation to
appear before said judge at a specific time and place to answer the complaint.
   2.   The summons must be served at least two days before the day of
appearance fixed therein, by delivering a copy thereof and showing the original
to the president, secretary, cashier or managing agent or director of the
corporation.
   3.   At the time appointed in the summons, the Municipal Judge shall try the
complaint in the same manner as in the case of any other person brought before
said Court.
   4.   When a fine is imposed upon conviction, it may be collected by the
Municipal Judge making a transcript of the proceedings thereof, together with
the judgment of the Court duly certified and filed with the Clerk of the
District Court, and execution shall be issued thereon and served by the Sheriff
of the county, as in cases of execution generally.
§ 11-21 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   1.   Except as may otherwise be provided in this code of ordinances, upon
the filing of a complaint, approved by the endorsement of the City Attorney or
by the Municipal Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest in
substantially the following form:
The City of Cache, Oklahoma, to the Chief of Police of the Municipal Court of
Cache, Oklahoma:
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by, that the offense of _______
has been committed and accusing ___________, thereof, you are commended
therefore forthwith to arrest the above-named (Defendant or Defendants) and
bring (him, her, them) before me at my office at the Cache, Oklahoma, Municipal
Court Room.
      Witness my hand this ____________ day of _____________, 20______.
                           Judge of the Municipal Court of the City of Cache,
Oklahoma.
   2.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to execute such warrant as
promptly as possible, either:
      a.   Personally;
      b.   Through a duly constituted member of the police force of the city;
or
      c.   Through any other person lawfully authorized to act.
§ 11-22 BAIL; TEMPORARY BONDS.
   1.   Whenever a resident of the city is arrested for a violation of any
ordinance by a police officer of said city, the officer shall immediately
release such person if said individual acknowledges receipt of a citation by
signing it, unless it reasonably appears to the officer that the person may
cause self injury or injury to others, or damage to property, if released, or
if it reasonably appears that the person will not appear in response to the
citation. (If such person fails to appear in response to the citation, an
arrest warrant shall be issued and an appearance in Court shall be compelled.)
   2.   Whenever a resident of the city is arrested by a police officer of said
city for the violation of any ordinance, and is not released by being permitted
to sign a citation as provided hereinabove in subsection 1., said resident
shall be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or released on
said person’s own recognizance.
   3.   Whenever a nonresident of the city is arrested by a police officer of
said city for a violation other than a traffic violation, the defendant shall
be eligible to be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
   4.   The city may require any person who is arrested by a police officer of
said city for a municipal traffic violation to comply with statutory procedures
for state traffic violations, with respect to the release of the arrested
person. The following methods of posting bail shall apply:
      a.   Posting cash bail, in exchange for a receipt therefor, issued by the
arresting officer;
      b.   Depositing with the arresting officer a “guaranteed arrest bond
certificate”; or
      c.   Depositing with the arresting officer a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, in exchange for a receipt therefor, issued by the arresting
officer, which shall be recognized as an operator’s license and shall authorize
the person’s operation of a motor vehicle to the date of the hearing; provided,
that, said date shall not exceed 20 days from the date of arrest.
   5.   The amount and any conditions of bail granted under this section shall
be determined by the Municipal Judge, who shall prescribe rules for the receipt
of bail and for release by personal recognizance. In the event of arrests at
night, other emergencies or when the Municipal Judge is not available, the
Chief of Police (or a designated representative) shall be authorized by the
Municipal Judge, under such conditions as shall be prescribed by said Judge, to
accept a temporary cash bond in a sufficient amount to secure the appearance of
the accused, but in no event shall the cash bond be more than the allowable
maximum fine for each offense charged. The Chief of Police (or his or her
designated representative) is authorized, subject to such conditions as shall
be prescribed by the Municipal Judge, to release a resident of the city on said
person’s own recognizance.
§ 11-23 ARRAIGNMENT.
   Upon making an appearance before the Municipal Court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The Municipal Judge or the City Attorney shall read the complaint to
the defendant, inform said defendant of all legal rights, of the consequences
of conviction, and ask whether the plea is guilty or not guilty. If the
defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to judgment and sentence, or may
continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, the
Court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
§ 11-24 POSTPONEMENT OF TRIAL.
   Before a trail commences in the Municipal Court, either party, upon good
cause shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
§ 11-25 TRIAL PROCEDURE.
   In all trials in the Municipal Court as to matters not covered:
   1.   In this chapter;
   2.   By the statutes relating to Municipal Criminal Courts; or
   3.   By rules duly promulgated by the Supreme Court of the state, the
procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the District Courts shall
apply, to the extent that they can be made effective.
§ 11-26 CONTEMPT.
   1.   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Municipal
Judge or by the Municipal Court, may be enforced by said Judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed while holding Court, or committed against
process issued by said Judge, in the same manner and to the same extent, as the
District Courts of this state.
   2.   It shall be an offense to be in contempt, directly or indirectly, of
the Municipal Court of the city and of its orders.
§ 11-27 DEFENDANT TO BE PRESENT AT TRIAL; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   1.   The defendant must be personally present at the trial in the Municipal
Court.
   2.   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according to
the terms or conditions of the bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial or
judgment, or upon any other occasion when presence in Court or before the
magistrate may be lawfully required, the Municipal Judge may direct that fact
to be entered upon the Court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be
forfeited. Without advancing Court costs, said Judge shall then cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the District Court of the county wherein the
situs of government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the judgment
docket and shall have the full force and effect of a District Court judgment.
At such time as the forfeiture is entered upon the District Court judgment
docket, the District Court Clerk shall proceed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of state statutes.
§ 11-28 JUDGMENT.
   1.   At the close of a trial in the Municipal Court, judgment must be
rendered by the Municipal Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his or her
docket.
   2.   If the judgment of the Municipal Court is of acquittal and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, said defendant must
be discharged at once.
   3.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
Municipal Court must render judgment thereof, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by this code of ordinances or other applicable ordinance, and
imposing sentence accordingly.
§ 11-29 COSTS UPON JUDGMENT OF CONVICTION; COURT COSTS; TRAINING FUND.
   1.   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax
the costs to the defendant, in a sum not to exceed $100, including the fees and
mileage of witnesses, but not including court costs or LEOTF contributions.
   2.   Court costs shall be no more than $15 per case, and shall be added on
top of any fine; all monies collected shall be deposited in the appropriate
municipal fund.
   3.   For every fine or bond forfeiture of $10 or more collected by the
Municipal Court or the Traffic Violations Bureau of the city, the amount
required by current state law shall be paid to the Court as a separate penalty
assessment (which shall be in addition to all other fines and costs), to be
used to reimburse the State Law Enforcement Officers Training Fund (LEOTF); the
City Treasurer, or other individual designated by the City Council, shall
forward the total reimbursement to the state, as long as required by, and in
accordance with, state law.
§ 11-30 ENFORCEMENT BY IMPRISONMENT; PERSONS UNABLE TO PAY.
   1.   If a defendant who is financially able, refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment, until the same
shall be satisfied, at the rate of $25 per day.
   2.   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
Municipal Judge of the city may direct the total amount due to be entered upon
the Court minutes and to be certified to the District Court of the county
wherein the situs of government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the
District Court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a
District Court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be available for
the enforcement of said judgment as are available to any other judgment
creditor.
§ 11-31 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE; COMMUNITY SERVICE.
   1.   After conviction and sentence of a defendant in the Municipal Court of
the city, the Municipal Judge may suspend sentence in accordance with the
provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by,
applicable provisions of 11 O.S.
§ 27-123.
   2.   The Municipal Judge may, in lieu of imprisonment or fines, order the
defendant to engage in a term of specified community service, without
compensation.
§ 11-32 WITNESS FEES.
   1.   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Municipal Court, other than police
officers or peace officers, whenever, under the laws of this state, a person
may be compelled by order, subpoena or other lawful compulsion to appear as a
witness, whether or not testimony or other evidence is actually adduced, the
witness shall receive the following:
      a.   For a witness who appears from another state or foreign country in a
criminal proceeding in this state, the amount specified in 22 O.S. § 718;
      b.   For a witness who appears from this state in a criminal proceeding
in another state, the amount specified in 22 O.S. § 722; and
      c.   For a witness who appears from this state pursuant to an order,
subpoena or other lawful means for compelling the appearance of the witness,
$10 for each day of attendance, plus reimbursement as prescribed by law for
travel expenses at rates not to exceed those prescribed by law for
reimbursement for state employees.
         (1)   In computing mileage allowances for witnesses, parts of a mile
shall be rounded to the nearest whole number of miles. Where the total mileage
actually and necessarily traveled is less than one and one-half miles, no
mileage shall be allowed.
         (2)   No witness shall receive per diem or mileage in more than one
case covering the same period of time, or the same travel, and each witness
shall be required to make oath that the fees claimed have not been claimed or
received in any other case, and no juror while serving as a juror or party to a
civil action shall receive compensation as a witness.
   2.   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit, with the Clerk
of the Court, a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of
attendance for each witness to be summoned; such deposit shall not be required
from an indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      a.   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      b.   That the defendant, by reason of poverty, is unable to provide fees
and mileage allowed by law;
      c.   The testimony of such witnesses is material; and
      d.   Their attendance at the trial is necessary for proper defense.
   3. The fees of witnesses in such cases (subsection 2. above) shall be paid
by the city.
§§ 11-33 THROUGH 11-49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: PENALTY
§ 11-50 PENALTY.
   1.   The Judge of the Municipal Court of the city may impose a maximum fine
for traffic related offenses related to speeding or parking not to exceed $200.
   2.   The Judge of Municipal Court of the city may impose a maximum fine for
all other offenses not to exceed $500.
   3.   If the Judge is not a licensed attorney, the Court may impose a fine
not to exceed $50.
   4.   Additionally, no municipality may levy a fine of over $50 until it has
compiled and published its penal ordinances, as required by law.
   5.   No municipality may levy a fine of more than $10, nor court costs of
more than $15 for exceeding the posted speed limit by no more than ten mph upon
any portion of the national system of interstate and defense highways, federal-
aid primary highways and the state highway system, which are located on the
outskirts of any municipality.
   6.   A municipal ordinance may not impose a penalty, including fine and
costs, which is greater than that established by state law for the same
offense. The maximum fine for traffic offenses related to speeding or parking
shall not exceed $200. For all other offenses, the maximum fine shall not
exceed $500. The ordinances of the municipality may prescribe costs pursuant to
appropriate state law, or imprisonment not exceeding 60 days, or both fine and
imprisonment; provided, that, municipalities having only a municipal court not
of record shall not have authority to enact any ordinance making unlawful any
act or omission declared by state law to be punishable as a felony.
   7.   Municipalities having a Municipal Court not of record may enact
ordinances prescribing maximum fines of $1,000, and costs or imprisonment not
exceeding 90 days, or both, for violations of municipal ordinances regulating
the pre-treatment of wastewater and/or regulating stormwater discharges.
   8.   In all prosecutions in the Municipal Court for any offense for which
the municipality, with the concurrence of the Court, seeks imposition of a fine
of more than $200, excluding court costs or imprisonment, or both, a jury trial
shall be had, unless waived by the defendant and the municipality; provided,
that, the municipality has compiled its penal ordinances, in accordance with
state law.
CHAPTER 12: NUISANCES
Section
Article 1: General Provisions
   
12-1   Definitions
   
12-2   Nuisance unlawful
   
12-3   City Council may determine and define nuisances
   
12-4   Nuisance defined
   
12-5   Public nuisances; possible remedies
   
12-6   Private nuisances; possible remedies
   
12-7   Person liable
   
12-8   Procedure cumulative
   
12-9 through 12-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Abatement of Nuisances
   
12-20   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
12-21   Abatement of public health nuisances
   
12-22   Removal of unsafe and dilapidated structures
   
12-23   Cleaning and mowing of property
   
12-24 through 12-39 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Penalty
   
12-40   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 12-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The City Clerk or the nuisance abatement official
appointed by the City Council.
   BOARDED AND SECURED. The closing, boarding or locking of any or all exterior
openings, so as to prevent entry into a structure.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING. A structure which, through neglect or injury lacks the
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin, to such
an extent that said structure is a hazard to the health, safety and welfare of
the general public.
   OWNER. The owner(s) of record, as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste or other matter of any kind or form which is
uncared for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEEDS.
      a.   Includes, but not be limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity, which:
         (1)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden, unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit, safety and/or welfare of the public or community,
create a traffic or fire hazard, or otherwise interfere with the mowing of said
weeds;
         (2)   Conceals or invites deposition or accumulation of refuse or
trash, regardless of the height of the vegetation;
         (3)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (4)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (5)   Constitutes a traffic or fire hazard; or
         (6)   Is dead or diseased.
      b.   Provided, that, the word WEEDS shall not include tended crops or
land zoned for agricultural use, which crops are planted more than 150 feet
from a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use.
§ 12-2 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person (owner, lessee or other) to create or
maintain a nuisance, or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under said
person’s control, within the corporate limits of the city.
§ 12-3 CITY COUNCIL MAY DETERMINE AND DEFINE NUISANCES.
   The City Council has the power to determine what is and what shall
constitute a nuisance within the corporate limits of the city and, for the
protection of the public health, parks and water supply, outside of said city’s
corporate limits.
§ 12-4 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists of unlawfully doing an act, omitting to perform a duty
or anything or condition which:
   1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, health or safety of others;
   2.   Offends public decency;
   3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for use, any lake, drainageway, stream, stream basin, public park,
street or other public property; or
   4.   In any way renders persons insecure in life or in the use of property.
§ 12-5 PUBLIC NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES.
   1.   A public nuisance is one which affects, at the same time, an entire
community, neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   2.   The possible remedies against a public nuisance are:
      a.   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      b.   Prosecution of information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      c.   Civil action; and
      d.   Abatement:
         (1)   By the person injured; or
         (2)   By the municipality, in accordance with state law or ordinance.
   3.   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
§ 12-6 PRIVATE NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES.
   1.   Every nuisance not included in
§ 12-5 is a private nuisance.
   2.   The possible remedies against a private nuisance are:
      a.   Civil action; and
      b.   Abatement:
         (1)   By the person injured; or
         (2)   By the municipality, in accordance with state law or ordinance.
§ 12-7 PERSON LIABLE.
   Every successive owner of property, who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it.
§ 12-8 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of state law and ordinances shall be cumulative one to the
other; the City Council may elect to follow any such procedure which is
applicable in abating any particular nuisance.
§§ 12-9 THROUGH 12-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
§ 12-20 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   1.   Whenever it is practical to do so, the City Council has the power
summarily to abate any such nuisance, after notice to the owner and opportunity
to be heard, if this can be done.
   2.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or the public generally, and it is recognized that, in such
circumstances, the Mayor (or a representative) may be justified or required to
take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to
reduce or suspend the danger, until more deliberate action can be taken toward
such abatement.
   3.   The Fire Chief, the Chief of Police, the City Attorney, the Health
Official, any Trustee, any resident of the city or any other officer
subordinate to the City Council, may submit to said City Council, a statement
as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by state law or the ordinances of
the city, and a request or recommendation that it be abated.
   4.   The City Council shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is
a nuisance in fact, and before proceeding to have the nuisance abated, said
City Council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the
owner of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed
responsible for, or to be causing, the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to
be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such
notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by
mail or by service (by a police officer), if their names and addresses are
known; if the names and addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person, persons or public adversely affected would not
be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city or county.
   5.   If the City Council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for, or causing the nuisance,
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person, persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly
jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within
the specified time, the City Council shall direct the Mayor to abate the
nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is practical.
   6.   The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for, or causing, the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city,
collectible as other debts of the city may be collected.
§ 12-21 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES.
   1.   The Local or County Health Official shall have the authority to order,
in writing, the owner or occupant of any private premises in the city to remove
from such premises, within a reasonable length of time and at the owner’s
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease or any other condition adversely affecting the public health; failure
to do so shall constitute an offense. Such order shall be served on the owner
or occupant (or agent) of the premises by the Local or County Health Official,
or a police officer. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the
owner, occupant or agent, if unknown, is without the state, the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the city or county.
   2.   If the order is not complied with, the Health Official may cause the
order to be executed, and the cost thereof shall be certified to the City
Clerk; the cost of abating such nuisance shall be added to the municipal
utility bill of the owner or occupant (if a user of any municipal utility
service) and shall become due and payable and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any municipal utility service, such
costs, after certification to the City Clerk, may be collected in any manner in
which any other debt due the city may be collected.
§ 12-22 REMOVAL OF UNSAFE AND DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES.
   1.   When, in the opinion of the Municipal Building Inspector, the Local or
County Health Official or any municipal official, any building, wall or other
structure upon, adjoining or near any street, avenue, alley or public ground
within the city becomes dangerous, insecure or liable to collapse from inherent
structural weakness or decay, or which, from fire damage or other causes,
becomes a menace to life or property, the same may be declared to be a
nuisance.
      a.   Any such building shall be reported by the Municipal Building
Inspector or any municipal official to the City Council, together with the lot
and block number, the owner (or agent) and a description of the condition.
Additional data shall be provided, including material from the community’s
preservation inventory, concerning historic and/or architectural significance.
      b.   Upon receipt of such report, the City Council shall review the
significance to the community by requesting a recommendation from the
Preservation Commission; following review of said recommendation, the City
Council shall consider whether or not to declare such building or structure to
be a nuisance and serve 15 days’ legal written notice on the owner (or agent)
to wreck or remove the same, or provide an alternative proposal for
restoration, sale and restoration, or other appropriate method of encouraging
productive re-use of the structure. Said notice shall be posted on the property
to be affected, and shall also be sent by certified mail, with return receipt
requested, to the owner, as shown on the County Treasurer’s records. Written
notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder, as shown by the County
Clerk’s records. If neither the property owner nor the mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by legal notice; such notice may be published
once, not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the city
pursuant to the provisions of this section, or, as an alternative, notice may
be given by first-class mail to the property owner and mortgage holder.
      c.   The City Council may hear all objections and evidence in relation
thereto and, unless the owner can show good and sufficient reason why the
building should not be condemned, the original order of said City Council shall
be executed, or any appropriate alternative solution may be implemented.
      d.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property constitutes
a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefitted by the
removal of such conditions, the City Council may cause the dilapidated building
to be torn down and removed, or implement an alternative solution, and shall
fix reasonable dates for the commencement and completion of the work.
      e.   The City Clerk shall immediately file a notice of lien with the
County Clerk describing the property, the findings of the municipality at the
hearing and stating that the municipality claims a lien on said property for
the destruction and removal costs. The agents of the municipality are granted
the right of entry on the property for the performance of the necessary duties
as a governmental function of the municipality, if the work is not performed by
the property owner within dates fixed by the City Council.
      f.   The City Council shall determine the actual cost of the repair,
restoration, dismantling or removal of dilapidated buildings and any other
expenses that may be necessary in conjunction with the removal of the nuisance
conditions, including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall
forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to the work on the
buildings and a demand for payment of such costs, by certified mail with return
receipt requested, to the property owner. In addition, a copy of said statement
shall be mailed to any mortgage holder.
      g.   If the municipality repairs, restores, dismantles or removes any
dilapidated buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the
actual cost of the labor, maintenance and equipment required for the actual
repairs, restoration, dismantling or removal of the dilapidated buildings. If
work on the dilapidated building is done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the most responsible and most responsive bidder.
      h.   When payment is made to the municipality for costs incurred, the
City Clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the
actual cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within
six months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such
property, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the cost to the County Treasurer. Said costs shall be levied on the property
and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. The
cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the
date the notice of the lien is filed with the County Clerk. Said lien shall be
co-equal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special
assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid. At
any time prior to collection, the municipality may pursue any civil remedy for
collection of the amount owed and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, the
City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and
shall direct discharge of the lien.
      i.   Nothing in the provisions of this section shall prevent the
municipality from abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise
exercising its police power to protect the health, safety or welfare of the
general public.
      j.   After a building has been declared dilapidated, and before the
commencement of the removal of the nuisance conditions on the dilapidated
building, the City Council may authorize that such a building be boarded and
secured.
   2.   Any municipal official shall have the right to stop the construction of
any building or structure, or the alteration, repair or wrecking of the same,
if the same is being done in a careless or reckless manner, or in violation of
the provisions of this code of ordinances.
§ 12-23 CLEANING AND MOWING OF PROPERTY.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot, tract or parcel of land
situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the city to allow
trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises and it shall be
the duty of such owner to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
   2.   Any officer or employee of the city who discovers an accumulation of
trash or growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the corporate limits of said city, shall report the condition to the
Administrative Officer (who shall be appointed by the City Council) if, as a
result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to be:
      a.   Detrimental to the health, safety, benefit and welfare of the public
and the community;
      b.   A hazard to traffic; or
      c.   A fire hazard to property.
   3.   Upon receiving the report provided for in subsection 2. above, or upon
receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source, and upon
determination that a nuisance or violation of the code of ordinances exists,
the Administrative Officer shall give written notice of the finding and direct
the owner or occupant to abate the condition within ten days.
   4.   The written notice provided for in subsection 3. above shall be sent to
the owner of the property at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls
in the office of the Treasurer of the county in which the property is located.
The Administrative Officer or designee shall obtain a receipt of mailing from
the postal service, the receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee. If the owner cannot be served by mail, notice may be
given by publication as provided in 11 O.S. §22-111, one time, not less than
ten days prior to any hearing or action by the city. If the City Council
anticipates further abatement of any nuisance in accordance with provisions of
this section, the notice shall state that “Any accumulations of trash or
excessive weed or grass growth on the property occurring within six months
after the initial removal of trash or the cutting or mowing of weeds or grass
on the property pursuant to such notice may be summarily abated by the City
Council. Further, the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the
owner, and a lien may be imposed on such property to secure such payment. All
such actions may be taken without further notice to the property owner.”
   5.   The owner of the property may give his or her written consent to the
city authorizing the removal of the nuisance; by providing written consent, the
owner waives his or her right to a hearing.
   6.   Upon a finding that a condition exists as set out in subsection 2.
above, and that the property would be benefitted by the removal of such
condition, and after at least ten days from the date of receipt of the notice
by the owner or occupant or the date of publication, the Administrative Officer
shall order the property to be cleaned of trash, or order trash or weeds to be
cut, removed or destroyed, unless the owner:
      a.   Has cut, removed or destroyed the trash or weeds in accordance with
the notice; or
      b.   Has filed a written request for a hearing on the matter with the
City Clerk within a ten-day period to appeal the Administrative Officer’s
decision to the City Council. If the owner or occupant has given written
consent authorizing the city to abate the trash or weeds, any right to a
hearing shall be considered waived, and the owner shall pay for the cost of the
work. The City Council may affirm, reverse or modify the order of the
Administrative Officer. The City Council’s review shall be limited to a review
of the finding of facts and order of the Administrative Officer to determine if
the provisions of this section have been complied with.
   7.   At any hearing onto the matter, the Administrative Officer may receive
information thereto, including anything which may be presented by the owner of
the premises, personally or by agent or attorney. The Administrative Officer
shall prepare a written finding of the facts and order which will be placed in
the property files.
   8.   The work ordered to be performed under this section may be done by the
city or it may be let by contract to the most responsible and most responsive
bidder for a period of not to exceed one year. Immediately following the
cleaning or mowing, the City Clerk shall file a notice of lien with the County
Clerk, in accordance with state law.
   9.   Upon completion of the work ordered to be performed under this section,
the city shall prepare a statement, itemizing each tract of property involved,
as follows: labor; machinery rental or depreciation; fuel and supplies; cost of
notice; other costs and indirect costs; along with a demand for payment of the
total cost, and forward it by certified mail, with return receipt requested,
to:
      a.   The owner of the property at the address shown by the current tax
rolls in the office of the Treasurer of the county in which the property lies;
or
      b.   To the address given by the person giving written consent or
requesting the appeal, as provided for hereinabove.
   10.   If the costs of the work performed under this section are not paid
within 30 days from the date of mailing the statement prescribed by subsection
9. above, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the costs to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property upon
which the work was done is located, in order that the amount be levied upon the
property and be collected by the County Treasurer in the manner prescribed by
the law of this state. The lien is co-equal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and superior to all other
titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost
is fully paid. At any time prior to collection, as provided in this section,
the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owed and
interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk shall forward
to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment, directing discharge of the
lien.
   11.   If the City Council causes property within the municipal limits to be
cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the
procedures provided for in this section, any subsequent accumulations of trash
or excessive weed or grass growth on the property occurring within a 12-month
period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without
further prior notice to the property owner. At the time of each summary
abatement, the municipality shall notify the property owner of the abatement
and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may
request a hearing within ten days after the date of mailing the notice. The
notice and hearing shall be as provided for in this section. Unless otherwise
determined at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be determined and
collected as provided for in this section; provided, however, that, this
section shall not apply if the records of the County Clerk show that the
property was transferred after notice was given pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-4-2013)
§§ 12-24 THROUGH 12-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: PENALTY
§ 12-40 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited, declared to be unlawful thereby or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure to
be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, who violates any legal order or
regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any nuisance as
defined in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 13: OFFENSES
Section
Article 1: Offenses in General
   
13-1   Offenses defined
   
13-2   Attempts to commit an offense
   
13-3   Effect of intoxication
   
13-4   Aiding in an offense
   
13-5   Title 21 of Oklahoma Statutes adopted by reference
   
13-6 through 13-9 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Offenses Against Public Decency, Morality and Policy
   
13-10   Gambling prohibited
   
13-11   False or bogus checks
   
13-12   Harmful deception
   
13-13   Obstruction and trespassing
   
13-14   Offenses relating to controlled dangerous substances
   
13-15   Immoral conduct, shows or exhibitions; nudity
   
13-16   Prostitution; illicit or sexual relations
   
13-17   Certain conduct prohibited on or near school grounds
   
13-18   Alcoholic or intoxicating beverages
   
13-19   Non-intoxicating beverages
   
13-20   Contributing to delinquency of minors
   
13-21   Cigarettes to persons under 21 years of age
   
13-22   Curfew for minors
   
13-23 through 13-39 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Offenses Against the Peace
   
13-40   Unlawful carry and transportation of weapons; discharging firearms
   
13-41   Demonstrations; unlawful assembly; disturbing lawful assemblies;
disturbing the peace
   
13-42   Unnecessary noise
   
13-43 through 13-59 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Offenses Against Persons
   
13-60   Assault and battery
   
13-61 through 13-69 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Offenses Against Property
   
13-70   Petit larceny
   
13-71   Receiving stolen property
   
13-72   Damaging or destroying property
   
13-73   Unlawful entry; unlawful intrusion; private property
   
13-74   Unlawful posting of advertising matter
   
13-75   Damaging utility poles
   
13-76   Unlawful throwing or shooting of objects
   
13-77   Littering
   
13-78   Dumpster
   
13-79   Shoplifting
   
13-80   Recycling
   
13-81 through 13-99 Reserved for future use
Article 6: Offenses Against Public Authority
   
13-100   Resisting arrest
   
13-101   Impersonating municipal officer or employee
   
13-102   False representation to municipal officials
   
13-103   Escape of prisoners
   
13-104   Assisting prisoners to escape
   
13-105   Removal of barricades
   
13-106   Flight from a police officer
   
13-107   Interference with fire alarm systems
   
13-108   False fire alarm
   
13-109 through 13-129 Reserved for future use
Article 7: Penalty
   
13-130   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: OFFENSES IN GENERAL
§ 13-1 OFFENSES DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFFENSE. The doing of any act or thing which, by this chapter or any
ordinance of the city is prohibited, forbidden or declared to be unlawful, or
the failure or refusal to do any act or perform any duty which, by any
provision of this chapter or by any ordinance of the city is commanded or
required to be done.
§ 13-2 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the code of
ordinances of the city and in such attempt does any act toward the commission
of such offense, but fails, is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration
thereof, shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished in the manner
prescribed for the offense itself.
§ 13-3 EFFECT OF INTOXICATION.
   No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
whether from alcoholic beverages or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by
reason of said person being in such condition.
§ 13-4 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such, shall be guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
§ 13-5 TITLE 21 OF OKLAHOMA STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Provisions of O.S. Title 21, as amended, which are applicable to the city
are hereby adopted and incorporated in this code of ordinances, as if set out
at length herein.
§§ 13-6 THROUGH 13-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY AND POLICY
§ 13-10 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation (or agent or employee thereof) shall play,
open or cause to be opened, operate, carry on or conduct any game of roulette,
craps or any percentage game played with dice, for money, checks, chips, credit
or any other things of value; or shall set up, operate or permit to be
operated, any slot machine or other device whatsoever where money, checks,
chips, credit or any other things of value are played, when the act of playing
the same might result in a gain or loss to the party playing; or shall gamble
knowingly in any other similar manner; or knowingly shall permit premises,
houses, lots or other property controlled by said entities, to be used in
connection with or for, any act declared unlawful in this chapter.
§ 13-11 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat or defraud,
to obtain or attempt to obtain, from any person, firm or corporation, any
money, property or valuable thing, of the value of $50 or less, by means of any
false or bogus check or by any other written, printed or engraved instrument or
spurious coin. The term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders
given for money or property which are not honored on account of insufficient
funds of the maker to pay the same, as against the maker or drawer thereof.
   2.   The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit with,
such bank or other depository; provided, that, such maker or drawer shall not
have paid the drawee the amount due thereof, together with the protest fees,
within five days from the date the same is presented for payment; provided,
further, that, said check or order is presented for payment within 30 days
after the same is delivered and accepted.
§ 13-12 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise), when such deception results in,
or contributes to, the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or a
third party, or results in, or contributes to, the benefit of the deceiver.
§ 13-13 OBSTRUCTION AND TRESPASSING.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful reason, between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 5:00 a.m., to sleep upon any street or in any
other public place, or on any property of another person without the expressed
or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct access to or trespass
in or about any public building, in or about the station or depot of a public
transportation carrier, or on or about the premises of a public or private
school.
   3.   No person shall be or remain in the immediate vicinity where a person
or persons are gambling by the use of any means or device.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or remain, either alone or
in consort with others, in a public place or building, in such a manner as to:
      a.   Obstruct any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other public
place or building by hindering, impeding or tending to hinder or impede the
free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians; or
      b.   Commit in or upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other
public place or building, any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or any business
lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing or fronting on any such public
street, highway, sidewalk or any other public place or building, all of which
prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein,
thereon and thereto.
§ 13-14 OFFENSES RELATING TO CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of any narcotic
or other controlled dangerous substance, to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, place of business or other public place within the city; or for any
person to use any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance upon or in
any street, alley, place of business or other public place within said city; or
for any person to use any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance in
any place within said city, except as legally-prescribed by a physician
licensed to practice in the state; or for any person to loiter about a place
where any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance is sold or furnished
illegally; or for any person to sell or furnish illegally to another person any
narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance.
   2.   No person shall obtain, or attempt to obtain, narcotic drugs, narcotic
drug preparations, barbiturates, amphetamines or stimulants:
      a.   By fraud, deceit, misrepresentation or subterfuge;
      b.   By forgery or alteration of a prescription or of any written order;
or
      c.   By the use of a false name or the giving of a false address.
   3.   No person shall manufacture, possess, have under his or her control,
sell, prescribe, administer, dispense or compound any LSD, narcotic drug
preparations, barbiturates, amphetamine, stimulants or marijuana unless
licensed or permitted to do so under the statutes of the state or the United
States.
   4.   No person shall use LSD, narcotic drugs, narcotic drug preparations,
barbiturates, amphetamines, stimulants or marijuana, except when used pursuant
to the direction of a licensed physician or dentist for medicinal purposes.
   5.   No person shall be in possession of needles, spoons, pipes or other
items associated with or used for illegal administration of drugs.
§ 13-15 IMMORAL CONDUCT, SHOWS OR EXHIBITIONS; NUDITY.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to conduct themselves in
a lewd or immoral manner, or make any insulting or licentious advance or
salutation to any person, in any public place within the city.
   2.   It shall be unlawful to show obscene or immoral motion pictures or
present any kind of a show or exhibition within the city which is obscene or
immoral.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place
within the city in a state of total nudity, or for any person or persons to
make an indecent public exposure of themselves.
   4.   It shall be unlawful to publicly display pornographic magazines or
books for sale in any store within the corporate limits of the city.
   5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any
publicly-exposed place within the corporate limits of the city.
§ 13-16 PROSTITUTION; ILLICIT OR SEXUAL RELATIONS.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS. Sexual relations with any person other than
one’s lawful husband or wife.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, submit or give himself or
herself to a lewd or immoral use, such as illicit sexual relations, or to
engage in any lewd or immoral act for money or any other thing of value.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in illicit sexual
relations or any other immoral vocation, or to consort with a prostitute or
other person of immoral vocation, or to consort with another for an immoral
purpose, in any public place within the city.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent
or employee thereof, to keep, or assist in keeping, a house of prostitution or
a house or place within the city where persons meet or assemble for illicit
sexual relations or for any other lewd or immoral purpose.
   5.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to act as a procurer
for any house or place of prostitution or for any prostitute or other person
engaged in an immoral vocation, or to procure, assist in procuring or attempt
to procure, any person for another for illicit sexual relations or any other
immoral purpose.
§ 13-17 CERTAIN CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   No person shall engage in any conduct or commit any of the acts enumerated
herein, around or on the grounds of, any school in the city or in any street,
alley or public area adjacent to a school:
   1.   Loitering by any person not having lawful business in connection with
the school, an employee thereof or student therein;
   2.   Any conduct that disturbs the orderly conduct of the school;
   3.   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   4.   Lewd or wanton conduct; or
   5.   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school or in any
street or alley adjacent thereto, in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school.
§ 13-18 ALCOHOLIC OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
misrepresent said person’s age through false documentation, for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell alcoholic beverages to said person.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to have in
their possession any alcoholic beverages, while such person is upon any street,
alley, road or highway, or in any public place within the city.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to open a retail container or
consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
   4.   No person drunk or in a state of intoxication shall appear, or be upon
or in, any street, alley, place of business or other public place, nor shall
any person drink any alcoholic beverage upon or in any street, alley, place of
business or other public place within the city.
   5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any vehicle upon
any street, alley or other public way within the city any alcoholic beverage,
except in the original container which shall not have been opened and the seal
of which shall not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the
trunk or any closed compartment or other container out of public view and out
of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
   6.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to buy,
receive, possess, sell, barter, give away, manufacture or use any alcoholic
beverages in violation of the State Constitution and laws or the code of
ordinances of the city. (See
Chapter 2 of this code of ordinances.)
§ 13-19 NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES. Any beverages which include low-point alcohol
levels containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and less than 3.2% alcohol
by weight.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase,
receive or procure any non-intoxicating beverage.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to work in a
place where non- intoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises, except an eating place where the service of such beverages is
incidental to the main business of serving food.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to be
in possession of, or to drink, any non-intoxicating beverage while such person
is upon any public street, alley, or other public highway, or in any public
building or other public place, within the city; provided, that, this shall not
prohibit a person who is of age from drinking such a beverage in a place
licensed to sell it for consumption on the premises.
   5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any moving vehicle,
upon any public highway, street, alley or roadway within the corporate limits
of the city or in or upon any property owned by said city outside of its
corporate limits, any non-intoxicating beverage, except in the original
container which shall not have been opened and from which the original cap or
seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the rear
trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a
station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion. (See
Chapter 2 of this code of ordinances.)
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 1-9-2024)
§ 13-20 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINORS.
   1.   A MINOR or CHILD shall include male or female persons who shall not
have arrived at the age of 18 years at the time of the commission of the
offense.
   2.   A DELINQUENT CHILD shall include a minor who shall have been, or is,
violating any penal statute of this state or who commits any offense listed in
this code of ordinances.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully cause,
aid, abet or encourage a minor to be, to remain or to become a delinquent
child, as defined herein.
§ 13-21 CIGARETTES TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to sell, barter, give
away or otherwise furnish cigarettes or tobacco in any form to persons under 21
years of age, or to permit such persons under 21 years of age to frequent any
premises owned, held or managed by said person, for the purpose of indulging in
the use of cigarettes or tobacco in any form.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 13-22 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   This section shall be known and cited as the “Curfew Ordinance”.
   1.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older.
      CURFEW HOURS. The hours as specified in subsection 2. below.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of minor:
         (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (2)   As a legal guardian; or
         (3)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a
court.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park or playground.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon any public
place, including the congregating of groups or of interacting minors totaling
four or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using the streets
for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home.
      STREET. A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the
public a matter of right for purposes of the vehicular travel or in the case of
sidewalk for pedestrian travel, the term STREET includes the right-of-way,
including but not limited to traffic lanes, the curb, the sidewalks whether
paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds found within the right-
of-way of a street.
      TIME OF NIGHT. Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether
Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, generally observed at
that hour by the public.
   2.   Curfew for minors. It shall be unlawful for any minor to be or remain,
in or upon a public place within the city at night during the period beginning
at 11:00 p.m. and ending at 6:00 a.m. the following day for Sunday through
Thursday and beginning at midnight and ending at 6:00 a.m. the following day
for Friday and Saturday.
   3.   Exception. In the following exception cases, a minor in a city public
place during the curfew hours shall not be considered in violation of
subsection 2. above:
      a.   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
      b.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to
take said parent’s place in accompanying said minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area, provided that the minor has a written
consent in the minor’s possession stating the name of the adult who has charge
of said minor, and the names, address and telephone numbers of such minor and a
parent;
      c.   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and
the right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fide exercise by
possession of a written consent, signed by such minor and countersigned by a
parent of such minor and with their home address and telephone number,
specifying when, where and in what manner said minor will be on a public place
during curfew hours in the exercise of a First Amendment right specified in
such written consent;
      d.   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has in said
minor’s possession a written consent signed by the minor, countersigned by a
parent of such minor evidencing their home address and telephone number, and
establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets or public
place at a designated time for a described purpose including points of origin
and destination;
      e.   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor where said neighbor
does not object to the presence of such minor on such sidewalk;
      f.   When returning home, by a direct route from and within 30 minutes of
termination of a school activity, or an activity of a religious or voluntary
association, provided the minor has a written consent to the minor’s
possession, countersigned by the parent indicating the home address, a
telephone number, the purpose for the event, when, where and in what manner
said minor will be on the streets or public place at night;
      g.   When the minor is going to or returning from his or her place of
employment, provided said minor shows sufficient proof of such employment; and
      h.   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle,
contemplating normal travel of such vehicle, provided the minor has a written
consent in the minor’s possession, countersigned by the parent indicating the
home address and telephone number, the purpose of such travel, when, where and
in what manner said minor will be on the streets or public place during curfew
hours. This clearly exempts bona fide interstate movement through the city,
particularly on normal routes.
   4.   Parental responsibility.
      a.   Generally. It shall be unlawful for a parent of a minor to knowingly
permit or by inefficient control to allow such minor to be or remain upon any
public place under circumstances not constituting an exemption during curfew
hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that parent’s
legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or careless
parents up to a reasonable community standard of parental responsibility
through an objective test. It shall be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such minor.
      b.   Marie Detty Youth Services center fees. The city is hereby
authorized to send a letter to the parents of any juvenile arrested from the
city and sent to Marie Detty Youth Services Center in Lawton, Oklahoma,
assessing the costs billed to said city for services and fees by the Marie
Detty Youth Services Center, to said parents of said juvenile, requesting that
reimbursement and payment of said assessment be made to the city within 30 days
of the assessment/invoice date. The city’s assessment letter shall include a
copy of the Marie Detty Youth Services invoice paperwork and shall be signed by
the Mayor and Chief of Police.
   5.   Police procedures.
      a.   A police office of the city, upon finding or having attention called
to any person reasonable believe by such office to be a minor on a public place
during curfew hours shall make reasonable inquiry of such person to determine
if any of the exceptions in the section applies.
         (1)   If an exception applies, the police office shall make a
reasonable inquiry of such minor to verify the circumstances of the applicable
exception and obtain the name, address and telephone number of such minor and
the minor’s parents. Said minor shall immediately be released by the police
officer. The police officer shall make a written report of such incident to the
Chief of Police. The officer or a designee of the Chief of Police shall verify
the circumstances for the exception as reported by the minor to the police
officer. If the information proved by the minor proves to be false, the Chief
of Police shall cause to be personally delivered, or by certified mail, to a
parent a written notice of said violation with a warning that a subsequent
violation will result in full enforcement of this section, including
enforcement of parental responsibility and applicable penalties.
         (2)   If none of the exceptions apply, the police officer shall take
the minor to the police station or other place designated by the Chief of
Police and a parent shall immediately be notified to come for such minor. This
is intended to permanent ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, or
relevant facts and to centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty
for accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement, and
recording, thus making available experienced supervisory personnel, the best of
facilities and access to information and records. In the absence of convincing
evidence as to the age of a minor, a police officer shall, in the first
instance, use his or her best judgment in determining the minor’s age.
      b.   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide that the police officer may deliver to a parent
thereof a minor under appropriate circumstances.
      c.   In any event, such police officer shall, within 24 hours, file a
written report with Chief of Police, said report shall be treated for purposes
of juvenile records in accordance with state statutes. The written report shall
include, as minimum, the name, address and telephone number of the minor under
appropriate circumstances.
      d.   In any event, such police officer shall, within 24 hours, file a
written report with the Chief of Police, said report shall be treated for
purposes of juvenile records in accordance with state statutes. The written
report shall include, as a minimum, the name, address and telephone number of
the minor and parent, and a narrative summary of the events and circumstances
relating to the minor’s presence on a public place during curfew hours.
      e.   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, or the minor may temporarily be entrusted to a relative,
neighbor or other person who will, on behalf of apparent, assume the
responsibility of caring for the minor pending the availability or arrival of a
parent.
      f.   In the case of a first violation by the minor the Chief of Police
shall cause to be hand delivered or by certified mail to a parent a written
notice of said violation with a warning that any subsequent violation will
result in full enforcement of this section, including enforcement of parental
responsibility and of applicable penalties.
   6.   Penalty.
      a.   If, after the warning notice pursuant to subsection 5.f. above of a
first violation by a minor, a minor further violates subsection 5. above, such
offense shall constitute an offense by the minor’s parent or parents. The
penalty upon a plea of guilty, nolo contendere, or finding of guilty shall be a
fine not to exceed $200.
      b.   Any minor who violates subsection 5. above more than one time shall
be reported to the juvenile authorities for treatment, supervision and
rehabilitation of such minor.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 1-13-2014)
§§ 13-23 THROUGH 13-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
§ 13-40 UNLAWFUL CARRY AND TRANSPORTATION OF WEAPONS; DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, (as outlined in 21 O.S. §
1272) it shall be unlawful for any person to carry upon or about his or her
person, or in a purse or other container belonging to the person, any pistol,
revolver, shotgun or rifle whether loaded or unloaded or any blackjack, loaded
cane, hand chain, metal knuckles, or any other offensive weapon, whether such
weapon be concealed or unconcealed, except this section shall not prohibit:
      a.   The proper use of guns and knives for self-defense, hunting,
fishing, educational or recreational purposes;
      b.   The carrying or use of weapons in a manner otherwise permitted by
statute or authorized by the Oklahoma Self-Defense Act;
      c.   The carrying, possession and use of any weapon by a peace officer or
other person authorized by law to carry a weapon in the performance of official
duties and in compliance with the rules of the employing agency;
      d.   The carrying or use of weapons in a courthouse by a district judge,
associate district judge or special district judge within this state, who is in
possession of a valid handgun license issued pursuant to the provisions of the
Oklahoma Self-Defense Act and whose name appears on a list maintained by the
Administrative Director of the Courts;
      e.   The carrying and use of firearms and other weapons provided in this
subsection when used for the purpose of living history reenactment. For
purposes of this paragraph, "living history reenactment" means depiction of
historical characters, scenes, historical life or events for entertainment,
education, or historical documentation through the wearing or use of period,
historical, antique, or vintage clothing, accessories, firearms, weapons, and
other implements of the historical period; or
      f.   The transporting by vehicle on a public roadway or the carrying of a
firearm, concealed or unconcealed, loaded or unloaded, by a person who is 21
years of age or older or by a person who is 18 years of age but not yet 21
years of age and the person is a member or veteran of the United States Armed
Forces, Reserves or National Guard or was discharged under honorable conditions
from the United States Armed Forces, Reserves or National Guard, and the person
is otherwise not disqualified from the possession or purchase of a firearm
under state or federal law and is not carrying the firearm in furtherance of a
crime.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person transporting a firearm in or on a
vehicle to fail or refuse to identify that the person is in actual possession
of a firearm when demanded by a law enforcement officer of this state during
any arrest, detainment, or routine traffic stop. Any person who violates the
provisions of this subsection may be issued a citation for an amount not to
exceed $100.
   3.   Any person, 18 to 20 years of age, who is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing or purchasing a firearm and is not carrying or transporting
a firearm in the furtherance of a crime may transport in or on a vehicle, open
or concealed, an unloaded firearm at any time.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the
corporate limits of the city, except when doing so in the line of duty, when
lawfully doing so in defense of oneself or of another person or property, when
otherwise authorized by state law or ordinance, when doing so for the
preservation of the peace, health or safety of residents or the abatement of
nuisances, or when engaged in authorized hunting or other related activities;
it shall also be unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun within the city
in such a manner as to harm or damage persons or property.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-11-2023)
§ 13-41 DEMONSTRATIONS; UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY; DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES;
DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together, in
any park or public right-of-way, to act in concert to do any lawful act or
demonstration, for or against any purpose, without first obtaining a permit to
demonstrate.
      a.   Request for a permit to demonstrate or assemble shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk 15 days prior to the day of demonstration.
      b.   Written request shall state the purpose, the date, time and duration
the event shall take place. The name and address of the organization sponsoring
the event and name and telephone of the person making the request for a permit.
      c.   There shall be a $75 application fee submitted with the written
request for a permit. The fee may be reimbursed within five working days after
the date of the demonstration provided the city does not incur any costs
resulting from the event. Incurred costs such as dispatching police or clean up
of trash and debris will be deducted.
   2.   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TUMULTUOUS CONDUCT. Conduct that results in or is likely to result in
serious bodily injury to a person or substantial damage to property.
      UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY. An assembly of five or more persons whose common
object is to commit an unlawful act, or a lawful act by unlawful means. Prior
concert is not necessary to form an unlawful assembly.
   3.   No person shall recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally:
      a.   Engage in fighting or in tumultuous conduct;
      b.   Make unreasonable noise and continue to do so after being asked to
stop;
      c.   Disrupt a lawful assembly of persons;
      d.   Obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
      e.   Participate in unlawful assembly.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 4-9-2011)
§ 13-42 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   1.   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any
excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others, within the limits of the city.
   2.   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but shall not be deemed to
be exclusive:
      a.   The using, operating or permitting to be played used or operated of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or
device for the producing or the reproducing of sound in such a manner as to
disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any
time louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person or
persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device
is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such
set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section;
      b.   The keeping of any animal, fowl or pet that causes frequent or long-
continued noise that disturbs the comfort or repose of any person or persons in
the vicinity; and
      c.   The operation of a motor vehicle which produces, creates, generates,
amplifies, continues or causes to be produced, created, generated or amplified
any excessive noise or sound, when such vehicle is being driven or is parked on
public property, public ways or public rights-of-way. For the purpose of this
subsection 2.c., the term EXCESSIVE NOISE shall mean noise or sound which
unduly disturbs injures or endangers the comfort, repose, peace, safety or
health of any person. It shall be prima facie evidence of violation of this
section if such excessive noise is plainly audible to any person 50 feet or
more from the motor vehicle which produces, creates, generates, amplifies,
continues or causes to be produced, created, generated or amplified the
excessive noise or sound. The term PLAINLY AUDIBLE means such person can hear
the content of the sound produced by the noise making device within the subject
motor vehicle or hear the operation of the motor vehicle itself because of lack
of mufflers, or because of noise devices installed on the motor.
§§ 13-43 THROUGH 13-59 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
§ 13-60 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   1. An assault is any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   2.   A battery is any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
   3.   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery
within the city.
   4.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, without justifiable
or excusable cause, to knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and
battery upon the person of a police officer or officer of the law, while said
person is performing assigned duties.
§§ 13-61 THROUGH 13-69 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 13-70 PETIT LARCENY.
   1.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not to exceed
$500, accompanied by fraud or stealth, or with intent to deprive another
thereof, when the property is not taken from the person of another.
   2.   Petit larceny is unlawful and any person who commits petty larceny
shall be guilty of an offense.
§ 13-71 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, receive, transport or bring into
the city any property which said person knows has been stolen.
§ 13-72 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or
molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real
or personal, public or private, belonging to another, including automobiles or
other vehicles, to use any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the
owner or other person entitled to its use, or to interfere wrongfully with the
use of any such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
§ 13-73 UNLAWFUL ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTRUSION; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, without proper
permission, upon the property of another or into an area or structure on such
property (whether such property, area or structure is public or private),
particularly when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or otherwise, or
when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such entrance is
in the line of duty, with the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person
in charge, or otherwise by authority of state law or ordinance.
   2.   Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land
within the city without authority from the owner thereof, or who erects or
occupies thereon any hut or other structure without such authority, and every
person who places, erects or occupies within the bounds of any street, alley or
avenue of the city, any structure whatever, shall be guilty of an offense.
   3.   It shall be unlawful to remain on private property at any time other
than during posted hours of business operation, after having been directed to
vacate such premises by a police officer or by the owner or other person in
lawful possession of the premises or by the agent, servant or employee of the
owner. The provisions of this subsection 3. shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence on the premises is authorized by the owner
or person in lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the provisions of
this subsection 3. apply unless the hours of the business operation are posted
upon such premises. It shall also be unlawful to return to said private
property before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next
business day, after having been directed to vacate such premises under the
terms of this subsection 3.
§ 13-74 UNLAWFUL POSTING OF ADVERTISING MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, post, paint, mark, write or
print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, device or
inscription upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge,
automobile, other vehicle or other property of another, without the consent of
the owner or person in charge thereof.
§ 13-75 DAMAGING UTILITY POLES.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark, write, print, paint up, or
otherwise make any signs or marks, by indentation or otherwise, or by posting
signs or posters, upon any telephone, television, electric or power pole,
either wood, concrete, steel or of any other substance, within the corporate
limits of the city. The word POLE shall be construed to mean any pole
supporting telephone, television, electric or power wires or braces, and any
device used to support or brace such a pole.
   2.   This section shall not apply to the owners of such poles who may make
such necessary or authorized marks or signs thereon.
§ 13-76 UNLAWFUL THROWING OR SHOOTING OF OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or
other object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where said
person is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to
throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle,
structure, electric light or other property of another, whether public or
private, except in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of
another person or of property.
§ 13-77 LITTERING.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Any garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead
animals, abandoned automobile, paper, wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard,
tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, grass, bedding or crockery and similar
materials commonly referred to as rubbish or trash.
   2.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any open or vacant
property within the city, irrespective of the ownership of such property.
   3.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place within the city, except in public receptacles,
authorized private receptacles or in the municipal sanitary landfill.
   4.   No person shall sweep into, or deposit in, any gutter, street or other
public place within the city, the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway; persons owning or
occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of
litter.
   5.   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place; nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within said city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto, or deposit in, any
street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign manner of any kind, in excessive or damaging amounts.
   6.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city.
   7.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; however, it shall not be unlawful, in any
public place, for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it.
   8.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
vacant.
   9.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested not to do so or
if signs are posted bearing the words “no trespassing”, “no peddlers or
agents”, “no advertisements” or similar notice, indicating that the occupants
do not desire to have their privacy disturbed.
   10.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by transmitting them directly to the owner, occupant or persons present upon
such private premises; in cases of inhabited private premises which are not
posted, handbills must be distributed to prevent them from blowing on sidewalks
or other public places.
   11.   The provisions of subsection 10. above shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States or to newspapers, except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property so as to prevent being carried
or deposited upon any street, sidewalk or public place, or on other private
property.
   12.   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the
city any litter, handbill or any other object.
§ 13-78 DUMPSTER.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump trash into a dumpster
located at a business or on private property within the city limits unless
permission is granted by the owner of the business or private property to do
so.
   2.   Any person violating this section shall be fined up to $200 for each
separate violation.
§ 13-79 SHOPLIFTING.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to remove any
merchandise from a commercial business without paying for said merchandise and
without the consent of the owners of said business.
   2.   Any police officer or licensed security guard may arrest, without
warrant, any person if there is probable cause for believing said person has
committed larceny of merchandise held for sale in retail or wholesale
establishments, when such arrest is made in a reasonable manner.
   3.   Any merchant, an agent or employee, who has reasonable grounds or
probable cause to believe that a person has committed or is committing a
wrongful taking of merchandise or money for mercantile establishment, may
detain such person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time for
all or any of the following purposes:
      a.   Conducting an investigation, including reasonable interrogation of
the detained person, as to whether there has been a wrongful taking of such
merchandise or money;
      b.   Informing the police or other law enforcement officials of the facts
relevant to such detention;
      c.   Performing a reasonable search of the detained person and said
person’s belongings when it appears that the merchandise or money may otherwise
be lost; and
      d.   Recovering the merchandise or money believed to have been taken
wrongfully; any such reasonable detention shall not constitute an unlawful
arrest or detention, nor shall it render the merchant, an agent or employee
criminally or civilly liable to the person so detained.
   4.   Any person concealing unpurchased merchandise of any mercantile
establishment, either on the premises or outside the premises of such
establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed such merchandise with the
intention of committing a wrongful taking of such merchandise within the
meaning of this section, and such concealment or the finding of such
unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or among the belongings of
such person shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable grounds and probable
cause for the detention in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of
time, of such person by a merchant, an agent or employee, and any such
reasonable detention shall not be deemed to be unlawful, nor render such
merchant, his or her agent or employee criminally or civilly liable.
§ 13-80 RECYCLING.
   It shall be unlawful to place, deposit or leave any material, at the
recycling collection location, which is not recyclable. Material(s) that are
accepted for recycling are identified at the recycling container.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 5-14-2012)
§§ 13-81 THROUGH 13-99 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 6: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
§ 13-100 RESISTING ARREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to resist, oppose
or obstruct the Chief of Police, any police officer, the Municipal Judge or
other municipal officers or employees in the discharge of their official
duties; or, by threats or otherwise, to intimidate, or attempt to intimidate,
any such officers or employees from the discharge of their official duties; or
to assault, beat, revile, abuse, be disrespectful to or use abusive or indecent
language toward or about, any such officers or employees, while such officers
or employees are in the discharge of their official duties.
§ 13-101 IMPERSONATING MUNICIPAL OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate any municipal police
officer or employee, or exercise, or attempt to exercise, any of the duties,
functions or powers of any municipal officer or employee, without being duly
authorized to do so.
§ 13-102 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make any material
misrepresentation to any municipal officer, employee or agency in any official
application to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or
agency, or to commit perjury before any tribunal or office of the city.
§ 13-103 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person confined in the municipal jail or other
place of confinement, working upon the streets or other public places pursuant
to any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by authority of the city to
escape, or attempt to escape, from any such municipal jail, prison or custody.
§ 13-104 ASSISTING PRISONERS TO ESCAPE.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at
liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner from any
officer or employee of the city having legal custody of such prisoner, or from
the municipal jail or other place of confinement, or to assist such prisoner in
any manner to escape from such prison or custody, or to give such prisoner any
weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to assist in
said escape, or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverages, narcotics or
other controlled dangerous substances.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate with, or attempt to
communicate with, any prisoner confined in the municipal jail, without
authority to do so from the Chief of Police or the officer-in-charge.
§ 13-105 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   No person, unless authorized by proper authority, shall remove any barricade
or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off any
pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
§ 13-106 FLIGHT FROM A POLICE OFFICER.
   1.   Flight from an officer shall be unlawful and an offense.
   2.   A person commits the offense of flight from a municipal police officer,
if:
      a.   Said person is the operator of a vehicle and refuses to stop said
vehicle as soon as is safely possible, when signaled to do so by a law
enforcement officer;
      b.   Upon stopping said vehicle at the signal of a law enforcement
officer, abandons said vehicle and leaves, or attempts to leave, the immediate
area without the permission of the law enforcement officer;
      c.   Said person is a passenger in a vehicle and abandons the vehicle
after a law enforcement officer has signaled the vehicle to stop;
      d.   After the vehicle has stopped, leaves the immediate area without the
permission of the law enforcement officer;
      e.   Said person is a pedestrian and leaves, or attempts to leave, the
immediate area after being directed by a law enforcement officer to stop or to
remain in said area for a reasonable length of time.
§ 13-107 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   No person shall cut or sever, or cause to be cut or severed, or interfere
with in any manner, any wire of any fire alarm system in the city; or remove or
change the same; or cut, injure, change, alter or remove any pole, cross-arm,
bracket or other support upon which said wires rest or in which said wires are
enclosed; or disconnect said wires or any of them from the gongs, alarm boxes
or instruments connected with said fire alarm system; or cause, in any manner,
the working of the same to become obstructed or interfered with without being
first duly authorized to do so by the Chief of the Fire Department; nor shall
any person deface or in any manner injure any of the fire alarm boxes or any
instruments or appliances connected with or belonging to said fire alarm
system; or tamper with said fire alarm or obstruct in any manner whatever, the
boxes, keys or glass upon any of said boxes; or make or cause to be made,
without authority from the Chief of the Fire Department, keys to any alarm box
or boxes; or to use, or cause to be used, any such key so made; nor shall any
person place or fasten over or upon any fire alarm box a handbill, notice or
sign of any kind, except the signs places upon the same at the direction of the
Chief of the Fire Department and pertaining to the firebox; or cause to be
hitched any horse or animal to any pole on which is situated a fire alarm box.
§ 13-108 FALSE FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall turn in a false fire alarm, or in any manner shall deceive
or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer or employee with
reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or knowingly shall cause the Fire
Department or its officers or employees to make a useless run.
§§ 13-109 THROUGH 13-129 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 7: PENALTY
§ 13-130 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day’s continuation of any such
violation shall be a separate offense.
CHAPTER 14: OIL AND GAS DRILLING
Section
Article 1: General Provisions
   
14-1   Definitions
   
14-2   Municipal drilling permit required; application process
   
14-3   Permit fees; insurance
   
14-4   Existing wells
   
14-5   Zoning
   
14-6   Annual renewal permits
   
14-7 through 14-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Regulatory Provisions
   
14-20   Regulations
   
14-21 through 14-49 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Penalty
   
14-50   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 14-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIRCULATING MUD PIT. The working pit from which drilling muds are
continuously recirculated during the drilling process into and from the
drilling hole, for the purpose of flushing cuttings from the drill bit, and as
a lubricant to reduce torque, drag, heat, friction and differential sticking
during the drilling process.
   DISPOSAL WELL. Any well drilled or actually used for injection of salt water
or other substances into the earth at a point other or different than the point
of extraction or production thereof from the earth.
   MUD. The drilling fluid used and recirculated through the drilling hole as a
lubricant to reduce torque, drag, heat, friction and differential sticking and
to flush drill bit cuttings from the hold during the drilling process.
   MUD PROGRAM. The planned usage of drilling fluid lubricants, specifying with
particularity the type, name and physical and chemical composition and
characteristics of all ingredients thereof, together with such laboratory and
other technical data as may be necessary or required by the Municipal Building
Inspector to evaluate the same as pollutive, deleterious or otherwise.
   OIL OR GAS WELL. Includes any well drilled, operated or maintained for the
production of oil gas, casinghead gas or any of them or their by-products or
derivatives.
   RESERVE PIT. Any excavation, pit or receptacle designed or actually used to
receive, store or hold rocks, drill bit cuttings, shale, sand, fresh water or
drilling mud which contains no salt water, oil, oil derivations, caustics,
acids or other deleterious substances harmful to soil, vegetation or injurious
to animal or human life.
   SLUSH PIT. Any excavation, pit or receptacle designed or actually used to
receive, store or hold waste oil, oil derivatives, sand, salt water or other
waste products or deleterious substances produced or used in the drilling,
swabbing, cleaning or re-working of any oil, gas or disposal well.
§ 14-2 MUNICIPAL DRILLING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION PROCESS.
   1.   Subsequent to the effective date of this code of ordinances, it shall
be unlawful and an offense for any person or corporation to drill, maintain or
operate an oil, gas or disposal well within the corporate limits of the city,
without first having procured a municipal drilling permit to do so, as
hereinafter provided, and without being in compliance with all applicable
ordinances of the city.
   2.   Every person hereafter desiring to drill, maintain or operate an oil,
gas or disposal well in the city shall file application therefor, in writing,
in the form required by the City Clerk, signed by the applicant or an agent
authorized to sign the same.
   3.   Such application shall specify the Quarter Section, Township, Range and
the location within the Quarter Section thereof so as to identify said well
location within a particular ten-acre tract.
   4.   All equipment to be utilized in the drilling, operation or maintenance
of said well shall be specified in said application with particularity and the
mud program, as that term is defined in §14-1, shall be specified and attached
in writing thereto, for approval by the City Clerk.
§ 14-3 PERMIT FEES; INSURANCE.
   1.   At the time of filing such application required in
§ 14-2, such applicant shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $650 to defray
the expenses of inspecting the specified location and drilling operations and,
if completed as a producing well, in payment of the annual fee for the initial
year of production and operation of said well.
   2.   Such applicant shall also, at said time, file with the City Clerk a
copy of a policy of insurance issued by some corporate insurer licensed to do
business within the state, evidencing current insurance of the owner, driller,
agents and employees, conditioned for the payment of all damages due to injury
to persons or damage to property resulting from the drilling, operation or
maintenance of the proposed well or any structure, machinery, equipment,
pipelines or appurtenances used in connection therewith, in an amount not less
than $250,000.
   3.   Such policy shall contain no exclusion from coverage of contamination
of pollution of surface or subterranean streams, watercourses, lakes or public
or private water supplies.
§ 14-4 EXISTING WELLS.
   Owners or operators of oil, gas or disposal wells heretofore drilled and
completed within the city shall not be required to procure the initial
municipal drilling permit hereinabove provided; however, it shall be incumbent
upon such owners and operators to furnish evidence of liability insurance
coverage and post the bond for the restoration of the land and plugging of the
well upon its abandonment in the form and amount above required for issuance of
a municipal drilling permit at the time of application for the annual renewal
permit as hereinafter provided, or within 60 days after the effective date
hereof, whichever shall first occur, as a condition of continuing the operation
and maintenance of any well heretofore drilled and prior to commencing any
swabbing, cleaning or reworking operations of all oil, gas and disposal wells
heretofore or hereinafter drilled within the city. All existing wells shall
also comply with all of the following provisions of this chapter.
§ 14-5 ZONING.
   Oil, gas or disposal wells shall be located only in those zoning districts
which permit such use as provided in the adopted zoning ordinance of the city.
§ 14-6 ANNUAL RENEWAL PERMITS.
   Annual renewal permits for the operation, maintenance, cleaning, swabbing
and reworking of all completed and operating oil, gas and disposal wells, now
existing or hereafter drilled, are hereby required, and shall be issued upon
payment of $100 per year and upon the filing of copies of liability insurance
policies and the restoration and plugging bond in the form and amount required
for the issuance of an initial drilling permit and upon proof of renewal of the
restoration and plugging bond for the ensuing year. Such annual fee shall be
paid, proof of insurance coverage filed and renewal of said restoration and
plugging bond made on the anniversary date of the initial drilling permit, or
if no such permit was required or obtained, within 60 days after the effective
date hereof.
§§ 14-7 THROUGH 14-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: REGULATORY PROVISIONS
§ 14-20 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person or corporation to do or
permit any of the following, and the same are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   1.   Earthen slush pits shall not be constructed, maintained or used by any
person or corporation at any location within the city. All waste oil, salt
water, liquid with oil content, gasoline or other waste produced in connection
with the drilling, testing, cleaning, swabbing, re-working or operating of any
oil, gas or disposal well shall be captured and retained in steel tanks or
vessels and transported from the premises to a disposal facility. In no event
shall any of such substances be permitted to escape from the premises owned,
leased or controlled by the persons carrying on such operations by seepage,
overflow or otherwise, nor flow across the surface of the ground, or upon any
public way, into any storm or sanitary sewer, drainage ditch, upon any gutter
or paving or into any gully, stream or tributary within the city. Plastic
liners may be required, at the discretion of a majority of the City Council.
   2.   Earthen reserve pits, as herein defined, which contain no salt water,
oil, oil derivatives, caustics, acids or other deleterious substances harmful
to soil, vegetation or injurious to animal or human life, shall be allowed to
be constructed or used in connection with the drilling, swabbing, cleaning out
or re-working of oil or gas wells within the city, and the contents thereof
need not be transported from the premises to a disposal facility, if the same
are leveled and the surface of the ground restored as nearly as possible to its
original condition within 90 days after completion of said drilling, swabbing,
cleanout or re-working operations.
   3.   An earthen retaining wall of adequate size for the terrain shall be
constructed on the low side of all well sites situated within the city on
sloping or unlevel ground. The top of the retaining wall shall be at least as
high as the top of the Christmas tree or other wellhead connections on any
completed well, or at least as high as the ground at the point where surface
casing is set in the well when drilling.
   4.   Storage tanks or other types of tanks containing flammable substances
used in connection with any oil, gas or disposal well within the city shall
have earthen embankments constructed around them of sufficient size and height
to be able to adequately contain one and one-half times the volume of such
tanks in the event of a rupture thereof at the floor of such tank. No drain
plugs, openings or siphons shall be placed in the walls or dikes which will
permit the escape of any liquids through the same. In no event shall any such
tank be located nearer than 100 feet to a dwelling or business structure,
street or highway within the city.
   5.   No steam, gasoline, natural gas, diesel or other internal combustion
engine of any kind shall be operated in conjunction with the drilling or
operation of an oil or gas well within 250 feet of any dwelling or business
structure within the city.
   6.   No oil, gas or disposal well shall be drilled, operated or maintained,
nor shall any operations in connection therewith be carried on or conducted,
within 250 feet of any church, school or hospital building within the city.
   7.   Premises upon which any oil, gas or disposal wells are drilled,
operated or maintained shall be kept free of all accumulations of rubbish,
litter, unused equipment or materials, excess rotary mud, salt water, waste oil
or oil by-products and other waste, insofar as the same may be reasonably done
in the conduct of operations covered by this chapter.
   8.   Approved equipment, standard devices and ordinary methods such as are
commonly known and used in the oil and gas drilling and producing industry for
the safety and protection of property from damage due to drilling and operating
activities, shall be used at all locations within the city. Failure on the part
of any owner, driller or operator to utilize such equipment, devices or methods
shall be the basis for injunction thereof by the city or any person affected
thereby, in addition to the penalties therefor otherwise provided therein.
   9.   At least 750 feet of surface casing shall be set in each well after
notifications of intention to do so have been given the State Corporation
Commission, whose representative shall be entitled to inspect the installation
thereof and direct the type and amount of cement to be used in cementing the
same in the hole.
   10.   All drilling wells shall be equipped with a mastergate, or its
equivalent, adequate blowout preventers, flow lines and valves commensurate
with the working pressures involved.
   11.   That part of the drilling rig adjacent to or facing any lake and
situated within one-half mile of the normal elevation thereof shall be covered
with canvas, sheet metal or other suitable material at all times during
drilling operations.
   12.   Production casing of a size with not less than a four and one-half
inch outside diameter, in good condition, shall be set no higher than the top
of the producing formation and cemented with a sufficient amount of cement to
obtain a maximum of 500 feet of annular fillup above the casing. All of such
production casing shall be tested by pressure methods for either drilling the
cement plug or perforating, if the cement is not drilled.
   13.   Upon completion of any flowing well, the wellhead equipment shall
have, on the tubing, at least one master-valve plus a flow valve, and a valve
on the casing annulus. All wells shall be equipped with flow tubing of a size
at least two inches inside diameter extending not less than 50 feet from the
top of the lowest producing formation.
   14.   All disposal wells shall be equipped with at least two inch inside
diameter tubing set on a packer and a pressure gauge shall be installed on the
casing annulus at all times.
§§ 14-21 THROUGH 14-49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: PENALTY
§ 14-50 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in a sum not to exceed the limits
established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day such violation is committed or
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable as
such. In addition, violation of any of the provisions hereof declared to be a
public nuisance shall be a basis for injunction at the suit of the city or at
the suit of any person, firm or corporation adversely affected thereby.
CHAPTER 15: PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Section
Article 1: Planning and Preservation Commissions
   
15-1   Municipal and Regional Planning Commissions created
   
15-2   Jurisdiction areas
   
15-3   Rules and regulations
   
15-4   Employees; expenditures
   
15-5   Project review procedures
   
15-6   Duties and powers
   
15-7 through 15-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Zoning
   
15-20   Municipality’s power to zone
   
15-21   Relationship of zoning to the adopted comprehensive plan
   
15-22   Planning Commission to be Zoning Commission
   
15-23   Zoning ordinance adopted by reference
   
15-24   Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
15-25 through 15-35 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Zoning Ordinance
   
15-36   General provision
   
15-37   Specific zoning district regulations
      A-1 Agricultural Residential
      R-1 Low Density Residential
      R-2 Single-Family Residential
      R-3 Mixed Residential
      P-1 Planned Redevelopment
      P-2 Planned Unit Development
      C-1 General Commercial
      C-3 Planned Commercial
      I-1 Industrial
   
15-38   Administration
   
15-39   Board of Adjustment
   
15-40 through 15-59 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Subdivision of Land
   
15-60   Subdivision review process
   
15-61   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference
   
15-62 through 15-70 Reserved for fixture use
Article 5: Subdivision Regulations
   I: General and Administrative Provisions
   
15-71   Citation and authority
   
15-72   Purposes
   
15-73   Jurisdiction
   
15-74   Statement of policy
   
15-75   Official recording
   
15-76   Application of regulations
   
15-77   Exceptions to regulations
   
15-78   Vacation of plats
   
15-79   Responsibility for administration
   
15-80   Amendment of regulations
   
15-81   Agenda
   
15-82   Filing fees
   
15-83   Variances
   
15-84   Interpretation
   
15-85   Conflicts with public and private provisions
   
15-86   Definitions
   
15-87   Separability
   
15-88   Conflicting ordinances repealed
   
15-89   Violations; penalty
   
15-90 through 15-99 Reserved for future use
   II: Plat Preparation and Review
   
15-100   General provisions
   
15-101   Preliminary plat
   
15-102   Improvement plans
   
15-103   Final plat
   
15-104 through 15-115 Reserved for future use
   III: Subdivision Design
   
15-116   General design principles and standards
   
15-117   Streets: general provisions
   
15-118   Streets: alignment
   
15-119   Streets: culs-de-sac and dead-end streets
   
15-120   Streets: intersections
   
15-121   Alleys
   
15-122   Pedestrianways
   
15-123   Easements: street and alley
   
15-124   Easements: utility
   
15-125   Easements: drainage
   
15-126   Lots
   
15-127   Blocks
   
15-128   Building lines
   
15-129   Public areas
   
15-130   Parks, open spaces and natural features
   
15-131   Nonresidential subdivisions
   
15-132   Planned development
   
15-133 through 15-140 Reserved for future use
   IV: Subdivision Improvements
   
15-141   Improvements required
   
15-142   Improvement and maintenance bonds
   
15-143   Plans required
   
15-144   Miscellaneous provisions
   
15-145   Monuments and markers
   
15-146   Streets and alleys
   
15-147   Bridges, culverts and low water crossings
   
15-148   Street and regulatory signs
   
15-149   Street lights
   
15-150   Pedestrianways
   
15-151   Landscaping and natural features
   
15-152   Water system
   
15-153   Sewage collection and disposal systems
   
15-154   Design criteria for sanitary sewers
   
15-155   Storm drainage and flood hazard areas
Article 6: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
15-156 through 15-199 Reserved for future use
Article 7: Penalty
   
15-200   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: PLANNING AND PRESERVATION COMMISSIONS
§ 15-1 MUNICIPAL AND REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSIONS CREATED.
   See
Chapter 1,
Article 3,
§ 1-57 of this code of ordinances.
§ 15-2 JURISDICTION AREAS.
   1.   The Municipal Planning Commission and the Preservation Commission shall
have jurisdiction over all land within the corporate limits of the city.
   2.   The jurisdictional area of the Regional Planning Commission shall
include, for the purposes of the regulation and review of land subdivision
only, any lands outside the corporate limits of the city whose any one
boundary, at any point, shall be at and within a distance of three miles from
the corporate limits of said community; provided, that, such jurisdiction shall
only include land within the county.
§ 15-3 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   1.   The Planning Commission and the Preservation Commission shall prescribe
and adopt rules and regulations governing the transaction of business, and
shall keep a public record of all regulations, transactions and findings.
   2.   Regular meetings of the Planning Commission shall be scheduled at least
four times each year; regular meetings of the Preservation Commission shall be
scheduled at least four times each year.
   3.   Special and emergency meetings may be called by the Mayor or
Chairperson of each Commission, in accordance with the State Open Meetings Act,
being 25 O.S. §§ 301 through 314.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 10-19-2023)
§ 15-4 EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES.
   1.   The Planning Commission and the Preservation Commission shall have the
authority to contract for necessary professional services, within the limits of
any budgetary appropriations fixed by the City Council; all compensation for
such services shall also be fixed by said City Council.
   2.   The Planning Commission and the Preservation Commission may incur other
necessary expenses, within the limits of the City Council budgetary
appropriations, to carry out all purposes and responsibilities.
§ 15-5 PROJECT REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   All projects or matter that fall within the duties and powers of the
Planning Commission or the Preservation Commission (as specified in this code
of ordinances), shall be referred to either Commission for investigation and
report, before any final action shall be taken thereon by the City Council. If
either Commission fails to make an investigation and report on any matter
referred to it within 60 days, or other agreed upon time, the City Council may
proceed to act upon such matter.
§ 15-6 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   1.   The Planning Commission shall have the following duties and powers:
      a.   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, for adoption, a
comprehensive plan for the future development of the city and to ensure that
said plan, once prepared and adopted, is properly utilized and updated at
appropriate intervals;
      b.   To make recommendations concerning the community’s growth,
improvement and beautification;
      c.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the City Council Trustees
on all matters relating to the location and development of parks and
recreational areas, streets, public grounds and structures;
      d.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the City Council, for
adoption, a suitable zoning ordinance to assist in the implementation of the
community’s comprehensive plan, and to assist said City Council in
administering said zoning ordinance;
      e.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the City Council, for
adoption, rules and standards for use in regulating the subdivision of land
within the Planning Commission’s jurisdictional area, and to assist said City
Council in administering said land subdivision regulations; and
      f.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the City Council, for
adoption, such other rules, regulations or standards as may be necessary to
implement the comprehensive plan for the city including standards and
regulations for floodplain management, historic preservation, signs, annexation
and utility extensions, among others.
   2.   The Planning Commission may also accept or raise funds, from public or
private sources, for valid purposes or projects.
§§ 15-7 THROUGH 15-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: ZONING
§ 15-20 MUNICIPALITY’S POWER TO ZONE.
   1.   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety and welfare of all
citizens of the community, the City Council is empowered to regulate and
restrict the height, number of stories and size of structures, the percentage
of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards and other open spaces, the
density of population and the location and use of structures and land.
   2.   For any of the above purposes, the City Council may adopt an ordinance
dividing the municipality into zoning districts of such number, shape and area
as may be deemed most beneficial to the community. Within such zoning
districts, the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or
use of structures or land may be regulated. All such regulations shall be
uniform throughout each district, but the regulations in any zoning district
may differ from those in other districts.
§ 15-21 RELATIONSHIP OF ZONING TO THE ADOPTED COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   1.   Any zoning ordinance adopted by the City Council shall be made
subsequent to the preparation of, and in accordance with, the community’s
comprehensive plan, which plan shall be adopted as a statement of public policy
by resolution of said City Council.
   2.   Zoning districts created for protection of historic resources shall
also be made subsequent to the preparation of, and in accordance with, an
adopted comprehensive plan element for the particular historic resource or area
to be protected.
§ 15-22 PLANNING COMMISSION TO BE ZONING COMMISSION.
   To avail itself of the powers of state law, the Municipal Planning
Commission is hereby designated as the Zoning Commission of the city.
§ 15-23 ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance, as adopted and amended, shall be amended again this
date, by the adoption of a new zoning districts map, effective on June 10,
2002.
§ 15-24 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   See
Chapter 1,
Article 3,
§ 1-58 of this code of ordinances.
§§ 15-25 THROUGH 15-35 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: ZONING ORDINANCE
§ 15-36 GENERAL PROVISION.
   1.   Force and effect. The zoning standards contained herein, together with
all amendments, shall officially constitute the zoning regulations of the city.
   2.   Purpose. The zoning regulations and the districts as herein established
have been made in accordance with the community’s comprehensive plan for the
purpose of promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
the community. They have been designed to regulate and restrict the height,
number of stories and size of buildings and other structures, the area of lot
that may be covered, the size of the yards, courts and other open spaces, the
density of population and the location and use of buildings, structures and
land for business, residence and other purposes, in order to encourages the
most appropriate uses of land, maintain and stabilize property values, reduce
fire hazards, improve public safety, prevent undue concentrations of
population, encourage redevelopment in existing neighborhoods and create a
comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses throughout the community.
   3.   Zoning districts established. The city is hereby divided into ten
zoning districts. The use, height and area regulations as set out herein are
uniform within each district. The districts established herein shall be known
as:
Zoning Districts
 Abbreviated Designation Zoning District Name
Zoning Districts
   Abbreviated Designation Zoning District Name
a. A-1                     Agricultural Residential District
b. R-1                     Low-Density Residential District
c. R-2                     Single-Family Residential District
d. R-3                     Mixed Residential District
e. P-1                     Planned Redevelopment District
f. P-2                     Planned Unit Development District
g. C-1                     General Commercial District
h. C-2                     Special Commercial District
i. C-3                     Planned Commercial
j. I-1                     Industrial District
 
   4.   Definitions. For the purpose of this regulations, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A subordinate building or portion of the
main building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of
the building or premises.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate
to the main use of land or buildings located upon the same premises.
      ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. Any cloth, card, paper, metal, painted,
glass, wooden, plastic, plaster, stone or other statuary, placed for outdoor
advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post,
fence, building or structure. The term PLACED shall include erecting,
constructing, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking,
carving or otherwise fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner
whatsoever. The area of an advertising structure other than a sign shall be
determined as the area of the largest cross-section of such structure. Neither
directional, warning nor other signs posted by public officials in the course
of their public duties shall be construed as ADVERTISING SIGNS for the purpose
of this definition.
      AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including
farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture and-animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses
for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided, however, that the
operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal
agricultural activities. The operation of commercial feed pens, sales yards and
auction yards for cattle or hogs shall be deemed an industrial and not an
agricultural use.
      ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, from which a
secondary means of access to the back or side of properties abutting a street
is obtained (not intended for general traffic circulation), and which may be
used for public utility purposes.
      APARTMENT HOUSE or MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A single detached dwelling
designed for and occupied exclusively by three or more families living
independently of each other as separate housekeeping units, including apartment
houses, apartment hotels and flats, but not including auto or trailer courts or
camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
      BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story when more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
      BLOCK. A parcel of land, intended to be used for development purposes,
which is entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights-of-
way, public walks, easements, parks or drainage channels.
      BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals, or lodging and
meals, are provided for three or more, but not exceeded 12 persons.
      BUILDING. Any structure. When separated by dividing walls without
openings, each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a
separate BUILDING.
      BUILDING CODE. A collection of regulations, adopted by the local
governing body, setting forth standards for the construction of buildings and
other structures, for the purpose of protecting the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the
highest and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to
the highest point of coping of a flat roof, the deck line of a mansard roof or
to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
      BUILDING LINE. A line frequently drawn on a subdivision plat to indicate
the setback distance from the lot line. (Note: this line does not necessarily
coincide with the actual construction line of a building or structure; only a
minimum requirement.)
      BUILDING PERMIT. Permit required before construction can be initiated;
building permit provisions are contained in the code of ordinances of the city.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL OR MAIN. A building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district,
any dwelling shall be deemed to be a MAIN BUILDING on the lot on which it is
situated.
      BUILDING SITE. A single parcel of land in one ownership, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
      CARPORT. A permanent roofed structure open on at least two sides designed
for or occupied by private passenger vehicles. CARPORTS are permitted to be
added to an existing residential structure specified districts subject to the
conditions and requirements of the code of ordinances of the city.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
      CHILD CARE OR DAY CARE CENTER. Any place, home or institution which
receives three or more children under the age of 16 years, and not of common
parentage, for care apart from their natural parents, legal guardians or
custodians, when received for regular periods of time for compensation;
provided, however, this definition shall not include public and private schools
organized, operated or approved under the laws of this state, custody of
children fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction, children related by blood
or marriage within the third degree to the custodial person, or to churches or
other religious or public institutions caring for children while their parents
or legal guardians are attending services or meetings or classes or engaged in
church activities.
      CITY or TOWN. The City of Cache, Oklahoma.
      COMPREHENSIVE, COMMUNITY, GENERAL OR MASTER PLAN. The officially adopted
comprehensive plan or plans for the community, which provides long-range
development policies, plans or programs for the community and its developing
areas, and which includes, among other things, land use and housing elements,
traffic circulation elements and community utilities and facilities elements.
      DENSITY, DWELLING UNIT. The number of dwelling units per acre.
      DENSITY, POPULATION. The number of persons per acre.
      DRAINAGEWAY. Any depression below the surrounding land, serving to give
direction to a regular or periodic current of water.
      DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed for use for
residential purposes.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed for occupancy by three or
more families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer
courts or camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed to be occupied by one
family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed to be occupied by not more than
two families.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood or marriage, or a group of
not to exceed five persons (excluding servants) not all related by blood or
marriage, occupying premises and living as a single non-profit housekeeping
unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or lodging house,
hotel, club or similar dwelling for group use.
      FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas adjacent to a stream channel or
channels, resulting from the overflow of such streams, rivers or other inland
waterways.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The maximum area of the floodplain that, on the
average, is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of being flooded in any given year).
      FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. An official map or plat of the community
issued or approved by the Federal Flood Insurance Administrator, on which the
boundaries of floodplain areas having special hazards have been drawn.
      FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a river, stream or other body of water
which has been or may be hereafter covered by flood water.
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. The full range of codes, ordinances
and other regulations relating to the use of land and construction within the
limits of the floodplain; the term encompasses zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations and sanitary and building codes, among other elements.
      FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes or adjustments to properties and structures subject to
flooding, which reduces or eliminates flood damage to lands, water and sanitary
facilities or the contents of buildings in a flood hazard area.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a watercourse or drainageway and those portions
of the floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry
the discharge the flood waters of any watercourse or drainageway.
      FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lines marking the limits of floodways on
official federal, state and local floodplain maps.
      GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling unit for not more than one family, erected
above a garage.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a main
building used for the parking or temporary storage of the automobiles of the
occupants of the premises provided that not to exceed two spaces may be rented
to persons not residing on the premises, and farther provided that not more
than one commercial vehicle per family dwelling on the premises and not
exceeding one and one-half tons rated capacity may be parked or stored therein.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage used for the care,
servicing, repair, equipment of automobiles or where such vehicles are parked
or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
      HARDSHIP. A HARDSHIP that would result from a failure to grant a
requested variance which must be exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial HARDSHIP along is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as exception HARDSHIPS. All of these problems can be resolved
through other means, without granting a variance. This is so even if the
alternative means are more expensive or complicated than building with a
variance, or if they require the property owner to put the parcel to a
different use than originally intended, or to build his or her home/structure
elsewhere.
      HOME BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION. Any occupation carried on only by the
inhabitants, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling purposes and does not change the character thereof, and which is
conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings; provided that no
physical personal service is performed and no trading in merchandise is carried
on and in connection with which there is no sign or display other than one non-
illuminated name plate not more than three square feet in area attached to the
building, and that no mechanical equipment is used or activity is conducted
which creates any noise, dust, odor or electrical disturbance beyond the
confines of the lot on which said occupation is conducted.
      HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership
containing six or more sleeping rooms occupied, intended or designed to the
occupied as the more or less temporary abode place of persons who are lodged
with or without meals for compensation, but not including an auto or trailer
court or camp, sanatorium, hospital, asylum, orphanage or building where
persons are housed under restraint.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, more than four
months of age, are kept.
      LAUNDROMAT. A laundry providing home-type washing, drying and/or ironing
machines for hire to be used on the premises by customers.
      LOT. A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. Such LOT shall have frontage on a public
street and may consist of:
         (1)   A single lot of record;
         (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (3)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record; or
         (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in
no case of division or combination shall any residential lot or parcel be
created which does not meet the requirements of this article.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
      LOT DEPTH. The average distance from the street line of the lot to its
rear line, measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street except the side dimension of a corner lot.
      LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut for their
full lengths on a street; provided that the interior angle at the intersection
of such two sides is less than 135 degrees.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT OF RECORD. A separate and distinct parcel of land designated on a
legally recorded subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed in the
records of the County Courthouse in Lawton, Oklahoma.
      LOT SPLIT. Any division of land by metes and bounds description into two
or more parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership and which constitutes a subdivision as herein defined.
      MEDICAL FACILITIES.
         (1)   CONVALESCENT, REST OR NURSING HOME. A health facility where
persons are housed and furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for
hire.
         (2)   DENTAL OR MEDICAL OFFICES OR CLINICS. A facility for the
examination and treatment of ill and afflicted human outpatients; provided,
however, that patients are not kept overnight except under emergency
conditions.
         (3)   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services primarily for
human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices which are an integral
part of the facilities.
         (4)   PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER. A facility primarily utilized by a health
unit for the provision of public health services including related facilities
such as laboratories, clinics and administrative offices operated in connection
therewith and including the State Health Department.
         (5)   SANATORIUM. An institution providing health facilities for in-
patient medical treatment or treatment and recuperation using natural
therapeutic agents.
      MINOR VARIANCE. An encroachment upon any required building setback line
when the encroachment represents 20% or less of the required yard and involves
a minor portion of the structure or encroachment upon any required building
setback line when the encroachment would conform to the setback line
established by a legally protected nonconforming structure on lot subject to
the application.
      MOBILE HOME. A portable or mobile living unit, used or designed for human
occupancy on a permanent basis; a transportable structure designed or used for
year-round residential occupancy which exceeds eight feet in body width or 32
feet in body length, built upon or having a frame or chassis to which wheels
may be attached, by which it may be moved upon a highway, whether or not such
structure actually has, at any given time, such wheels attached, or is jacked
up or skirted, and which has provisions for compliance with applicable code
requirements for dwellings.
         (1)   Skirting must meet manufacturer’s specifications and conceal the
underside of the mobile home. The skirting shall be of a compatible material
with the mobile home structure. Have a hinged opening provided for access to
the underside of the mobile home. Skirting is required to be in place within 30
days of permit issue date.
         (2)   Minimum effective lot width shall be 50 feet, measured at the
front building line, and minimum lot areas shall be 5,000 square feet.
         (3)   Must have a defined off-street parking and must be of a minimum
material requirement of chipped rock.
         (4)   Steps, porches, decks and other additions, when installed shall
be approved by the City Building Inspector. They shall be maintained in good
repair.
         (5)   Must have hitch mechanisms (if possible) and wheels removed.
         (6)   Must be place on concrete blocks with access to the underside of
the mobile home and be in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Land or property which is used or intended to be used
or rented for occupancy by two or more trailers or movable sleeping quarters of
any kind.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A unified development of mobile home lots which
has been divided for the purpose of individual ownership and which is governed
by the provisions of the subdivision regulations and municipal code of the
city.
      MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated, transportable building unit, not
built on a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be
incorporated with similar units on a permanent foundation; the term is intended
to apply to major assemblies and does not include prefabricated sub-elements
incorporated into a structure at the site.
      MOTOR HOME. See definition of TRAILER.
      NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL USE. A commercial establishment whose primary
purpose is to provide services (of a compatible nature with surrounding
residential uses) to the neighborhood within which it is located. Such uses
include, but are not necessarily limited to, neighborhood grocery stores,
barber shops and beauty salons; an alcoholic beverage package store, a bar or a
tavern shall not be considered a NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL USE.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE OF LAND.
         (1)   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure,
lawfully occupied or used at the time this chapter became effective which does
not conform in part or wholly to any or all of the use, area, height, coverage,
off-street parking or any other regulations of the district in which it is
located.
         (2)   NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND. Any lawful use of land, existing at
the time of the effective date of this chapter, which does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      OFF-STREET PARKING. A means of right-of-way for accessing a public street
or place.
      ONE HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. A flood of a frequency expected to occur on
the average of once every 100 years or a flood magnitude which has a 1% chance
of occurring in any given year. (See also FLOOD HAZARD AREA.)
      PARKING SPACE. An area sufficient in size (at least nine and one-half
feet by 25 feet) to park one automobile, having a sufficient ingress or egress
from the street or alley; a garage shall not be considered a PARKING SPACE for
purposes of these zoning regulations.
      PLAT, FINAL. A map of a land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record with necessary affidavits, dedications and acceptances and
with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defined lots and blocks,
streets and alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the
character and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
      ROADWAY. The portion of any street so designated for vehicular traffic;
where curbs are in place, that portion of the street between the curbs.
      SETBACK. The distance between the lot line and the building line.
      SETBACK, FRONT YARD. The minimum horizontal distance between the street
easement line (front lot line) and the main building or structure, (including a
garage or any projection thereof other than steps) required to create a yard
extending across the front of a lot between the side lot lines. (Note: the
platted “building line” need not coincide with the city’s minimum setback line
in all cases; see the definition of BUILDING LINE.) (See also YARD, FRONT.)
      SETBACK, REAR YARD. The minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line (alley easement line, if one exists) and the rear of the main building (or
any projections other than eaves, steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed
porches) required to create a yard extending across the rear of the lot and
measured between side lot lines. On corner lots, the rear yard shall be
considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard. (See also YARD,
REAR.)
      SETBACK, SIDE YARD. The minimum horizontal distance between a side lot
line and the side of the main building (or any projections thereof other than
steps and two-foot eaves) required to create a side yard extending from the
front lot line to the rear lot line. (See also YARD, SIDE.)
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction on a
site, such as the pouring of footings or any work beyond the stage of
excavation. For a structure without a basement or poured footings, the start of
excavation. For a structure without a basement or poured footings, the START OF
CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure
or any part thereof on its pilings or foundation, or the affixing of any
prefabricated structure or mobile home on its permanent site. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, land clearing, grading or
filling, excavation for basement, footings, piers of foundations, erection of
temporary forms, the installation of sewer, gas or water pipes or electric or
other services lines from the street, or existence on the property of accessory
buildings (such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not a
part of the main structure).
      STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use. A HALF-STORY containing independent apartment or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
      STREET. Any public or private right-of-way, highway, road, land, square,
court or way set aside as a permanent right-of-way for street purposes, 30 feet
or more in width if it existed at the time of the enactment of this chapter and
any public or private way 50 feet or more in width if created after the
enactment of this chapter.
      STREET, HALF. Any street platted 25 feet or more in width, where at the
time of the approval of the plat it is the intent of the City Commission that
said street dedication shall constitute only a part of the total street
easement width.
      STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street which joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
      STREET, MAJOR. An arterial street which is so designated on the major
street plan, comprehensive or community plan, and is designed to carry
intercity traffic and to relate the various neighborhoods or residential areas
within the community.
      STREET, MINOR. Any street other than one designated as a major street in
the major streets plan or the community or comprehensive plan, but not
including alleyways. MINOR STREETS shall be classified as follows.
         (1)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street collecting traffic from other minor
streets; serves as the most direct route to a major street or community
facility.
         (2)   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one end open to vehicular traffic
and one closed end, terminated by a turnaround.
         (3)   DEAD-END STREET. A street, similar to a cul-de-sac, but
providing no turnaround at its closed end.
         (4)   FRONTAGE OR SERVICE STREET. A street auxiliary to, and located
on, the side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent
areas and for control of access.
         (5)   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily providing access to and from
abutting property and serving only occasional through traffic.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
      STRUCTURE. A building which is used for residential, business,
agricultural, religious or other purposes, which is occupied by a private, non-
profit organization, or which is owned by state or local government or an
agency thereof. The term includes a building while in the course of
construction, alteration or repair, but does not include building materials or
supplies intended for use in such construction, alteration or repair, unless
such materials or supplies are within an enclosed building on the premises.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the actual cash value of
the structure either before the improvement is started, or if the structure has
been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is started when the first alteration of any structural part of the
building commences.
      TOURIST TRAILER CAMP. Land or property which is used or intended to be
used or rented for occupancy by two or more trailers or movable dwellings,
rooms or sleeping quarters of any kind.
      TRAILER (OR MOTOR) HOME. A vehicular portable structure, built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
or vacation uses, permanently identified as a travel trailer by the
manufacturer and, when factory-equipped, having a body width not exceeding
eight feet nor a body length exceeding 32 feet; in the case of a motor home,
such dwelling is constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of the city’s zoning ordinances
excluding use when such VARIANCE will not be contrary to the public interest,
and where, owing to the conditions peculiar to the property and not the result
of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would
result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
      YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the
ground upward. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining the width of
the side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the least
horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line
and the main building or any projection thereof other than steps.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between
lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the rear of the main building or any projections thereof other than eaves,
steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots the REAR YARD
shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots the REAR YARD shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main building
or any projections other than steps and two foot eaves.
      WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The heights, in relation to mean sea level
(MSL), expected to be reached by floods of various magnitudes and frequencies
at pertinent points in the floodplains or riverine areas.
   5.   Official zoning map.
      a.   The city is hereby divided into zones or districts, as shown on the
official zoning district map, which, together with all explanatory matter
thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter as fully as if the same were set forth herein in detail.
      b.   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and Oklahoma
Statutes, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on
the official zoning district map, such changes shall be made on the official
zoning district map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City
Council, together with an entry on the official zoning district map, made by
the City Clerk, as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City Council,
the following change was made in the official zoning district map: (brief
description of nature of change).”
      c.   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning
district map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures
set forth in this chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any
person or persons shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
      d.   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official
zoning district map which may from time to time be made or published, the
official zoning district map which shall be located in the City Hall shall be
the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas,
buildings or other structures of the community.
      e.   In the event that the official zoning district map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of
changes and additions, the City Council may, by resolution, adopt a new
official zoning district map which shall supersede the prior official zoning
district map. The new official zoning district map may correct drafting or
other errors or omissions in the prior official zoning district map, but no
such correction shall have the effect of amending the original zoning ordinance
or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new official zoning district map shall
be identified by the signature of the City Clerk and bear the seal of the city
under the following words: “This is to certify that this official zoning map
supersedes and replaces the official zoning map adopted (date of adoption of
map being replaced), as part of Ordinance No. _____ of the City of Cache,
Oklahoma.”
   6.   Zoning district boundaries.
      a.   The district boundary lines shown on the zoning district map are
usually along streets, alleys, property lines or extensions thereof; where
uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the official
zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
         (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines
of streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
         (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
         (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following municipal limits
shall be construed as following municipal limits.
         (4)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be
construed to be the centerline of the right-of-way, or if no centerline is
established, the boundary shall be interpreted to be midway between the right-
of-way lines of such railroad.
         (5)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in subsections 6.a.(1) through 6.a.(4) above shall be so construed.
Distances not specifically indicated on the original zoning map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
         (6)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by
official action, or whenever such area is franchised for building purposes, the
zoning district adjoining each side of such street, alley or other public way
shall be automatically extended to the centerline of such vacated street, alley
or way and all areas so involved shall then and henceforth be subject to all
regulations of the extended districts.
      b.   Where physical features on the ground area are at variance with
information shown on the official zoning district map, or when there arises a
question as to how or whether a parcel of property is zoned and such question
cannot be resolved by the application of subsections 6.a.(1) through 6.a.(6)
above, the property shall be considered as classified A-1 Agricultural
Residential District, temporarily, in the same manner as provided for newly-
annexed territory and the issuance of a building permit and the determination
of permanent zoning shall be in accordance with the provisions providing for
amendments to the zoning ordinance and map.
   7.   Zoning of annexed territory.
      a.   All territory hereinafter annexed to the city shall be automatically
classified as A-1 Agricultural Residential District.
      b.   (1)   Owners or developers of land annexed to the community may
petition the City Council for zoning district classification other than the A-
1 Agricultural Residential District, by following the procedures outlined for
rezoning or amendment applications in
§ 15-38, subsection 3., of this zoning chapter.
         (2)   This process may be initiated at any time prior to, during or
subsequent to, the official annexation of the territory, but in all cases:
            (a)   The procedures outlined in
§ 15-38 (referenced above) must be followed; and
            (b)   The passage, adoption and publication by the City Board of
the ordinance indicating the zoning district classification or change must not
occur until after the territory involved has been officially annexed.
§ 15-37 SPECIFIC ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   1.   Use of land, buildings and structures regulated.
      a.   Land, buildings and structures within the city may be used for any
of the purposes, functions or uses specifically permitted in the zoning
district in which said land, building or structure is located; no land shall
hereafter be used, nor shall any building or structure hereafter be erected,
altered or converted, which is designed or arranged for uses other than those
specified for the zoning district in which said land, building or structure is
located, as set forth in the regulations for each zoning district, which
follow.
      b.   All land, buildings, structures or appurtenances located thereon
within the city which are hereafter used, erected, altered, removed,
demolished, converted or occupied, shall be used, erected, altered, removed,
demolished, converted or occupied in conformance with the provisions prescribed
for the zoning district in which such land, building, structure or appurtenance
is located.
   A-1 AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL
   1.   Purpose. This district is intended to preserve land for agricultural
and related residential commercial uses, prevent premature suburban development
and expensive extension or municipal utilities.
   2.   Parking.
A-1 Agricultural Residential
 Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
A-1 Agricultural Residential
   Permitted Principal Uses and          Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
   Structures
   General farming and other
a. agricultural activities which are not None
   in conflict with other ordinances of
   the municipality
b. Single-family farm or ranch home on   None
   (minimum) 5-acre lot
   Mobile home converted to real estate
c. on (minimum) 5-acre lot, provided     None
   such homes comply with municipal
   ordinances
d. Parks, recreation or play areas       5 spaces for each acre developed for
                                         active usage
                                         25 spaces plus 1 space for every 4
e. Fairgrounds or rodeo areas            seats in the main stadium or
                                         auditorium
                                         1 space per classroom and office plus
f. Elementary or secondary schools       1 space for every 6 seats in main
                                         auditorium or stadium
g. Churches and religious temples        1 space per 4 seats in auditorium
                                         3 spaces per green or 1 space for
   Golf courses and country clubs,       every 100 square feet of clubhouse per
h. except miniature golf courses or      green or 1 space for every 100 square
   commercial driving range              feet of clubhouse floor area,
                                         whichever is greater
i. Community-wide or neighborhood        1 space for every 50 square feet of
   meeting or recreation buildings       floor area
 
   3.   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Subject to the provisions of
this chapter, the following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the
A-1 Agricultural Residential District:
      a.   Farm buildings directly related to agricultural uses;
      b.   Private garages;
      c.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
      d.   Private green houses not operated for commercial purposes;
      e.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures of this district which do not involve
the conduct of business other than “home occupations” on the premises;
      f.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work;
provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of said
construction work;
      g.   Commercial stands, operated on a temporary or seasonal basis;
provided that such stands, as well as the surrounding area, are properly
maintained, free from trash, weeds and debris, throughout the entire year; and
      h.   Carports may be permitted provided they comply with the requirements
and provisions in the R-2 (Single-Family Residential District) permitted
accessory uses and structures, in this chapter.
   4.   Uses and structures permitted on review. Subject to the requirements of
Article III of this chapter the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit the
following uses and structures on review:
      a.   Sanitary landfill or waste disposal area: provided that:
         (1)   Refuse shall be covered daily with dirt;
         (2)   Smoke, odor or blowing trash or debris shall not be allowed to
create a public nuisance;
         (3)   The operator agrees in writing to restore the site to a
condition compatible with the adjacent area upon conclusion of the landfill
operation;
         (4)   A gravel access road, as a minimum be provided;
         (5)   At least five parking spaces be provided; and
         (6)   No landfill or waste disposal area shall be located closer than
one-quarter mile to any dwelling, park, school, church or place of public
assembly.
      b.   Public buildings, utilities and railroads (but not including
unscreened equipment storage and maintenance yards, or general administrative
and sales offices); provided that:
         (1)   Any building or substation shall meet the front and rear yard
setback requirements for dwellings in the R-2 Single-Family Residential
District, and provide side yard setbacks of at least 25 feet; and
         (2)   At least two parking spaces per substation plus one parking
space per employee at the site be provided.
      c.   Communications stations and towers; provided that:
         (1)   They shall not be closer to a dwelling or place of public
assembly than a distance equal to one-half their height;
         (2)   The height and location of such structures shall not interfere
with the operation of any airport or landing strip; and
         (3)   At least one parking space per employee at the site and one
parking space for each at the site and one parking space for each vehicle used
by the facility be provided.
      d.   Animal hospitals or dog kennels; provided that:
         (1)   Such uses comply with all municipal codes and ordinances
relating thereto; and
         (2)   They comply with requirements for such uses outlined in the I-
1 Industrial District, of this chapter.
      e.   Airfields, airports and landing strips;
      f.   Public stables; provided that such uses comply with all municipal
codes and ordinances relating thereto;
      g.   Oil or natural gas drilling operations, or the extraction of
minerals; provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with all
municipal codes, ordinances and state laws relating thereto;
      h.   Cemeteries or mausoleums; and
      i.   Child or day care centers; provided that they are in compliance with
provisions for such uses outlined in the R-3 Mixed Residential District, of
this chapter.
 
A-1 Agricultural Residential
Minimum Lot Area and Width       Minimum Required Front Side and Maximum Height
                                 Rear Yard Setbacks
Minimum lot area for residential None                            None
uses: 5 acres
 
   5.   Special requirements. All signs and billboards shall be maintained in a
neat and presentable condition and in the event their use shall cease, the area
shall be restored to a condition free from refuse, rubble or debris.
   R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
   1.   Purpose. This district is intended to provide minimum standards for
low-density, planned, single-family residential development on lands outside of
the major drainage basin which provides “gravity flow” capabilities for the
community’s sewage collection and disposal system. Additional objectives of
this district are to control sprawl and “leap-frog” development, prevent the
depletion of ground water reserves through encouraged use of the municipal
water system, ensure adequate fire protection, eliminate septic system
pollution and provide adequate utility, roadway and drainage easements for
present and future use in the area.
   2.   Parking.
 
R-1 Low Density Residential
   Permitted Principal Uses and           Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
   Structures
a. Single-family dwelling                 2 spaces
b. General agricultural crops, but not    None
   the raising of farm animals or poultry
c. Neighborhood meeting or recreation     1 space for every 50 square feet of
   building(s)                            floor area.
d. Parks, playground or recreation area   4 spaces for each acre of developed
                                          for active use
                                          1 space per classroom/office plus 1
e. Elementary schools                     space per 6 seats in the main
                                          auditorium
 
   3.   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Subject to the provisions of
this and other municipal codes and ordinances, the following accessory uses and
structures are permitted in the R-1 Low Density Residential District:
      a.   One guest house per principal residential structure;
      b.   Private garages; provided that;
         (1)   Such structures shall not encroach upon the front, side or rear
yard setback requirements of the principal or main structures in this district;
and
         (2)   Such structures shall not encroach upon any utility, street or
alley easement.
      c.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts and recreation and play
areas, either individually owned or operated on a non-profit basis primarily
for area residents;
      d.   Private pump house;
      e.   Private green houses (not operated for commercial uses) and gardens
or areas for the raising of agricultural crops (but not areas for the raising
of livestock).
      f.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work;
provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of said
construction work;
      g.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses and structures of this district; provided that:
         (1)   Such structures and uses shall not involve the conduct of
business (except “home occupations”) on the premises;
         (2)   Such structures and uses shall not include barns or sheds for
the keeping of livestock or other agriculturally-related machinery or material;
         (3)   Such structures and uses shall not encroach upon the front yard
setback requirements of the principal or main structures in this district;
         (4)   Such structures shall setback not less than five feet from the
side lot lines;
         (5)   Such structures shall setback not less than five feet from the
rear lot lines;
         (6)   Such structures shall setback not less than ten feet from the
principal or main structure; and
         (7)   Such structures shall not encroach within one foot upon any
utility easement.
      h.   Carports may be permitted provided they comply with the requirements
and provisions in the R-2 (Single Family Residential District) permitted
accessory uses and structures, in this chapter.
   4.   Uses and structures permitted on review. Subject to the requirements of
Article III of this chapter the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit the
following uses and structures on review:
      a.   Golf courses and clubs (but not miniature golf courses or commercial
driving ranges operated separately from golf courses); provided that off-street
parking is in conformance with requirements for such uses outlined in the A-
1 Agricultural Residential District;
      b.   Public utility or facility buildings (but not including open
equipment storage, maintenance yards or general administrative and sales
offices); provided that:
         (1)   Any building, structure or substation shall meet the front and
rear yard setback requirements for single-family dwellings in this district,
and shall provide side yard setbacks of not less than 25 feet; and
         (2)   Two parking spaces per structure or per one employee on the
site, whichever is the greater, shall be provided.
R-1 Low Density
Minimum Lot Area and Width Minimum Required Front, Side and Rear Maximum Height
                           Yard Setbacks
R-1 Low Density
                                 Minimum Required Front,
Minimum Lot Area and Width       Side and Rear Yard      Maximum Height
                                 Setbacks
Single-Family Dwelling
                                 Front - all lots - 40
                                 feet; (double street
   Are1 acre                  frontage shall provide  2.5 stories or 35 feet
                                 a front yard setback on
                                 both streets)
         150 feet at the
         building line; all lots
   Widshall abut a public     Rear - 30 feet
         street for a minimum
         distance of 50 feet
                                 Side
                                 Interior lot or side -
                                 25 feet; Street side
                                 corner lot - 40 feet
Schools, Public and Other Buildings
Same as for single-family        Front - 45 feet
dwellings                        Rear - 35 feet          2.5 stories or 35 feet
                                 Side - 30 feet
 
   5.   Special requirements.
      a.   Hedges, shrubbery or bushes of more than three feet in height shall
not be planted, placed or maintained on a corner so as to restrict the vision
of drivers, persons on bicycles or pedestrians. (This type of unobstructed area
is commonly referred to as a “sight triangle”.)
      b.   All signs, including temporary signs, shall be maintained in a neat
and presentable condition and, in the event their use shall cease, they shall
be promptly removed and the surrounding area restored to a condition free from
refuse and trash.
   R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
   1.   Purpose. This district is intended to provide minimum standards for
predominantly single-family residential development located within the city’s
major drainage basin, accompanied by related recreational, religious and
educational facilities. Primary objectives of the regulations in this district
are to protect stable residential neighborhoods from uses which do not
contribute to a residential environment and to encourage planned, contiguous
development.
   2.   Parking.
R-2 Single Family Residential
 Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
R-2 Single Family Residential
   Permitted Principal Uses and          Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
   Structures
a. Single-family dwelling                2 spaces per dwelling
b. Community-wide or neighborhood        1 space for every 50 square feet of
   meeting or recreation building        floor area
c. Park, playground or recreation areas  5 spaces for each acre developed for
                                         active use
                                         1 space per classroom/office, plus 1
d. Elementary or secondary schools       space per 6 seats in the main
                                         auditorium or stadium
e. Churches or religious temples         1 space for every 4 seats in the main
                                         auditorium
f. Funeral parlors                       1 space for every 4 seats in the main
                                         auditorium
g. Scattered-site public housing         2 spaces per dwelling
h. Rooming or boarding houses (not to    1 space for every 2 beds
   include hotels or motels)
i. Nursing homes on sites of less than 1 1 space per employee, plus 1 space for
   acre                                  every 2 beds
j. Medical clinics and facilities on     1 space for each employee, plus 6
   sites of less than 1 acre             spaces
 
   3.   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Subject to the provisions of
this and other municipal ordinances, the following accessory uses and
structures are permitted in the R-2 Single-Family Residential District:
      a.   Private garages and garage apartments; provided that:
         (1)   Such structures shall observe the same front, side or rear yard
setback requirements as principal or main structures in this district; and
         (2)   Such structures shall not encroach upon any utility, street or
alley easement.
      b.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
      c.   Private green houses (not operated for commercial purposes) and
gardens or areas for the raising of agricultural crops (but not areas for the
raising of livestock);
      d.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work;
provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the
construction work;
      e.   Carports; provided that:
         (1)   A carport may be permitted on the side of a structure provided
it is located at least five feet from the side property line of an interior
lot. A carport may be permitted on a side property line on a corner lot
provided that it is located at least 15 feet from the intersecting street. If
the corner lot is back to back with another corner lot, a setback of at least
20 feet from the intersecting street is required;
         (2)   All carports shall comply with the front yard setback
requirements of this
Chapter 15, provided that carports used in conjunction with single-family
dwellings or two-family dwellings located only on local residential streets as
defined by the subdivision, shall be permitted to extend into the required
front yard setback area. However, no such carport shall be closer than 11.5
feet in distance from back of the curb or the edge of the pavement. In no case
shall the erection of such carports extend past the property line into the
street right-of-way nor interfere with the existing sidewalks, sight triangle
or fire hydrants. This provision does not give a landowner any legal right to
the right-of-way, and the city shall be held harmless with respect to any
future use of the right-of-way by the city or utility company;
         (3)   Under no circumstances shall any carport used in conjunction
with a single-family dwelling or two-family dwelling exceed 26 feet in width.
All wide measurements shall be from eaves line to eaves line. No more than one
carport shall be permitted for each dwelling unit;
         (4)   All carports behind the building limit line shall be permanently
open on two sides from grade surface to the eaves line. All carports which
extend into the required front yard setback and abut the main structure shall
be permanently open on three sides from the grade surface to the eaves line;
and
         (5)   No person shall erect, install or construct a carport without
first obtaining a building permit. All carports shall be kept in an attractive
state, in good repair, and in a safe and sanitary conditions.
      f.   Uses and structure clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses and structures in this district (including storage sheds and
similar structures), not involving the conduct of business on the premises
(except legal “home occupations”) and located on the same lot or a contiguous
lot under the same ownership; provided that:
         (1)   Such structures shall not encroach upon the front yard setback
requirements of the principal or main structures in this district;
         (2)   Such structures shall be set back not less than five feet from
the side lot lines;
         (3)   Such structures shall be set back not less than five feet from
the rear lot line;
         (4)   Such structures shall set back not less than ten feet from the
principal or main structure; and
         (5)   Such structures shall not encroach within one foot upon any
utility easement.
   4.   Uses and structures permitted on review. Subject to the requirements of
Article III of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit the
following uses and structures on review:
      a.   Nursing and convalescent homes and hospitals on sites of more than
one acre; provided that:
         (1)   Front, side and rear yard setbacks shall be comparable to
similar institutional uses permitted in this district; and
         (2)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required for similar
institutional uses permitted in this district.
      b.   Golf courses and clubs (but not miniature golf courses or commercial
driving ranges operated separately from golf courses).
      c.   Neighborhood commercial uses (such as neighborhood grocery stores or
bakeries); provided that:
         (1)   No outside storage is permitted;
         (2)   Yard setback and height restrictions shall be in accordance with
the requirements for schools, churches and other public or institutional
facilities permitted in this district;
         (3)   Restrictions on accessory uses and structures permitted in this
district shall be adhered to; and
         (4)   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with the
requirements for similar uses in the C-1 General Commercial District.
R-2 Single-Family Residential
Minimum Lot Area and Width Minimum Required Front, Side and Rear Maximum Height
                           Yard Setbacks
R-2 Single-Family Residential
                                 Minimum Required Front,
Minimum Lot Area and Width       Side and Rear Yard      Maximum Height
                                 Setbacks
Single-Family Dwelling (or Other Non-Institutional Uses)
                                 Front
                                 Interior lot - 25 feet
                                 Corner lot, home facing
                                 same direction as other
                                 homes on block - 25
                                 feet
   Are6,500 square feet       Corner lot, home facing 2.5 stories or 35 feet
                                 side street w/driveway
                                 in front - 25 feet
                                 Corner lot, home facing
                                 side street w/driveway
                                 through rear or either
                                 side - 15 feet
   Wid50 feet at the building Rear - 30 feet
         line
                                 Side
                                 One story - 5 feet
                                 Two or more stories -
                                 20 feet Street side,
                                 corner lot, home facing
                                 same direction as other
                                 homes on block - 15
                                 feet
                                 Street side, corner
                                 lot, home facing side
                                 street - 25 feet
Schools, Public and Other Public or Institutional Buildings
                                 Front - 35 feet
Same as for single-family        Rear - 35 feet
dwellings                        Side - 20 feet          2.5 stories or 35 feet
                                 Street side, corner lot
                                 - 25 feet
 
   5.   Special requirements.
      a.   Hedges, shrubbery or bushes of more than three feet in height shall
not be planted, placed or maintained on a corner so as to restrict the vision
of drivers, persons on bicycles or pedestrians.
      b.   All signs, including temporary signs, shall be maintained in a neat
and presentable condition and, in the event their use shall cease, they shall
be promptly removed and the surrounding area restored to a condition free from
refuse and trash.
   R-3 MIXED RESIDENTIAL
   1.   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for medium and high
population density and to help establish, preserve or stabilize existing or
developing neighborhoods whose basic structure involves a mixture of single-
family and multi-family residential units. Certain uses which are compatible
with more intensive residential uses are also permitted and greater flexibility
is encouraged in promoting rehabilitation and re-use of existing structures,
utilities and facilities.
   2.   Parking.
R-3 Residential
 Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
R-3 Residential
   Permitted Principal Uses and Structures  Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
a. Any use permitted in the R-2 Single-     Same as in R-2 District
   Family Residential District
b. Two-family dwellings                     2 spaces per dwelling unit
c. Multiple-family dwellings                2 spaces per dwelling unit
d. Mobile homes (but not a mobile home park 2 space per dwelling unit
   or tourist trailer camp)
e. Public housing developments              1 space per dwelling unit
   Public buildings and utilities (but not  6 spaces, plus 1 space for every
f. storage, construction, maintenance or    employee
   repair yards or buildings
 
   3.   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Subject to the provisions of
this and other municipal ordinances, the following accessory uses and
structures are permitted in the R-3 Mixed Residential District:
      a.   Accessory uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to
the permitted principal uses of structures in the R-2 Single-Family Residential
District or R-3 Mixed Residential District, not involving the conduct of
business on the premises (except legal “home occupations” and located on the
same lot or a contiguous lot under the same ownership; and
      b.   Carports may be permitted provided they comply with the requirements
and provisions in the R-2 (Single Family Residential District) permitted
accessory uses and structures, in this chapter.
   4.   Uses and structures permitted on review. Subject to the requirements of
Article III of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit the
following uses and structures on review:
      a.   Railroad and public utility buildings (but not open equipment
storage or maintenance yards or general administrative and sales offices);
provided that:
         (1)   Any building, structure or substation shall meet the front and
rear yard setback requirements for single-family dwellings, and shall provide
side yard setbacks of not less than 25 feet; and
         (2)   Two parking spaces per substation or per one employee on the
site, whichever is the greater be provided.
      b.   Public and private utility and communications stations and towers;
provided that:
         (1)   They shall not be closer to a dwelling or place of public
assembly than a distance equal to one-half their height;
         (3)   Their height and location shall not interfere with the operation
of any airport or landing strip; and
         (3)   One parking space per employee and one parking space for each
vehicle used by the facility be provided.
      c.   Child-care centers; provided that:
         (1)   They be located in a single-family dwelling which is the
permanent residence of the operator, or be located within a multi-purpose
building which is used for religious or educational purposes or is part of a
public housing development;
         (2)   They be operated in a manner that will not alter the residential
character of the neighborhood or adversely affect property values;
         (3)   They be located on a lot having not less than 6,500 square feet
of total area, with a minimum outdoor play area (if available) of 75 square
feet per child, enclosed by a suitable fence;
         (4)   They meet City-County Health Department requirements as to
safety, design, facilities and equipment; and
         (5)   Adequate off-street parking area is provided to minimize the
adverse effects of increased traffic on the surrounding residential
environment.
      d.   Home beauty shop located in a residential dwelling; provided that
such shop is operated within the main dwelling only, by the residents thereof;
      e.   Lodges, fraternities and sororities, except those whose chief
activity is a service customarily carried on as a business or commercial
operation; and
      f.   Off-street parking lots associated with a use permitted in a
residential or commercial district.
R-3 Mixed Residential
Minimum Lot Area and Width Minimum Required Front, Side and Rear Maximum Height
                           Yard Setbacks
R-3 Mixed Residential
                                                                              Minimum
                                                                              Required
Minimum Lot Area and Width                                                    Front, Side  Maximum
                                                                              and Rear     Height
                                                                              Yard
                                                                              Setbacks
Single-Family Dwelling (or Other Non-Institutional Uses)
   Area - 6,500 square feet                                                Same as the
                                                                              R-2 Single-  2.5
                                                                              Family       stories
   Width - 50 feet at the building line                                    Residential  or 35
                                                                              District     feet
                                                                              requirements

Two-Family Dwellings
   Area - 9,600 square feet                                                Same as the
                                                                              R-2 Single-  2.5
                                                                              Family       stories
   Width - 80 feet at the building line                                    Residential  or 35
                                                                              District     feet
                                                                              requirements

Multi-Family Dwelling
                                                                              Same as the
   Area - 7,200 square feet for the first unit, plus 1,500 square feet for R-2 Single-  2.5
each additional unit up to 12 and 750 square feet for each additional unit    Family       stories
over 12                                                                       Residential  or 35
                                                                              District     feet
                                                                              requirements
Schools, Churches or Other Public Institutional Buildings
                                                                              Front - 35
                                                                              feet
                                                                              Rear - 35    2.5
                                                                              feet         stores
   Same as the single-family dwelling requirements                         Side - 20    or 35
                                                                              feet         feet
                                                                              Street site,
                                                                              corner lot -
                                                                              25 feet
 
   5.   Special requirements.
      a.   Hedges, shrubbery or bushes of more than three feet in height shall
not be planted, placed or maintained on a corner so as to restrict the vision
of drivers, persons on bicycles or pedestrians.
      b.   All signs, including temporary signs, shall be maintained in a neat
and presentable condition and, in the event their use shall cease, they shall
be promptly removed and the surrounding area restored to a condition free from
refuse and trash.
   P-1 PLANNED REDEVELOPMENT
   1.   Purpose. This special district is intended to encourage, promote and
facilitate residential redevelopment within older areas and neighborhoods of
the developed community. Use of this district shall be limited to areas
delineated for coordinated redevelopment efforts by the local governing body.
In order to accommodate such efforts, the primary emphasis on overall land use
comparability, parking and access provisions, landscaping and building
location. The minimum size land tract for which this district may be used is
one acre; the maximum size land tract for this district’s use is ten acres.
   2.   Procedures. The municipal governing body is hereby authorized to rezone
land to the P-1 Planned Redevelopment District, if the procedures outlined in
§ 15-38 are followed and the special requirements provisions in this district
are met.
   3.   Special requirements. Use of the P-1 Planned Redevelopment District,
may be authorized when all of the following provisions are complied with.
      a.   Minimum site size. The minimum size of the site upon which a planned
redevelopment project may be located shall be not less than one acre.
      b.   Maximum site size. The maximum size of the site upon which a planned
redevelopment project may be located shall be not more than ten acres.
      c.   Neighborhood redevelopment plan. Before any rezoning effort can be
initiated (by the private or public sectors), the City Council must prepare and
officially adopt a “Neighborhood Redevelopment Plan” for the area of the
community for which the rezoning is sought. This plan shall include studies of
the area’s existing situation, problems and potential, and shall provide
detailed land use, circulation, utility, facility, housing, recreation and
natural features studies as the bases for planned redevelopment strategies,
proposals and projects for the area. Funding sources, both public and private,
are to be identified and explained within the plan. The plan shall be designed
to eliminate land use problems which contribute to neighborhood deterioration,
improve the effective and efficient use of neighborhood traffic ways, utilities
and recreation areas, eliminate drainage problems and promote housing
redevelopment and rehabilitation efforts in the area. Implementation of the
redevelopment plan shall be carried out by the municipality or under the direct
supervision of the municipality.
      d.   Lot requirements. Minimum lot size, width, height and setback
requirements shall be the same as in the R-3 Mixed Residential District; the
Planning Commission may, however, recommend to the City Board of Trustees that
these requirements be waived if the redevelopment plan includes viable
proposals for clustered dwelling units or other innovative housing types.
      e.   Off-street parking. Off-street parking requirements shall be the
same as for uses permitted in residential districts, except that they may be
met by the use of common parking facilities.
      f.   Redevelopment plan amendments. Any significant amendment or change
to the adopted neighborhood redevelopment plan must be reviewed by the City
Council and formally adopted by said governing body. Formal amendments shall be
required before any changes are made during the implementation of the plan.
      g.   Time limit. There shall be no time limit placed upon the initiation
of the redevelopment proposals for land rezoned for the P-1 Planned
Redevelopment District.
      h.   Subdivision regulations. If replatting of lots, blocks or any
easements is required by the neighborhood redevelopment plan, or if street or
alley vacations are involved in the redevelopment program, the requirements of
any existing and future subdivision regulations adopted by the municipality
shall be in effect, subsequent to the final approval of the rezoning request.
   P-2 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
   1.   Purpose. This special district is intended to provide for planned,
unified development incorporating a single type or a variety of residential and
related uses. Such developments may consist of individual lots or common
building sites, but it is not the purpose of the district to allow different
uses or a greater dwelling unit density than would be allowed in the otherwise
applicable residential district. Use of the Planned Unit Development District
is primarily to allow flexible design while maintaining consistency with the
community’s comprehensive plan.
   2.   Procedures. The municipal governing body is hereby authorized to rezone
land for use as a planned unit development, if the following procedures (and
related standards) are met:
      a.   Application for rezoning of land to the P-2 Planned Unit Development
District, shall be submitted in accordance with the procedures set forth in
§ 15-38.
      b.   Prior to submitting its recommendation to the City Council, the
Planning Commission shall review the rezoning proposal using the following
criteria:
         (1)   Consistency with the community’s comprehensive plan;
         (2)   Compatibility of the proposal with existing and future
development in adjacent areas; and
         (3)   Compliance with the provisions and standards included in the
special requirements section for this district.
   3.   Special requirements. Use of the P-2 Planned Unit Development District
may be authorized when all of the following provisions are complied with.
      a.   Minimum site size. The minimum size of the site upon which a
residential planned unit development may be located shall be not less than ten
acres.
      b.   Design characteristics. The proposed development shall be planned
and designed as a unified residential area, compatible with existing and
projected uses in the surrounding areas and considerate of existing vegetation,
soils, topography and drainage ways. The development shall encourage efficiency
in the street and utility networks and extensive and creative use of open
spaces through flexible design standards. All uses must be “permitted uses”
(i.e., principal uses, accessory uses or uses permitted on review) in
residential zoning districts. Overall dwelling unit density of the proposal
development shall not exceed the density which would be attained if the same
area were to be developed using a minimum lot area of 6,500 square feet.
      c.   Development plan. The applicant shall submit a development plan in
support of his or her rezoning application for the use of the P-2 Planned Unit
Development District, which plan shall include total acreage, structure
locations, sizes, elevations and floor plans, driveway and parking areas and
dimensions, lot and yard areas and dimensions, a drainage plan, open space and
recreation areas and overall dwelling unit density. Water and sewer plans shall
also be provided, indicating the overall requirements of the development for
appropriate linkage to the municipal water and sewer systems. The development
plan may provide for staged development of the project and shall so indicate on
the plan.
      d.   Lot requirements. There shall be no minimum lot size, width, height
or setback requirements within the P-2 Planned Unit Development District.
      e.   Off-street parking. Off-street parking requirements shall be the
same as for permitted uses in residential districts, except that they may be
met by the use of common parking facilities.
      f.   Plan changes. Any deviation from the approved plan shall constitute
a violation of the rezoning and must be re-submitted for review following the
same procedures required for the original plan.
      g.   Time limit. Construction of the development shall be started within
two years of the date of plan approval by the City Council. Failure to begin
within the said two years shall void the development plan and shall cause the
land to revert to the zoning district which existed immediately preceding the
last rezoning.
      h.   Homes association. If other satisfactory arrangements for improving,
operating and maintaining streets, common parking and open space areas, drives,
service areas and utilities have not been made with the municipality, a homes
association shall be created, in accordance with accepted procedures and
financial requirements.
      i.   Subdivision regulations. The requirements of any existing and future
subdivision regulations adopted by the municipality shall be met by the
applicant for a planned unit development subsequent to the approval of said
applicant’s rezoning request. This shall include the preparation and approval
of preliminary and final plats in developments meeting the definition of a
“subdivision” according to said subdivision regulations.
   C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL
   1.   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for the normal range of
commercial services within the community in such a manner that the district
will accommodate both quick-stop and longer visit shopping, as well as provide
for additional retail, cultural and entertainment trade. Additionally, district
regulations are intended to minimize traffic congestion and noise, provide
adequate and controlled parking and expansion area, allow safe pedestrian
movement, minimize adverse impacts on residential areas, encourage improved
commercial site design and layout, promote the re-use and development of
existing commercial structures, encourage improved visual quality in commercial
development and promote the location of compatible office uses within suitable
commercial areas.
   2.   Parking.
C-1 General Commercial
 Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
C-1 General Commercial
   Permitted Principal Uses and          Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
   Structures
a. Automotive display, sales, service    1 space for every 300 square feet of
   and repair                            sales, service or office floor area
b. Farm implement display, sales,        1 space for each employee plus 1 space
   service and repair                    for each vehicle used by the industry
   Boats, motors, travel trailers and    1 space for each employee plus 1 space
c. mobile home display, sales, service   for each vehicle used by the industry
   and repair
d. Restaurant, night club, café or      1 space for every 10 square feet of
   tavern                                floor area
                                         Storage lanes outside of ticket booth
e. Drive-in theater                      to accommodate 10% of the theater
                                         capacity
f. Hotels and motels                     1 space per unit
g. Clubs and lodges                      1 space per unit
h. Dwelling unit above a store or shop   1 space per unit
i. Regular or traditional grocery stores 1 space for every 150 square feet of
   or markets                            floor area
j. Quick-stop type grocery stores        1 space for every employee, plus 3
                                         spaces
k. Personal services                     1 space for each employee plus 6
                                         spaces
l. Business and professional offices and 1 space for each employee plus 6
   studios                               spaces
m. Medical, dental, chiropractic clinics 1 space for each employee plus 6
                                         spaces
   Public buildings and utilities (but   1 space for each employee plus 6
n. not including storage or maintenance  spaces
   yards or buildings)
o. General sales, service and repair     1 space for each employee plus 6
   shops                                 spaces
p. Public garages, storage garages and   Not applicable
   parking lots
                                         1 space for each employee, plus 1
q. Commercial amusements                 space for each 100 square feet of
                                         sales, display, office or amusement
                                         area
                                         1 space for each employee, plus 1
r. Wholesale display and salesrooms      space for each 100 square feet of
                                         sales, display, office or amusement
                                         area
   Principal uses and structures, except
   for Single-Family residential,
   permitted in the R-2 Single Family
s. Residential and R-3 Mixed Residential
   District; provided that requirements
   and restrictions for the applicable
   Residential District are complied
   with
   For all uses not covered in
   subsections 2.a. through 2.s. above,
   the Planning Commission shall make a
   determination of the parking demand
t. to be created by the proposed use,
   and the amounts of parking thus
   determined shall be the off-street
   parking requirement for the permitted
   use
 
   3.   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Subject to the provisions of
this and other municipal ordinances, the following accessory uses and
structures are permitted in the C-1 General Commercial District: uses and
structures (including storage warehouses) clearly incidental and necessary to
the permitted principal uses of structures in this district.
   4.   Uses and structures permitted on review. Subject to the requirements of
Article III of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit the
following uses and structures on review:
      a.   Public and private utility or contractor equipment and material
storage and maintenance yards or buildings; provided that any stored material
or equipment shall be within a building or enclosed by a six-foot high fence or
suitable landscaping to screen the materials or equipment from the view of
adjacent public streets, parks, recreation areas and residential properties;
and
      b.   Principal uses and structures permitted in the R-2 Single-Family
Residential and R-3 Mixed Residential Districts; provided that:
         (1)   Each request for a use permitted on review shall be for one
principal structure, lot, building or use only; and
         (2)   Minimum requirements for off-street parking, yard setbacks, lot
area and width, and maximum height restrictions for the applicable residential
district are complied with.
      c.   Miniwarehouses, as defined in the zoning regulations for I-
1 Industrial subsection 4.g. of permitted principal uses and structures in the
Industrial District zoning classification.
 
C-1 General Commercial
Minimum                                                                                   Maximum
Lot Area   Minimum Required Front, Side and Rear Yard Setbacks                            Height
and Width
                                                                                          4
Commercial Commercial Uses:                                                               stories
Uses:                                                                                     or 50
                                                                                          feet
No minimum (a)   Where apartments are above a store or shop, a rear yard setback of 20
lot area   feet shall be provided, and where adjacent to a residential district, a front
and width  or side yard setback of 10 feet and a rear yard setback of 20 feet shall be
           provided;
           (b)   All buildings shall sit back from the right-of-way line of a major
           arterial system or a section line road or county highway a minimum of 25 feet
           from the right-of-way line or 75 feet from the centerline of the right-of-way
           easement, whichever is greater; and
           (c)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall be
           complied with on both streets
 
   5.   Special requirements.
      a.   Advertising signs, billboards and trade, business or industry
identification signs, related to the principal structure or use, shall not:
         (1)   Project above the height of the building; or
         (2)   Be located in, overhang or project into a residential yard.
      b.   Lighted signs shall be arranged so that there will be no annoying
glare directed or reflected toward residential buildings in a residential
district;
      c.   All signs and billboards, including temporary signs, shall be
maintained in a neat and presentable condition; in the event their use shall
cease, they shall be promptly removed and the surrounding area restored to a
condition free from refuse and rubbish;
      d.   All parking spaces required under the provisions of this district,
excluding all religious and non-profit entities, shall be pavement and
maintained in a manner such so that no dust will result from continued use.
Commercial parking lots built of asphalt and commercial parking lots built of
concrete shall be built in accordance with the specifications set forth on
Exhibit “A” which is attached hereto, and incorporated herein by referenced;
      e.   Driveway requirements for driveways in Commercial District C-1 shall
be as set forth in Figures 1, 2, 3 and 4 which are attached hereto, and
incorporated herein by reference.
   Exhibit “A”
   Commercial Parking Lot Design (Asphalt)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1685.png]
   Commercial Parking Lot Concrete Design
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1687.png]
   Figure 1: Typical Detail
   Parcels Using Two or More Driveways
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1689.png]
   Figure 2: Typical Detail
   Parcels Limited to One Driveway
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1691.png]
   Figure 3: Typical Details of Curb Radii
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1693.png]
   Figure 4: Driveway Requirements Commercial District C-1 
Frontage Max. No. Curb Min. and Max. Widths Max. No. Curb Min and Widths
         Openings                           Openings
Frontage          Max. No. Curb Min. and Max. Max. No. Curb  Min and Widths
                  Openings      Widths        Openings
60 feet or less   1             10 feet to 22 1              25 feet to 35 feet
                                feet
61 feet to 70     2             10 feet to 38 1              25 feet to 35 feet
feet                            feet
71 feet to 80     2             10 feet to 38 1              25 feet to 35 feet
feet                            feet
81 feet to 90     2             10 feet to 38 1              25 feet to 35 feet
feet                            feet
91 feet to 100    2             10 feet to 38 1              25 feet to 35 feet
feet                            feet
101 feet to 300   2             10 feet to 38 2              20 feet to 35 feet
feet                            feet
301 feet to 700   3             10 feet to 38 2              20 feet to 35 feet
feet                            feet
701 feet to 1,400 4             10 feet to 38 4              20 feet to 35 feet
feet                            feet
1,401 feet and    4             10 feet to 38 1/350 feet of  20 feet to 35 feet
over                            feet          major fraction
 
   6.   Landscaping and screening.
      a.   Whenever a C-1 (General Commercial District) interior, side, or rear
district line abuts a residential zoning district, the commercial activity,
including accessory uses, shall be screened by a opaque ornamental fence or
wall not less than six feet not more than eight feet high. The screening shall
be well maintained.
      b.   When an alley is located between a C-1 General Commercial District
and a residential district, screening may be place on the residential zoned
side of an alley abutting the C-1 District, to fulfill the above requirement,
provided written permission is obtained from the adjacent residential zoned
property owner. The written permission shall be officially recorded and
submitted with the building permit application. If written permission cannot be
obtained from the adjacent residential zoned property owner, the screening
requirement shall be located on the commercial zoned property. The screening or
fencing shall not be located on a dedicated alley.
      c.   Screening fences or walls as required shall not display advertising
or signs thereon.
      d.   Requirements newly established by this section shall not create a
legal, nonconforming use for screening violations of provisions of this code.
   7.   Designated Downtown Business District.
      a.   There shall be an area within the city designated as the Downtown
Business District. The construction of new and remodel of existing buildings
shall be exempt from the off-street parking requirement.
      b.   The designated Downtown Business District, shall be the south half
of Blocks 4 and 5, all Blocks 10, 11, 20 and 21 all a part of the South Cache
original townsite, according to the recorded plat thereof.
   C-2 SPECIAL COMMERCIAL
   1.   Purpose. This special district is intended to encourage and facilitate
the design of new, large-scale single-ownership developments, and the expansion
of existing such developments, where entertainment, cultural, recreational,
open space and commercial activities are combined in a planned, creative and
unified manner. Planned use of large open space or natural areas is the primary
objective of this district, with secondary emphasis on compatible parking and
access provisions, landscaping, design flexibility and overall land use
compatibility. The minimum size land tract for which this district may be used
is five acres. This district shall not be used for shopping center development
of any type.
   2.   Procedures. The municipal governing body may zone or rezone additional
land as C-2 Special Commercial District, according to the following procedures:
      a.   Application for rezoning of land to the C-2 Special Commercial
District, shall be submitted in accordance with the procedures set forth in
§ 15-38; and
      b.   Prior to submitting its recommendation to the City Council, the
Planning Commission shall review the rezoning proposal using the following
criteria:
         (1)   Consistency with the community’s comprehensive plan;
         (2)   Compatibility of the proposal with existing and projected
development in adjacent areas; and
         (3)   Compliance with the provisions and standards included in the
“Special Requirements” section for this district.
   3.   Special requirements. Land may be zoned or rezoned as C-2 Special
Commercial District only when the following conditions and standards are met.
      a.   Minimum site size. The minimum size of the site upon which a
development under the provisions of this district may be allowed shall be not
less than five acres.
      b.   Design characteristics. The proposed development shall be planned
and designed as a unified area, compatible with surrounding uses (both natural
and human-made) and considerate of existing vegetation, soils, topography and
drainageway. The proposal must promote creative and extensive use of natural
open spaces and include landscaping proposals. Projected structural and street
coverage shall not exceed 50% of the total land area.
      c.   Development plan. The applicant shall submit a formal development
plan, in support of his or her rezoning application, which shall include total
acreage, proposed structure locations, sizes, elevations, uses and floor plans,
parking area locations and dimensions, a drainage plan, a landscaping plan and
open space and recreation area locations. Water and sewer plans shall also be
provided, indicating the overall water and sewer requirements of the
development and the proposed means of accommodating these needs. The
development plan may provide for staged development of the project and, if so,
the same shall be indicated on the plan.
      d.   Lot requirements. If any lots are platted for sale to other
individuals, the minimum dimensions shall be the same as for the same use in
the appropriate zoning district.
      e.   Off-street parking. Off-street parking requirements shall be
initially based on the requirements for similar uses in other zoning districts;
however, the Planning Commission may recommend to the City Council that more or
less parking area be provided, based upon the special or unique character or
nature of the project proposal.
      f.   Plan changes. Any deviation from the approved development plan shall
constitute a violation of the rezoning and must be re-submitted for review,
following the same procedures required for the original plan.
      g.   Time limit. Construction of the development shall be started within
five years of the date of plan approval by the City Council. Failure to begin
within said five years shall void the development plan and shall cause the land
to revert to the zoning district which existed immediately prior to the last
rezoning.
      h.   Subdivision regulations. The requirements of any existing and future
subdivision regulations adopted by the municipality must be met by the
applicant for a development under this zoning district (subsequent to the final
approval of said applicant’s rezoning request) if the proposal contains one or
more lots which are to be sold to other individuals.
   C-3 PLANNED COMMERCIAL
   1.   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for the needs of mobile
residential homes/travel trailers (or motor homes to be placed in separate
parks or camps, but not mixed with mobile residential homes/travel trailers).
This district is to be located where there is a demonstrated need for such
uses, where such uses will be convenient to potential users, and with careful
consideration for the effects of such uses upon surrounding uses, and the
effects upon the traffic-carrying capacities of nearby streets and roads.
   2.   Permitted principal uses and structures.
      a.   Mobile homes parks. Provided that:
         (1)   The installation has a water supply and sanitary sewage
collection and treatment system approved by the State Department of Health;
         (2)   The park provides a minimum area of 3,500 square feet for each
mobile home space;
         (3)   The park has a maximum density of ten mobile homes per acres;
         (4)   There is a minimum of one off-street parking space on each
mobile home site, plus at least ten additional off-street parking spaces to
serve the park as a whole;
         (5)   No mobile home shall be closer than 25 feet to a property line
of the park;
         (6)   No mobile homes shall be closer than 20 feet to any other mobile
home; and
         (7)   The park must comply with provisions contained in all pertinent
municipal codes, ordinances, and subdivision regulations.
      b.   Travel trailer parks or camps (or motor homes). Provided that such
uses are constructed in accordance with all adopted municipal codes and
ordinances relating thereto.
         (1)   Thirty days stay, extension upon approval.
         (2)   Travel trailers and RVs are not to be made into permanent
structures. No decks, porches, or storage structures.
         (3)   Campfires must be constructed in a fire ring or fire pit. No
fire is to be left unattended. During burn bans, all campfires may be
prohibited.
         (4)   Screening will be required along the street frontage, privacy-
type fence shall be constructed. The fence shall be a minimum of six feet tall,
measured from ground level.
         (5)   Tent camping shall be allowed in a designated tent campsite.
Tent campsite shall be surround by a privacy fence. Tent camping shall be
allowed for no more than a ten day stay.
   I-1 INDUSTRIAL
   1.   Purpose. This district is intended to accommodate industrial
development within the community which will not adversely affect surrounding or
area neighborhoods. Appropriate standards will ensure that suitable land is
selected for industrial purposes and that the resulting effects will not be
offensive to the community.
   2.   Parking.
I-1 Industrial
 Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Required Off-street Parking
I-1 Industrial
   Permitted Principal Uses and           Minimum Required Off-street Parking
   Structures
   Uses, except residential uses,         Same as in the C-1 General Commercial
a. permitted in the C-1 General           District
   Commercial District
   Manufacturing and processing uses that
   are contained within a building and    1 space for every 2 employees, plus 1
b. have no exterior storage create no     space for each vehicle used by the
   offensive noise, dust, odor,           industry
   vibrations or create no electrical
   interference.
c. Animal hospital or kennel              1 space for every 200 square feet of
                                          sales, service or office floor area
   Wholesaling and warehousing (but not   1 space for each employee, plus 1
d. including the bulk storage of liquid   space for each vehicle used by the
   fertilizer or petroleum products under industry
   pressure)
   Farm implement display, sales, service 1 space for each employee, plus 1
e. and repair                             space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
   Lumber yard and building material      1 space for each employee, plus 1
f. sales and storage.                     space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
                                          1 space for each employee, plus 1
g. Truck and freight terminal             space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
   Truck display, sales, repair and       1 space for each employee, plus 1
h. storage                                space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
                                          1 space for each employee, plus 1
i. Grain storage bins                     space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry.
                                          1 space for each employee, plus 1
j. Grain elevator and feed mill           space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
                                          1 space for each employee, plus 1
k. Welding and repair shop                space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
                                          1 space for each employee, plus 1
l. Tool, die, gauge and machine shops     space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
   Railroads and public utilities         1 space for each employee, plus 1
m. (including storage and maintenance     space for each vehicle used by the
   yards)                                 industry
                                          1 space for each employee, plus 1
n. Automobile paint and body shops        space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
   Processing and handling of cheese,     1 space for each employee, plus 1
p. butter and other milk products         space for each vehicle used by the
                                          industry
q. Miniwarehouses
                                          All uses shall provide at least 1
r. All uses (above)                       loading space for each 10,000 square
                                          feet of floor area
   For all uses not covered in
   subsections 2.a. through 2.r. above,
   the Planning Commission shall make a
s. determination of the parking demand to
   be created by the proposed use, and
   the amounts of parking thus determined
   shall be the off-street parking
   requirement for the permitted use
 
   3.   Accessory uses and structures. Subject to the provisions of this and
other municipal ordinances, the following accessory uses and structures are
permitted in the I-1 Industrial District:
      a.   Accessory uses and structures, except residential accessory uses and
structures, permitted in the C-1 General Commercial District;
      b.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work;
provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the
construction work;
      c.   Dwelling units for watchmen or caretakers employed on the premises;
provided that an open yard of at least 2,400 square feet is reserved and
maintained for use by the occupants; and
      d.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses and structures in this district.
   4.   Uses and structures permitted on review. Subject to the requirements of
Article III of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit the
following uses and structures on review:
      a.   Stockyards, loading pens, rendering plans, sale barns and yards,
buying stations, commercial poultry-raising yards or structures and commercial
feedlots; provided that:
         (1)   Such industry is not located closer than one-fourth mile to any
dwelling unit (other than that of the owner or operator), park, school, church
or place of public assembly;
         (2)   Provisions for drainage, waste disposal and fly control are
made, subject to the approval of the local or county health officer;
         (3)   Such industry is located so that the prevailing winds will not
cause excessive dust or odor to create a nuisance for developed properties
within the community; and
         (4)   One parking space for each employee, plus one space for each
vehicle used by the industry be provided.
      b.   Sanitary landfill or waste disposal area; provided that:
         (1)   Refuse shall be covered with dirt at least daily;
         (2)   No nuisance due to smoke, odor or blowing debris shall be
created;
         (3)   An access road, having at least a graveled surface, shall be
provided;
         (4)   At least five parking spaces shall be provided;
         (5)   The site shall be restored to a condition compatible with the
surrounding area upon conclusion of the operation; and
         (6)   No landfill or waste disposal area shall be located closer than
one-fourth mile to any residential dwelling, park, school or place of public
assembly.
      c.   Junkyards and automobile wrecking and salvage yards, on sites of two
acres or more; provided that:
         (1)   A suitable front yard area be maintained as an open space, free
of weeds and debris;
         (2)   The site be enclosed by suitable landscaping or a six-foot high
fence to screen the operation from the view of adjacent public streets, parks,
recreation areas and residential properties; and
         (3)   A minimum of one parking space for each employee, plus one space
for each vehicle used by the facility be provided.
      d.   Plants for the manufacture and central mixing and proportioning of
concrete and concrete products, the manufacture and blending of fertilizer and
the fabrication of iron and steel; provided that:
         (1)   Such use is not located closer than 500 feet to any existing
residential dwelling unit, park, church, school or other place of public
assembly;
         (2)   Such use is located so that prevailing winds will not cause
dust, smoke or odors to create a nuisance for developed properties in the
community;
         (3)   At least one loading space shall be provided for each 10,000
square feet of plant floor area; and
         (4)   One parking space for each employee, plus one space for each
vehicle used by the industry be provided.
      e.   Bulk storage of liquid fertilizer and petroleum products under
pressure; provided that:
         (1)   Such uses shall not be located within 500 feet of any existing
residential dwelling, park, school, church or other place of public assembly;
         (2)   Such uses shall be located so that prevailing winds will not
cause fumes, odors or gases to be carried toward developed properties within
the community; and
         (3)   One parking space for each vehicle or trailer used by the
industry be provided.
      f.   Acid or explosives manufacturing plant; provided that:
         (1)   Particular attentions is given to plant locations which avoid
the dangers listed above, subsection 4.e.(3), and protect the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the community; and
         (2)   Adequate parking space, as determined by special review of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, is provided to serve such facilities.
      g.   Miniwarehouses are permitted principal uses and structures.
         (1)   For the purpose of this subsection 4.g., the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            MINIWAREHOUSES. Structures which are divided into compartments of
not to exceed 500 square feet, each of which is available solely to a lessee
only for the storage of personal property.
         (2)   All lots and driveways designated for the parking and use of
vehicles for the purpose of loading, unloading, ingress and egress to
miniwarehouses shall be paved with a sealed surface pavement, and shall be
maintained in such a manner that no dust will be produced by use.
         (3)   There shall be no outside storage of personal property in
miniwarehouse locations.
         (4)   There shall not be permitted in any miniwarehouses any wholesale
or retail sales activities, fabrication business, repair facilities or other
commercial or on-commercial activity other than the storage of personal
property, except that an office for the sole purpose of the management of the
miniwarehouses units may be established. Off-street parking shall be required
in a suitable location for the office facility in addition to the parking
requirements for use of the miniwarehouses;
         (5)   There shall be no separate utility connections or meters
authorized for individual compartments within the miniwarehouses units. This
restriction shall not prohibit the owner or builder of the miniwarehouses from
providing adequate electrical current for lighting, and a convenient outlet to
each miniwarehouse unit, provided, that such service is regulated a single
meter for the entire miniwarehouse complex.
         (6)   Resident manager’s quarters may be constructed on-site, provided
that such quarters shall meet all applicable regulations relating to
residential occupancy, and shall be compatible with the architectural design of
the miniwarehouses. Additionally, such quarters shall be occupied only by the
resident manager.
 
I-1 Industrial
Minimum Lot Area and Width Minimum Required Front, Side and Rear Maximum Height
                           Yard Setbacks
                           Front - 25 feet
None                       Rear - 25 feet                        100 feet
                           Side - 20 feet
                           Side street corner lot - 25 feet
 
   5.   Special requirements.
      a.   No raw material, finished product or waste product which may cause
dust or odor which would adversely affect adjoining properties shall be stored
outside a building, nor shall any other debris or waste product be permitted to
accumulate on the site.
      b.   All signs, including temporary ones, shall be maintained in a neat
and presentable condition; in the event that they shall become illegible or
their use shall cease, they shall be promptly removed and the area occupied
restored to a condition free from refuse and debris.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 6-11-2024)
§ 15-38 ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Enforcement of zoning regulations; building permit.
      a.   These zoning regulations shall be enforced by the Municipal Building
Official, or his or her designated representative (acting at the direction of
the City Council), who shall review all building permit applications for
compliance with zoning ordinance provisions.
      b.   It shall be a violation of these regulations for any person to
change or permit a change in the use of land, buildings or structures, or to
erect, alter, move or improve any building or structure, until a building
permit has been obtained from the office of the City Clerk, under the terms set
forth in the code of ordinances of the city and the National Building Code
adopted by the city.
      c.   The requirement for a building permit shall not, however, apply to
the use or construction of farm buildings for agricultural purposes or the
planting of agricultural crops.
   2.   Uses and structures permitted on review. Certain uses and structures
listed in each zoning district as “uses and structures permitted on review”
shall be considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council
under the following procedures.
      a.   An application for a “use permitted on review” shall be filed with
the Planning Commission, through the office of the City Clerk.
      b.   The fee for filing such application shall cover the costs related to
such application (including the costs of publication and mailing of notice for
the public hearing), as determined by the City Clerk and Building Official upon
immediate review of the application, and shall be payable to the City Clerk
upon the filing of said application. The fee schedule shall be approved by
motion of the City Council prior to its initial use by the City Clerk;
subsequent changes in the fee schedule due to increases in mailing or
publication costs, may be made automatically by the City Clerk.
      c.   This application shall contain the location and intended use of the
site, the names of all property owners and the types of existing land uses
within 300 feet of the site and any other pertinent material required by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      d.   The City Clerk shall notify the Building Official and the
Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission of the application, and cause
the application to be placed on the agenda for the next scheduled meeting of
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      e.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold one or more public
hearings thereon, giving adequate and legal notice to all adjacent property
owners and community residents.
      f.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, within 45 days of the date
of application, transmit to the City Council its report as to the effect of
such proposed structure or use upon the character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, public utilities and other matters pertaining to the general
welfare, as well as the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission
concerning the approval or denial of the application. Persons in attendance at
the Commission’s public hearing(s) shall be informed at that time of the
probable meeting date at which the City Council will consider the approval or
denial of the application. The City Council may subsequently authorize or deny
the issuance of a building permit for the use or structure requested in the
application.
   3.   Rezoning or zoning ordinance amendment applications.
      a.   Any person, firm or corporation having a proprietary interest in any
property may petition the City Council for a change or amendment to the
provisions of the zoning ordinance by obtaining, filling out and filing a
formal application for rezoning or zoning ordinance amendment with the City
Clerk.
      b.   The fee for filing such application shall include the notice and
publication costs of such application, as determined by the appropriate fee
schedule approved by the City Council, and shall be payable to the City Clerk
upon the filing of said application.
      c.   The City Clerk shall notify the Building Official and the
Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission and cause said application to
be placed on the agenda for the next scheduled meeting of the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
      d.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider any rezoning
ordinance amendment application at a regular, public meeting, prior to making
and submitting recommendations to the City Council.
      e.   No rezoning, amendment, change or supplement shall become effective
until a public hearing shall have been held at which parties in interest and
citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      f.   Notice of public hearing (to include the time and place of such
hearing) shall be given at least 20 days prior to such hearing by publication
in the official newspaper of the city, and in addition to publication, notice
shall also be given by mailing written notice signed by the Secretary of the
Planning and Zoning Commission to all owners of property within a 300-foot
radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property. Such notice shall be
mailed not less than 20 days before the date set for hearing and the notice
shall contain:
         (1)   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the city;
         (2)   Present zoning classification of the property and the
classification sought by the applicant; and
         (3)   Date, time and place of public hearing.
      g.   Public hearings shall be held by the City Council.
      h.   In the event of a protest against a proposed rezoning or request for
amendment or supplement, filed more than three days prior to said public
hearing by the owners of 20% or more of the area of the lots included in such
proposed change, or by the owners of 50% or more of the area of the lots
immediately abutting any side of the property included in such proposed change,
or separated therefrom only by an alley or street less than 300 feet wide, such
amendment shall not be effective except by the favorable vote of four-fifths of
the members of the City Council.
      i.   The City Council or the Planning and Zoning Commission may, from
time to time, initiate studies or proposals for changes or amendments to the
zoning ordinance, provided that they are in the public interest, and provided
also that, before taking action on any such study or proposal, the City Council
shall have submitted the same to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
recommendations.
      j.   All amendments, changes, supplements or rezonings shall become final
and effective upon passage and publication of an ordinance indicating said
amendment, change, supplement or rezoning.
   4.   Use of the provisions of any of the special districts. The City
Council, acting subsequent to review and recommendation by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, is hereby authorized to use the provisions of any of the
special districts (P-1 Planned Redevelopment District; P-2 Planned Unit
Development District; and C-2 Special Commercial District) provided in this
chapter, subject to the conditions listed below. The primary purpose for using
such districts shall always be to provide for, and encourage, flexibility in
the design and development of structures and subdivision in order to promote
the most appropriate use of land, to facilitate the adequate, efficient and
economical provision of streets and utilities, and to preserve the natural and
scenic qualities of open lands. The conditions under which applications for
such projects will be considered are as follows:
      a.   The owner-developer make written application to the Planning and
Zoning Commission, through the City Council for the use of a special district;
      b.   The Planning and Zoning Commission determines that such application
would serve to benefit the city;
      c.   Where such procedure shall involve lands zoned for residential
purposes, its application shall result in a permitted number of dwelling units
which shall in no case exceed the number which could be permitted, in the
Planning, and Zoning Commission’s judgment, if the land were subdivided into
lots conforming to the minimum lot size and density requirements of the zoning
ordinance applicable to the district(s) in which such land is situated.
      d.   The proposed site plan, including areas within which structures may
be located, the height and spacing of buildings, open spaces and their
landscaping, off-street open and enclosed parking spaces, and streets,
driveways and all other physical features as shown on said plan or otherwise
described, accompanied by a statement setting forth the nature of such
modifications, changes or supplementations of existing zoning provisions as are
not shown on said site plan, shall be subject to review and public hearing by
the Planning and Zoning Commission in the same manner as set forth in this
section.
      e.   Where a new or unlisted use shall develop, the application shall
contain a statement of facts listing the nature of the use, the amount of
activity involved, type of product involved (if any), storage requirements,
anticipated employment, transportation requirements (if any), the amount of
noise, odor, fumes, dust, toxic material or vibration likely to be generated
and the general requirements for public utilities.
   5.   Nonconforming uses and structures.
      a.   A nonconforming use or structure shall exist when the following
conditions are present:
         (1)   When a use does not conform to the regulations prescribed in the
zoning district in which it is located and was in existence and lawfully
operating prior to the effective date of this zoning chapter, or any amendment
thereto which creates nonconformity and where there has been no discontinuance
of the use or a period of time 90 days; or
         (2)   When, on the effective date of this chapter, or any subsequent
amendment which creates nonconformity, a structure was in existence and
lawfully constructed, and which structure does not conform to the regulations
herein prescribed for the zoning district in which it is located.
      b.   If a structure occupied by a nonconforming use is destroyed by fire,
the elements or other cause (in whole or part), reconstruction will be
permitted but the size or function of the nonconforming use cannot be expanded
so as to create a greater degree of nonconformity than previously existed.
      c.   The failure of an existing structure to comply with the area
standards for yards, lot area, open space coverage, height or vehicle parking
shall be interpreted as a nonconformity of structure, but such nonconformity
shall not be a basis for refusal of a permit to alter, improve or reconstruct
such existing structure so long as such alteration, improvement or
reconstruction does not increase the degree of nonconformity existing prior to
such action.
   6.   Violations and penalties. A violation of this section shall be deemed
an offense and shall be punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who
violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall
be fined not more than $35 for each offense. Each day upon which a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 15-39 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   Board of Adjustment created. There is hereby created within and for the
city a Zoning Board of Adjustment with the powers and duties as hereinafter set
forth.
   2.   Membership.
      a.   The Board of Adjustment shall be composed of five members, citizens
of the city, each appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council,
for a term of three years; provided that, however, for the first appointment
under the provisions of this chapter, one member shall be appointed for a term
of one year, two members shall be appointed for a term of two years and two
members shall be appointed for a term of three years. All appointments
hereafter shall be for a term of three years.
      b.   No more than three members of the Board of Adjustment may be
appointed from the membership of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      c.   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson from its
membership to serve for a term of two years.
   3.   Procedures. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the City Clerk and shall be a public record. The concurring vote of four
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of any administrative official, or to decide in favor
of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
ordinance, or to effect any variation in such ordinance.
   4.   Appeals to the Board.
      a.   Appeal to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the Building Official or City Council. Such appeal shall be
taken within 30 days from the date of the decision by filing with the City
Clerk a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and by paying a filing
fee of $5 at the office of the City Clerk at the time the notice is filed. The
City Clerk shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Clerk
certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have
been filed with him or her, that by reason or facts stated in the certificate,
a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record
on application and notice to the City Clerk and on the cause shown.
      b.   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of the appeal, giving public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   5.   Powers.
      a.   The Board of Adjustment shall have only the following powers:
         (1)   Powers relative to errors. To hear and decide appeals where it
is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official in the interpretation or
enforcement of this chapter;
         (2)   Powers relative to variances. Where, by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property at the time of
the original adoption of the regulations, or by reason of exceptional
topographical conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or
condition of a specific piece of property, the district application of this
chapter would result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties or to
exceptional and undue hardship upon the owner of such property, the Board is
hereby empowered to authorize, upon an appeal relating to such property, a
variation from such strict application so as to relieve such difficulties or
hardship, but may establish such requirements relative to such property as
would carry out the purpose and intent of this chapter; and
         (3)   Powers relative to exceptions. Upon appeal, the Board is hereby
empowered to permit the following exceptions:
            (a)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line
of a district divides a lot in single ownership as shown on record;
            (b)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the
zoning map fixing the several districts, which map is made a part of this
chapter; and
            (c)   To grant exceptions to off-street parking requirements when
it is determined the size and shape of the lot to be built on is such that off-
street parking provisions could not be complied with, and that the proposed use
will not create undue traffic congestion in the adjacent streets.
      b.   In exercising the above mentioned powers the Board may, in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the City
Clerk. In considering all appeals from rulings made under this chapter, the
Board shall, in making its findings on any specific case, determine the effect
of the proposed change upon the supply of light and air to adjacent property,
upon the congestion in the public streets, upon the public safety from fire and
other hazards, upon the established property values within the surrounding area
and upon other factors relating to the public health, safety, comfort, morals
and general welfare of the people of the city. Every ruling made upon any
appeal to the Board shall be accompanied by a written finding of fact based
upon the testimony received at the hearing afforded by the Board and shall
specify the reason for granting or denying the appeal.
   6.   Appeals.
      a.   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or order of
the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally, to the Board of Trustees of the city, or, at the option of the
person or persons making the appeal, directly to the District Court.
      b.   Notice of appeal to the City Council, if this option is selected by
the person making the appeal, shall be filed with the City Clerk and the Board
of Adjustment within ten days from the filing of the Board of Adjustment, which
notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. Upon the filing of such
notice, the City Clerk shall place the appeal on the agenda for the next,
regularly-scheduled meeting of the City Council, and shall also inform the
Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment of the date of such meeting.
      c.   If the option of appeal to the City Council is not selected, any
person or persons, jointly or severally, or any taxpayer, officer, department,
board or bureau of the city may appeal any action, decision, ruling, judgment
or order of the Board of Adjustment directly to the District Court, by filing
notice of appeal with the City Clerk and with the Board of Adjustment within
ten days from the filing of the decision of the Board of Adjustment, which
notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. Upon filing of the notice of
appeal as herein provided, the said Board shall forthwith transmit to the Court
Clerk of the county, the original or certified copy of the papers constituting
the record in the case, together with the order, decision or ruling of the
Board.
      d.   An appeal to the District Court from the Board of Adjustment stays
all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the
Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment, from which the appeal is taken,
certifies to the Court Clerk, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her
opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted to
the District Court upon application or notice to the administrative officer in
charge of the enforcement of the terms and provisions of this chapter, and upon
notice to the Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment for (from) which the
appeal is taken, and upon due cause being show, the court may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought up for review.
   7.   Notice of public hearing procedures.
      a.   Notice of public hearing before the Board of Adjustment shall
normally be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city, and by mailing written notice by the Acting Chairperson of the Board
of Adjustment to all owners of property within a 300-foot radius of the
exterior boundary of the subject property. Publication and mailing shall be
accomplished at least ten days prior to the hearing.
      b.   Said notice shall contain:
         (1)   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the city;
         (2)   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of
variance or exception requested; and
         (3)   The date, time and place of the hearing.
      c.   A copy of the published notice may be mailed in lieu of written
notice.
      d.   No notice of hearing shall be required on hearings involving minor
variances or exceptions. The Board of Adjustment shall set forth in its
statement of policy what constitutes a minor variance or exception.
§§ 15-40 THROUGH 15-59 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: SUBDIVISION OF LAND
§ 15-60 SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS.
   1.   All subdivision plats, or replats of land laid out in plats or lots,
and the streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated
to public or private use, located within the jurisdictional area of either the
Municipal or Regional Planning Commission, shall first be submitted to said
Planning Commission for its review.
   2.   If the subdivision plat or replat is located within the corporate
limits of the city, final approval, prior to the filing of said plat or replat
with the County Clerk, shall be obtained from the City Council.
   3.   If the subdivision plat or replat is located within the jurisdictional
area of the Regional Planning Commission, but outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city, approval of the Regional Planning Commission shall be
obtained prior to the filing of said plat or replat with the County Clerk.
   4.   In reviewing subdivision plats or replats, the Planning Commission and
the City Council shall utilize the definitions, procedures and design and
improvement standards in the subdivision regulations adopted by and for the
city or the appropriate jurisdictional area and entity.
§ 15-61 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations adopted by reference by Ord. 169 (December 7,
1992), and now in effect within the city shall continue in effect as fully and
completely as if set out in its entirety in this code of ordinances.
§§ 15-62 THROUGH 15-70 RESERVED FOR FIXTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
I: GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 15-71 CITATION AND AUTHORITY.
   1.   These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as
the “Subdivision Regulations of the City of Cache, Oklahoma”.
   2.   These regulations governing the subdivision and development of land
within the jurisdictional area of the Cache Regional/Municipal Planning
Commission have been prepared, adopted and enacted in accordance with, and
pursuant to the authority granted by 11 O.S. §§ 45-104, 46-103 and 46-104, and
subsequent amendments thereto.
§ 15-72 PURPOSES.
   These regulations are designed, intended, adopted and should be administered
for, the following purposes:
   1.   To protect and provide for the peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the present and future residents of the city;
   2.   To guide the future growth and development of the community, in
accordance with the implementation of the comprehensive plan for the city;
   3.   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air, privacy and fire
protection for current and future residents of the city;
   4.   To prevent overcrowding of the land and undue congestion of population;
   5.   To encourage orderly and beneficial development of all parts of the
community;
   6.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the community, as
well as the value of buildings and improvements upon the land;
   7.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, parks, schools and
other public requirements and facilities;
   8.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the community, through
proper location, width, design and construction of streets and other traffic
ways;
   9.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions, re-subdivisions, lot line adjustments and lot splits, in order to
further the orderly layout and use of land and the development of adequate,
accurate and accessible public records and monumenting of subdivided land;
   10.   To equitably distribute the costs involved in land subdivision;
   11.   To aid in the prevention of pollution of air, streams and other bodies
of water;
   12.   To safeguard the area’s water table;
   13.   To encourage the wise use and management of natural resources in order
to preserve the integrity, ecological stability and the beauty of the
community, as well as the value of the land;
   14.   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land;
   15.   To assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; and
   16.   To minimize flood losses resulting from periodic inundation through:
      a.   Restriction or prohibition of subdivision of lands for uses which
are dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood, or which, with
reasonably anticipated improvements, will cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
      b.   Requirements that each subdivision lot in an area vulnerable to
flooding be provided with a safe building site and with adequate access, and
that public utilities and facilities which serve such uses be installed with
protection against flood damage at the time of installation; and
      c.   Through protection of individuals from purchase of lands unsuitable
for intended purposes because of flood hazards, through the prohibition of
unprotected flood hazard lands subdivision, requirements for delineated flood
hazard areas on the final plat, and suitable uses provided for areas unsuitable
for residential development.
§ 15-73 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern the subdivision of land (as established by
§ 15-76 of this article) within the jurisdictional area of the Municipal/
Regional Planning Commission of the city.
§ 15-74 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   1.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of said city pursuant to the city’s comprehensive plan,
once prepared and adopted, for the orderly, planned, efficient and economical
development of said city.
   2.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood
or other menace. Land shall not be subdivided until available public facilities
and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for drainage, water,
sewerage and capital improvements such as schools, parks, recreation
facilities, transportation facilities and other related improvements.
   3.   Existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to, and be
properly related to, the proposals shown in the Cache, Oklahoma, comprehensive
plan, once prepared and adopted, and it is intended that these subdivision
regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the policies,
provisions and standards contained in the city’s Building and Housing Codes,
zoning ordinance, code of ordinances and comprehensive plan.
§ 15-75 OFFICIAL RECORDING.
   1.   No land shall be subdivided or a plat filed within the jurisdictional
area of the Municipal/Regional Planning Commission of the city until the
subdivider (or his or her agent) shall obtain the approval of said Planning
Commission and the City Council, for the preliminary plat and the final plat of
the proposed subdivision.
   2.   No plat or other land subdivision instrument shall be filed in the
office of the County Clerk until it shall have received approval, as
hereinabove required, consistent with current state law.
   3.   All plats of record (i.e., final plats) shall be filed within two years
of the date of final approval by the Municipal Planning Commission of the city
and no lots shall be recorded as transferred by the County Clerk regarding any
final plat, until such plat is filed, consistent with current state law.
   4.   Failure to record the plat within two years of said date of approval
shall void all approvals thereto received from the city.
§ 15-76 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations shall apply to the following forms of land subdivision and
development within the jurisdiction of the Cache Municipal Planning Commission:
   1.   The division of land or air space into two or more tracts, lots, sites
or parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, contains ten acres or less in
area;
   2.   The re-division of land, previously divided or platted, into tracts,
lots, sites or parcels, of ten acres or less in area;
   3.   The dedication, vacation or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land, regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies;
   4.   The dedication to the public, or vacation of, any street or alley
through any tract of land, regardless of the area involved;
   5.   Planned unit development or planned development (residential,
industrial or commercial), as defined in these subdivision regulations and the
city’s adopted zoning ordinance;
   6.   Any commercial shopping center or industrial park development which
fits the other jurisdictional provisions of these subdivision regulations;
   7.   Any tract, lot, site or parcel of land, regardless of size, which is to
be developed and on which exists, or will exist because of such contemplated
development, any topographic feature or improvement requiring the dedication or
reservation of any easement, public or private, under the provisions of these
subdivision regulations;
   8.   Any plat or part of a plat which is to be vacated by the owner of the
premises or tract of land; and
   9.   Lot splits and lot line adjustments, according to the provisions
contained hereinafter for exceptions to regulations.
§ 15-77 EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS.
   1.   Lot splits. Whenever there is a tract or previously subdivided parcel
of land, under single ownership, which is to be re-subdivided into three or
fewer lots, the proposed subdivision may be excepted from the procedural
requirements of these regulations (i.e., preliminary and final plats are not
required); however, this shall not constitute an exception from the design and
improvement requirements herein contained. These exceptions, or lot splits,
shall be permitted under the following provisions.
      a.   An accurate survey (in a final plat format) of the proposed tract,
and the re-subdivision thereof, prepared by a land surveyor registered in the
state, shall be submitted to the Planning Commission.
      b.   The Planning Commission shall review the proposed lot split to
ensure compliance with all design and improvement requirements of these
regulations.
      c.   Upon approval, the Planning Commission Chairperson shall certify the
survey as a final plat by signing said document.
      d.   Upon denial, the Planning Commission Chairperson shall submit the
reasons for denial, in writing, to the applicant.
      e.   Whenever a deviation is required from improvement standards, or a
street or other element is to be dedicated, the City Council shall have final
approval and acceptance rights; for all other lot splits, the action of the
Planning Commission shall be final, although the applicant may elect to appeal
to the City Council.
      f.   A tract of land which has been subject to lot splits over any period
of time involving more than five lots, shall not be allowed further use of the
lot split exception; said tract shall be subject to the procedures contained
herein for the platting of land.
   2.   Lot line adjustments. For the purpose of adjusting the size of building
sites, lot line adjustments to lines of platted lots shall also be excepted
from the procedural requirements of these regulations; however, it is not
intended that extensive replatting be accomplished under this exception. Said
lot line adjustments shall be subject to the following provisions.
      a.   No additional lot shall be created by any lot line adjustment.
      b.   No lot line adjustment shall be allowed unless all required
improvements are either completed and accepted by the city, or their
construction is secured under the applicable provisions of these regulations.
      c.   All proposed parcels or building sites involved in a lot line
adjustment shall abut on either an existing alley or adequate utility easement,
and on a publicly-dedicated street.
      d.   Unusable or land-locked parcels shall not be created as a result of
any lot line adjustment.
      e.   Lot line adjustment requests shall be reviewed, and approved or
denied by, the Planning Commission, with the right of appeal to the City
Council.
§ 15-78 VACATION OF PLATS.
   1.   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a written
instrument, of which a copy shall be attached to such plat, declaring the same
to be vacated, following court action, as required by state law.
   2.   Such an instrument of vacation shall be approved by the Planning
Commission in like manner as plats of subdivisions. The City Council may reject
any such instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its
public uses, improvements, streets or alleys.
   3.   Such an instrument of vacation shall be executed, acknowledged or
approved, and recorded or filed, in like manner as plats of subdivisions; being
duly recorded or filed, this shall operate to destroy the force and effect of
the recording of the plat so vacated and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys, public grounds and all dedications laid out or described in
such plat.
   4.   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided, by all of the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution of
such writing, subject to court action as required by applicable state law.
§ 15-79 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The primary responsibility for the administration of these regulations shall
be with the Planning Commission. It is the intent of the Planning Commission
that the public interest be protected by a thorough review of all proposed
plats, without undue delay to developers.
§ 15-80 AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, adopt amendments to these
regulations, to the end that the public is better informed and that the
approval and review of plats is improved and/or expedited. These amendments
shall be adopted by said City Council by ordinance, following at least one
review hearing by the Planning Commission.
§ 15-81 AGENDA.
   1.   Each plat submitted for preliminary or final review shall be placed on
the agenda of the Planning Commission only after fulfilling appropriate
requirements of these regulations.
   2.   Any plat not meeting all of the requirements may be submitted if the
subdivider presents, with the plat, a written request for specific exceptions,
and enumerates, in detail, the reasons therefor; however, the Planning
Commission, after appropriate review of said request, shall not be bound to
continue its review if said request does not contain adequate reasons for said
omissions and a reasonable timetable for submission of omitted elements.
§ 15-82 FILING FEES.
   1.   In order to partially defray the administrative costs of plat review, a
filing fee shall be paid to the City Clerk, at the time of submission of the
preliminary plat, in the following amount: $5, plus $1 per lot for the first 50
lots, plus $0.10 for each additional lot thereafter.
   2.   Where only one phase of an approved preliminary plat is submitted for
final approval, a final plat of the remaining area may be submitted at any time
within two years of the first phase final plat approval, without payment of an
additional filing fee by the subdivider, if the final plat for the additional
area conforms substantially with the approved preliminary plat.
§ 15-83 VARIANCES.
   1.   Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these
regulations, and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a
greater extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these
subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured; provided, that, such variance shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations. The Planning Commission
shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon the
evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      a.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
peace, safety, health or welfare, or injurious to other property in the area
where the variance is located;
      b.   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to any other property;
      c.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result (as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience), if the strict letter of these regulations were to be carried
out; and
      d.   The variances will not in any manner conflict with, or vary from,
the provisions of the adopted zoning ordinance or present or future
comprehensive plan.
   2.   In approving variances, the Planning Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
§ 15-84 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare.
§ 15-85 CONFLICTS WITH PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISIONS.
   1.   Public provisions. These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute or other
provision of law. Where any provision of the regulations imposes a restriction
different from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any
other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute or other provision of law, whichever
provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards, shall control.
   2.   Private provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction; provided,
that, where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
standards or regulations higher than such easement, covenant or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or of higher
standards than the requirements of these regulations or the determination of
the Planning Commission in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these
regulations, and such private provisions are not inconsistent with these
regulations or determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be
operative and supplemental to these regulations and determinations made
thereunder.
§ 15-86 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms
and words used herein shall be used, interpreted and defined as hereinafter set
forth. Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the
present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number include
the singular; the word “herein” means “in these regulations”; the word
“regulations” means “these regulations”; a “person” includes a corporation, a
partnership and an incorporated association of persons such as a club; “shall”
is always mandatory; a “building” includes a “structure”; a “building” or
“structure” includes any part thereof; “used” or “occupied” as applied to any
land or building, shall be construed to include the words “intended, arranged
or designed to be used or occupied”.
   AIR RIGHTS. The rights to the air space above a property, for development.
   AIR SPACE. The space above the land which might be subject to division and
sale either with, or separate from, the surface.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Municipal Building Inspector’s
interpretation of any provision of the city’s regulations or a request for a
variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH or VO Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), with a 1% chance or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet, where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The
area may be designated as ZONE A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
(After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.)
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land, intended to be used for development purposes, which
is entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights-of-way,
public walks, parks, rural lands, drainage channels or boundary lines of
municipalities.
   BOND. Any form of security, including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit, in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Cache, Oklahoma, City Council; all bonds shall be approved
by said City Council whenever a bond is required by these regulations.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattel or movable property of any kind (including any
structure).
   BUILDING CODE. A collection of regulations, adopted by the Cache, Oklahoma,
City Council, setting forth standards for the construction of buildings and
other structures, for the purpose of protecting the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
   BUILDING OR SETBACK LINE. A line or lines within a lot designating the area
outside of which buildings may not be erected.
   BUILDING PERMIT. The permit required before construction can be initiated;
BUILDING PERMIT provisions are contained in the code of ordinances for the
city.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
   CITY COUNCIL. The term shall mean the official governing body of the City of
Cache, Oklahoma.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A development pattern in which densities and/or uses
are “clustered” rather than spread evenly throughout a parcel as in
conventional lot-by-lot development. (CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT is used to preserve
open space, create workable land use mixtures and save money by building fewer
streets and shorter utility lines.)
   CODE OF ORDINANCES. The officially adopted code of ordinances of the City of
Cache, Oklahoma.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The officially adopted comprehensive or community plan
or plans for the City of Cache, Oklahoma, which provide(s) long-range
development policies for the area subject to development in the foreseeable
future.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS. Maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat,
showing the specific location and design of required subdivision improvements.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEDICATION. A transfer of property from private to public ownership.
   DEDICATION, FEE IN LIEU OF. Payments of cash, authorized and provided for in
these adopted subdivision regulations, when requirements for mandatory
dedication of land cannot be met because of site conditions or other reasons.
   DENSITY. The average number of families, persons or housing units per acre
of land.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   DRAINAGEWAY. Any depression below the surrounding land, serving to give
direction to a regular or periodic current of water.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in Zones V1-30, Ve or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor,
above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear
walls parallel to the floor or the water; and adequately anchored so as not to
impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the
magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B,
C, X and D, ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of
fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate
the unimpeded movement of flood waters. In the case of Zones V1-30, Ve or V,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of
ELEVATED BUILDING, even through the lower area is enclosed by means of
breakaway walls, if the breakaway walls meet the standards of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3
(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program (NFIP) regulations.
   EROSION. The general process whereby soils are removed or moved by flowing
surface or subsurface water.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas adjacent to stream channels, resulting
from the overflow of such streams, rivers or other inland waterways, or the
unusual and rapid runoff or accumulation of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The maximum area of the floodplain that, on the average,
is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (in other words, that has 1%
chance of being flooded in any given year).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of the City of Cache,
Oklahoma, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium ones
applicable to said community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevations
of the base flood, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway maps.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See definition of FLOODING.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. The full range of codes, ordinances and other
regulations, projects and programs relating to the use of land and construction
within the limits of the floodplain; the term encompasses the city’s zoning
ordinance, subdivision regulations and Sanitary and Building Codes.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended, and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a SYSTEM typically includes, dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood-modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourses
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot, but not the ordinary side of a corner lot.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in
percentage (%) terms.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for the following purposes, including
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation areas, or a combination
thereof; a floor used for storage purposes only is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Street pavements, curbs, pedestrian ways, water mains,
sanitary and storm sewers, monuments, trees and other appropriate items for
which the city may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and
operation, or which may affect an improvement for which municipal
responsibility is established. All such IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded,
in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
   INTENSITY. The degree to which land is used. (Often used synonymously with
DENSITY.)
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOT. A parcel of land, intended as a unit for the transfer of ownership or
for development, of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning ordinance
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are required. Such LOT shall have frontage on a public street
and may consist of:
      a.   A single lot of record;
      b.   A portion of a lot of record;
      c.   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record; or
      d.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided, that, in
no case of division or combination shall any lot or parcel be created which
does not meet the requirements of these regulations or the city’s adopted
zoning ordinance.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
   LOT DEPTH. The average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear
line, measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The dimension of a lot, or portion of a lot, abutting on a
street, except the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. A relocation of the lot lines of two or more lots,
included in a plat which is filed of record, for the purpose of making
necessary adjustments to building sites.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
   LOT OF RECORD. A separate and distinct parcel of land, designated on a
legally-recorded subdivision plat or legally-recorded deed, filed in the
records of the County Courthouse.
   LOT SPLIT. Any division of land by metes and bounds description into two or
more parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership, and which constitutes a subdivision, as herein defined.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of, and abutting on, two or
more streets.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and has non-intersecting frontage on two or more streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, MOBILE HOME. A parcel or tract of land for the placement of a single
mobile home and for the exclusive use of its occupants.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A double frontage lot which is designed to be
developed with the rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary means
of access provided on a minor street.
   LOT, TOWNHOUSE. A lot shown on a townhouse plat and intended as the site of
a single, attached dwelling unit.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking for vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that,
such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program (NFIP) regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976,
in an off-site manufacturing facility, for installation or assembly at the
building site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with
the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 70, §§ 5401 et seq. The three types of manufactured
housing are defined as meeting all of the requirements listed below, and all
three types are to be considered as being separate from mobile or modular
housing:
      a.   TYPE I MANUFACTURED HOUSING shall:
         (1)   Have more than 1,000 square feet of occupied space in a
typically double-section or large multi-section unit, with a minimum width of
20 feet;
         (2)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with the city’s Foundation Code or other adopted
foundation requirements, and the manufacturer’s specifications;
         (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
municipally-approved installation standards;
         (4)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
         (5)   Have all utilities connected, in accordance with the appropriate
municipal codes and the manufacturer’s specifications;
         (6)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         (7)   Have a roofing material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         (8)   Have a covered and/or enclosed parking garage, which is
compatible with other housing in the immediate area; all parking and driveway
areas shall be hard-surfaces;
         (9)   Have legitimate front and rear doors; and
         (10)   Have a minimum eave width of six inches.
      b.   TYPE II MANUFACTURED HOUSING shall:
         (1)   Have more than 720 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
         (2)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with the city’s Foundation Code or other adopted
foundation requirements, and the manufacturer’s specifications;
         (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
municipally-approved installation standards;
         (4)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
         (5)   Have all utilities connected, in accordance with the appropriate
municipal codes and the manufacturer’s specifications;
         (6)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         (7)   Have a roofing material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         (8)   Have a 100 square foot (minimum), attached, covered and/or
enclosed parking garage, which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area; all parking and driveway areas shall be hard-surfaces;
         (9)   Have legitimate front and rear doors; and
         (10)   Have a minimum eave width of six inches.
      c.   TYPE III MANUFACTURED HOUSING shall:
         (1)   Have more than 400 square feet of occupied space, in a single,
double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
         (2)   Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with municipally-
approved installation standards;
         (3)   Be enclosed with foundation siding or skirting, in accordance
with municipally- approved installation standards;
         (4)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the manufacturer’s
specifications and the city’s appropriate, adopted code; and
         (5)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with appropriate
municipal requirements and the manufacturer’s specifications.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the national flood insurance program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
are referenced.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A system of describing and identifying land, by measures
(metes) and direction (bounds), from an identifiable point of reference.
   MOBILE HOME. Any single-family dwelling designed for transportation on
streets and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers (both
highway and rail,) and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a
dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations,
connection to utilities and similar operations.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Land or property which is used, or intended to be used, or
rented for occupancy by, two or more mobile homes, trailers or movable sleeping
quarters of any kind.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated, transportable building unit, not built
on a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated
with similar units on a permanent foundation; the term is intended to apply to
major assemblies and does not include prefabricated sub-elements incorporated
into a structure at the site. All of the following conditions must be certified
(in writing) by the manufacturer of the MODULAR HOME:
      a.   The structure is designed only for erection on a site-built,
permanent foundation;
      b.   The structure is not designed to be moved once erected or installed
a site-built, permanent foundation;
      c.   The structure is designed and manufactured to comply with the city’s
adopted Building Code; and
      d.   The structure is not designed, to the manufacturer’s knowledge, to
be used other than on a site-built, permanent foundation.
   MONUMENT or MARKER. A subdivision improvement, designed to provide permanent
survey reference points within a subdivision, which may be of one of three
types:
      a.   TYPE “A”. A non-corrosive metal plate set in portland cement or
asphaltic concrete;
      b.   TYPE “B”. Iron bar or pipe set in concrete; or
      c.   TYPE “C”. Iron bar set in unexcavated soil.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   ONE-HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. A flood of a frequency expected to occur on
the average of once every 100 years, or a flood magnitude which has a 1% chance
of occurring in any given year.
   PARCEL. A lot or contiguous group of lots, in single ownership or under
single control, and usually considered as one part for purposes of development.
   PEDESTRIANWAY. A right-of-way, dedicated to public use, intended to
facilitate pedestrian access to streets and properties.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A form of development usually characterized by a
unified site design for a number of housing units, and incorporating such
techniques as clustering structures, providing common open space, density
increases and a mix of building types and land uses. (This permits the planning
of a project and the calculation of densities over the entire development
rather than on an individual lot-by-lot basis.)
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Municipal Planning Commission of the City of Cache,
Oklahoma.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of a land subdivision, and any required accompanying
material, prepared in a form suitable for filing of record, with necessary
affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and with complete bearings and
dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks, streets and alleys, public
areas and other dimensions of land.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the
character and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   PRIVATE OR RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS. A private legal restriction on the use of
land, contained in the deed to the property, or otherwise formally recorded.
   RE-SUBDIVISION. A change in an approved or recorded subdivision plat, if
such change affects any street layout, lot line or area reserved thereon for
public use, or if it affects any map or plat legally recorded prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivision.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or another
special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes
shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final
plat, is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such
right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or
parcels. RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, shade trees or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency, shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street so designated for vehicular traffic;
where curbs are in place, that portion of the street between the curbs.
   SEDIMENTATION. Processes that operate at or near the surface of the ground
to create deposits of oils, debris and other materials, either on other ground
surfaces or in water channels.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR.
      a.   Any device or combination of devices or elements which rely upon
sunshine as an energy source. The term also includes any substance or device
which collects solar energy for use in:
         (1)   The heating or cooling of a structure of building;
         (2)   The heating or pumping of water;
         (3)   Industrial, commercial or agricultural processes; or
         (4)   The generation of electricity.
      b.   A SOLAR COLLECTOR may be used for purposes in addition to the
collection of solar energy. These uses include, but are not limited to, serving
as a structural member, or part, of a roof of a building or structure and
serving as a window or wall.
   SOLAR RIGHT. A right to an unobstructed line-of-sight path from a solar
collector to the sun, which permits radiation from the sun to impinge directly
on the solar collector.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: FLOOD-PRONE AREAS. As applied in flood-prone areas
(for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal
Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial
improvement and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of a slab, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basements, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: NON-FLOOD-PRONE AREAS. As applied in non-flood-prone
areas, shall mean the first placement of permanent construction on a site, such
as the pouring of footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. For a
structure without a basement of poured footings, the start of construction
includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure or any part
thereof on its pilings or foundation, or the affixing of any prefabricated
structure or mobile home to its permanent site. Permanent construction (except
in identified flood hazard areas) does not include: land preparation, land
clearing, grading or filling or excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations; or erection of temporary forms; or the installation of piling
under proposed subsurface footings; or installation of sewer, gas and water
pipes, or electric or other service lines from the street; or existence on the
property of service lines from the street; or existence on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not a part of the main structure; in flood-hazard areas only, START OF
CONSTRUCTION shall include all of the above.
   STREET. Any public or private right-of-way which affords the primary means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET CLASSIFICATION. For the purpose of providing for the development of
the streets, highways, roads and rights-of-way in the city and for their future
improvement, reconstruction, re-alignment and necessary widening (including
provision for curbs and sidewalks), each existing street, highway, road and
right-of-way has been designated in the comprehensive plan of the city and
classified therein. The classification of each street, highway, road and right-
of-way is based upon its location in the respective zoning districts of the
city, its present and estimated future traffic volume and its relative
importance and function, as specified in the city’s comprehensive plan. The
required street and sign improvements shall be provided as set forth for each
classification in the adopted subdivision regulations and/or the city’s
comprehensive plan or capital improvements program.
   STREET, COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL. A street which abuts property zoned for
commercial or industrial use and which is designed to provide access to those
parcels so designated.
   STREET, HALF. Any street platted 25 feet or more in width, where, at the
time of the approval of the plat, it is the intent of the City Council that
said street dedication shall constitute only a part of the total street
easement width.
   STREET, MAJOR. An arterial street which is so designated on the major
streets plan or comprehensive plan, and is designed to carry inter-city traffic
and to relate the various neighborhoods or residential areas within the city
shall be classified as follows.
      a.   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A freeway or expressway providing a
trafficway for through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of
abutting property or lands, and other persons, have no legal right to access to
or from the same, except at such points and in such manner as may be determined
by the State Department of Transportation.
      b.   PRIMARY ARTERIAL or THOROUGHFARE. A roadway intended to move through
traffic to and from major traffic generators, or as a route for traffic between
communities or employment centers.
      c.   SECONDARY ARTERIAL or THOROUGHFARE. A road intended to collect and
distribute traffic in a manner similar to primary arterials, except that these
roads service minor traffic generating areas, or a road which may be designated
to carry traffic from collector streets to the system of primary arterials.
   STREET, MINOR. Any street or right-of-way other than one designated as a
major street in the major streets plan or the comprehensive plan; but not
including alleyways. MINOR STREETS shall be classified as follows.
      a.   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, from which a
secondary means of access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street is obtained, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
      b.   COLLECTOR STREET. A street collecting traffic from other minor
streets; serves as the most direct route to a major street or community
facility and should be designed so that no residential properties front onto
it.
      c.   COURT. A secondary designation following a street name, used only
when street alignment is such that a short street is created that does not
warrant a new street name.
      d.   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one end open to vehicular traffic and
one closed end, terminated by a turnaround.
      e.   DEAD-END-STREET. A street, similar to a cul-de-sac, but providing no
turnaround at its closed end.
      f.   FRONTAGE OR SERVICE STREET. A street auxiliary to, and located on,
the side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent
areas and for control of access.
      g.   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily providing access to and from
abutting property and serving only occasional through traffic.
      h.   PLACE. A secondary designation following a street name, used only
when street alignment is such that a short street is created that does not
warrant a new street name.
   STREET, PERIMETER. Any existing street which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above-ground, and shall include a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVIDER or DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other
entity acting as a unit, subdividing, proposing to subdivide or re-subdividing
land as herein defined, including all changes in street or lot lines.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of land (vacant or improved) or
airspace, into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, sites, areas, units or plots,
any one of which, when divided, has an area of less than ten acres, for the
purpose of transfer of ownership or for development, or the dedication,
vacation or realignment of any public or private right-of-way easement.
SUBDIVISION shall be classified as follows.
      a.   MAJOR. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of municipal facilities, or
the creation of any public improvements.
      b.   MINOR. Any subdivision containing not more than three lots fronting
on an existing street, involving any new street or road, or the extension of
municipal utilities or facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the comprehensive plan,
zoning ordinance or these regulations. A lot split or lot line adjustment shall
be considered a MINOR SUBDIVISION.
      c.   MOBILE HOME. A unified development of mobile home lots, which has
been subdivided for the purpose of individual ownership, and which is governed
by the provisions of these regulations, the city’s adopted zoning ordinance and
the code of ordinances for the city.
      d.   NONRESIDENTIAL. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial.
   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. The officially adopted subdivision regulations for
the City of Cache, Oklahoma, designed to provide standards for the subdivision
of land within the jurisdictional area of the Planning Commission of said
municipality.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      a.   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (1)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (2)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      b.   For the purpose of this definition SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      c.   The term does not, however, include either:
         (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (2)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, the State Register of Historic Places.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision, prior to the release of the performance
bond, or its equivalent.
   TOWN. The City of Cache, Oklahoma.
   TOWNHOUSE. One of a series of two or more attached dwelling units, separated
from one another by continuous, vertical walls without openings from basement
floor to the roof deck and tight against the same or through the roof, and
which are intended to have ownership transferred in conjunction with a lot
platted in accordance with state law and/or the city’s adopted subdivision
regulations.
   TREE CROWN. The outside diameter of a tree’s branches.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter, when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by these regulations.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 (b)(5), (c)(4),
(c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the NFIP regulations, is presumed
to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitude and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   WAY. Any street, avenue, highway, boulevard, road or alley reserved and/or
dedicated for public or private use, chiefly by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
   ZERO LOT LINE. A flexible development approach in which a building is sited
on one or more lot lines with no yard (conceivably, three of the four sides of
the building could be on the lot lines), in order to allow more flexibility in
site design and to increase the amount of usable open space on the lot.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The officially adopted zoning ordinance for the City of
Cache, Oklahoma.
§ 15-87 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, provision or portion of these
regulations shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the validity of any other section,
subsection, paragraph, provision or portion of these regulations.
§ 15-88 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
§ 15-89 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   1.   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement or alteration of any existing structure, on any tract of land in a
subdivision filed or recorded after the effective date of these regulations,
which does not comply with all the provisions of these regulations.
   2.   A violation of these regulations shall be deemed an offense and shall
be punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation which violates or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of these regulations shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed $100 for each offense. Each day a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
§§ 15-90 THROUGH 15-99 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
II: PLAT PREPARATION AND REVIEW
§ 15-100 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Plat approval. For all cases of subdivision within the scope of these
regulations, a plat shall be drawn and submitted to the Planning Commission and
the City Council (provided, that, the subdivision is within the city limits),
for their approval or disapproval.
   2.   Acceptance of dedications and easements. All easements and areas
dedicated to public use within the corporate limits of the city shall be
submitted to the City Council for acceptance. Outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city, no easements or publicly-dedicated areas shall be
effectively dedicated to the county until such easements or areas, as shown on
the plat, have been submitted to, and reviewed and formally accepted by, the
Board of Commissioners.
   3.   Subdivision review process. The subdivision review process required in
these regulations shall consist of two phases:
      a.   Review of the preliminary plat and initial improvement plans; and
      b.   Review of the final plat and final improvement plans.
   4.   Special procedures. Special procedures for the following types of
subdivisions shall be as provided in Article I of these regulations:
      a.   Lot splits;
      b.   Lot line adjustments;
      c.   Planned unit development;
      d.   Re-subdivision;
      e.   Undeveloped plats; and
      f.   Vacation of plats.
§ 15-101 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   1.   Purpose. The preliminary plat is intended to allow the developer to
present plats and improvement plans for review and approval by the Planning
Commission and the City Council (if the subdivision is within the city limits).
   2.   Application. The owner or his or her representative shall file an
application for approval of a preliminary plat; the application shall:
      a.   Be made on forms available from the office of the City Clerk;
      b.   Be accompanied by at least four copies of the preliminary plat and
at least two copies of the required improvement plans, as described in this
article; and
      c.   Be delivered to the Planning Commission Chairperson, or the City
Clerk, not less than ten days prior to the meeting date at which the plat is to
be reviewed.
   3.   Planning Commission review. The Chairperson of the Planning Commission
or the City Clerk shall be responsible for setting a date for Planning
Commission review of the preliminary plat and notifying the owner of the
subdivision or his or her agent, in writing, of said date; he or she shall also
be responsible for obtaining the comments of the Municipal Utilities
Superintendent, County Health Department, Fire Chief and the School
Superintendent on the proposed subdivision. The Planning Commission’s review of
the preliminary plat shall be in accordance with the following provisions:
      a.   The Planning Commission shall review the applicant’s preliminary
plat, and shall approve, approve conditionally or disapprove the plat within 60
days of the date of its receipt by the City Clerk or Chairperson of the
Planning Commission from the applicant. The subdivider shall be notified in
writing of this action, which notification shall specifically state any
conditions of approval, or those provisions of the comprehensive plan or other
regulations with which the disapproved plat was not in conformance. On
conditionally approving a plat, the Planning Commission may require the
submission of a revised preliminary plat.
      b.   If the preliminary plat has not been acted upon by the Planning
Commission within the 60-day period and an agreement to extend the time has not
been obtained from the applicant, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to have
been approved by the Planning Commission.
      c.   If the plat conforms to all of the standards referred to herein, or
after all agreed to revisions are included therein, two copies of the
preliminary plat shall be forwarded to the City Clerk along with a written
recommendation from the Planning Commission, for scheduling of review by the
City Council.
   4.   City Council review. The City Clerk shall be responsible for placing
review of the proposed subdivision preliminary plat on the agenda of the City
Council and providing written notice of said date to the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission and the owner (or his or her agent) of the proposed
subdivision. The City Council’s review of said subdivision shall be in
accordance with the following provisions.
      a.   The City Council shall approve, approve conditionally or disapprove
the preliminary plat within 60 days of its receipt by the City Clerk for
placing on the City Council’s agenda. The subdivider shall be notified in
writing of this action, which notification shall specifically state any
conditions of approval, or those provisions of the comprehensive plan or other
regulations with which the disapproved plat was not in conformance. On
conditionally approving a plat, the City Council may require the submission of
a revised preliminary plat.
      b.   If the preliminary plat has not been acted upon by the City Council
within the 60-day period, and an agreement to extend the time has not been
obtained from the applicant, the plat shall be deemed to have been approved by
the City Council without the acceptance, by the city, of dedications, easements
and the like.
      c.   If the preliminary plat conforms to all of the standards of the
comprehensive plan, these and other regulations of the city, and, along with
the improvement plans, is approved, or after the applicant and the City Council
agree upon any revised copy, the subdivider may proceed with the construction
of required improvements and the preparation of the final plat.
   5.   Approval period. The approval or conditional approval of a preliminary
plat shall be effective for a period of two years from the date of City Council
approval, at the end of which time, unless a final plat on the subdivision
shall have been submitted to the Planning Commission, the preliminary plat
shall be considered null and void. In such cases, the subdivider shall be
required to re-submit a preliminary (and final) plat for the subdivision. In
reviewing a preliminary plat which has been re-submitted by reason of being
voided by the passage of time, the Planning Commission shall not be bound by a
previous approval.
   6.   Sectionalizing subdivision plats. Prior to approval of a final plat,
the Planning Commission may permit the preliminary plat to be divided into two
or more phases and may impose such conditions upon filing of the final plats
for all phases as it may deem necessary to assure the orderly development of
the plat.
   7.   Conditional approval provisions. The Planning Commission or the City
Council may elect to place conditions upon the approval of the preliminary
plat, and may stipulate the requirements for satisfaction of such conditions.
In addition, either body may conditionally approve a preliminary plat which is
submitted for consideration, without complete improvement plans, in order to
expedite the review process. Such conditional approval shall be given only when
the subdivider provides written assurance of plan submission within a specified
period of time, which allows the adequate review of said plans prior to
consideration of the final plat.
   8.   Specifications. Preliminary plats submitted to the Planning Commission
shall be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch, and shall bear, or be
accompanied by, the following information or materials:
      a.   Descriptive margin data.
         (1)   Map scale, north arrow and date;
         (2)   Proposed subdivision name;
         (3)   Names and addresses of the owners of record, the subdivider, and
the registered engineer preparing the plat; and
         (4)   An inset key map showing the location of the proposed
subdivision, reference to existing or major streets and to government section
lines or other survey control points.
      b.   Existing conditions.
         (1)   Topography with contour intervals of two feet or less,
referenced to a U.S. geological survey or U.S. coast and geodetic survey
benchmark;
         (2)   Water elevations of adjoining ponds or streams at the date of
the survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes or
streams; if any portion of any land within the proposed subdivision lies within
the city’s designated floodplain, such fact and said land shall be clearly
shown on the preliminary plat;
         (3)   Location, widths and names of all existing platted or dedicated
streets, alleys or other public ways and easements, railroad and utility
rights-of-way, parks, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings,
bridges and the location, size and type of sanitary and storm sewers, water
mains, culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface and sub-surface
structures or pipelines; and
         (4)   Zoning district classification (if there is more than one
classification, the dividing lines shall be shown) of land to be subdivided, as
well as adjoining lands.
      c.   Proposed development.
         (1)   The boundaries of the proposed subdivision (to the indicated
scale), showing the total perimeter; lengths of all lines shall be measured to
the nearest foot and bearings of lines shall be given;
         (2)   The location and width of proposed streets, alleys, easements
and pedestrianways, conforming to the approved street classification criteria;
         (3)   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, the proposed method of disposing of all runoff from the proposed
subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements relating
thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the proposed
subdivision;
         (4)   Approximate radii of all curves and lengths of all tangents;
         (5)   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots and the
number of letter of each block;
         (6)   Building setback lines, with dimensions;
         (7)   Indication of any lots on which use other than residential is
proposed by the subdivider;
         (8)   The location, size and type of all proposed public utility
lines, including storm and sanitary sewer, water, gas and power lines. If a
community sewage treatment plant, or other type of community disposal system is
to be installed or constructed to conserve all or certain portions of the
proposed subdivision, the general plans for such community type sewage
treatment or disposal system shall be shown (or accompany the plat) and be so
identified on the preliminary plat; and
         (9)   The location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, church
sites, school sites or other special uses of land to be considered for
dedication to public use, or to be reserved by deed of covenant for the use of
all property owners in the subdivision, and any conditions of such dedication
or reservation.
      d.   Additional materials.
         (1)   Four copies of all required improvement plans;
         (2)   Two copies of the proposed “house numbering system” (by lot), in
accordance with the specifications of the city’s code of ordinances;
         (3)   Where deed restrictions are to be recorded on the final plat, a
description of the proposed restrictions shall accompany the preliminary plat;
and
         (4)   In case of re-subdivision, a copy of the existing plat shall
accompany the preliminary plat.
      e.   Material required in floodplain areas.
         (1)   Preliminary plan of any on-site waste disposal systems,
including disposal sites for lands subject to flooding, or sanitary sewers,
with grade, pipe size and points of discharge;
         (2)   Preliminary plans for the drainage system, with grade, pipe size
and location of outlet;
         (3)   Preliminary plans for the water supply and distribution system,
with pipe sizes and location of hydrants; and
         (4)   Proposed fill or other structure-elevating techniques, levees,
channel modifications or other methods to overcome flood or related hazards,
and a statement describing their impacts on existing development in upstream
and downstream areas.
§ 15-102 IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   1.   Improvement plans required. The owner or subdivider shall, at the time
of his or her submission of the preliminary plat to the Planning Commission,
also include at least four copies of the improvement plans required by these
subdivision regulations. Improvement plans shall include, but not be limited
to, plans for the following:
      a.   Streets;
      b.   Sanitary sewer;
      c.   Water;
      d.   Drainage; and
      e.   Erosion and sediment control.
   2.   Specifications. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of not more than 50
feet to one inch, on 24-inch by 36-inch sheets, and shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      a.   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section
of proposed street improvements, including curbs, gutters and sidewalks;
      b.   The location, size, profile and invert elevations of proposed
sanitary sewers, including manholes;
      c.   The location and size of proposed water mains, valves, fittings and
fire hydrants, including service taps underneath proposed streets;
      d.   The location and design of drainage structures, easements or rights-
of-way dedicated to the public, including typical cross-sections of all channel
improvements and a site grading plan; improvement plans shall be accompanied by
drainage calculations in accordance with the adopted standards and regulations
for drainage improvements; and
      e.   The location of all existing or proposed easements and rights-of-way
and a typical cross-section of the proposed utility installations within said
easements.
   3.   Preparation of plans. Improvement plans shall, as required by law, bear
the seal of an engineer registered in the state.
   4.   Erosion and sediment control plans. Erosion and sediment control plans
shall be submitted for the Planning Commission’s and City Council’s review,
showing compliance with the following provisions, before a final plat may be
approved.
      a.   Stands of existing trees, as they are to be preserved upon project
completion, and specifying their locations on the property, shall be shown.
      b.   The projected sequence of work shall be shown.
      c.   Development shall be accomplished so as to minimize adverse effects
upon the natural or existing topography and soil conditions and to minimize the
potential for erosion. No site shall be graded except in accordance with
approved plans to meet foundation, parking and the drainage requirements of
these regulations.
      d.   Plans for development shall minimize cut and fill operations.
      e.   During construction, adequate protective measures shall be provided
to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the
sloping surfaces of fills.
      f.   Fills shall not encroach upon natural watercourses, their
floodplains or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other
properties.
      g.   Alteration of land in existing developed areas shall be conducted in
such a manner that changes in patterns of natural drainage shall not adversely
affect other landowners.
      h.   No construction materials or construction by-products shall be
discarded in any drainageway or stream.
      i.   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size which can be
completed during a single construction season. Erosion and sediment control
measures shall be coordinated with the sequence of grading, development and
construction operations. Control measures such as hydro-seeding, berms,
interceptor ditches, terraces and sediment traps shall be put into effect prior
to the commencement of each increment of the development and construction
process.
      j.   Existing trees shall not be cut or otherwise damaged or destroyed
within portions of property to be used for required open space, setback or
buffer requirements of the zoning ordinance of the city.
      k.   In cases where retention of natural trees would create unusual
hardship or development problems in open space, setback and buffer areas,
planted trees may be required in lieu of preserving existing trees.
      l.   No concrete, asphalt or other impervious material paving within the
tree crown zone of trees to be preserved shall be allowed.
      m.   Soil and other materials shall not be temporarily or permanently
stored in locations which would cause suffocation of root systems of trees to
be preserved.
§ 15-103 FINAL PLAT.
   1.   Purpose. The purpose of the final plat is to create a document for
record which accurately describes the subdivided land, both as to accurate
dimensions and legal provisions which are pertinent to the subdivision.
   2.   Application. Following approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning
Commission and the City Council, the owner or subdivider shall file a written
application with the Chairperson of the Planning Commission (or his or her
designated representative on the municipal staff) for final plat approval. The
application shall:
      a.   Be made on forms available in the office of the City Clerk;
      b.   Comply in all respects with the preliminary plat, as approved by
both the Planning Commission and the City Council;
      c.   Be accompanied by at least four prints of the proposed plat and
either one original linen tracing or a reproduction original of stable
polyester base (or stable polyester base film);
      d.   Be accompanied by two copies of proposed restrictive covenants;
      e.   Be accompanied by one set of record plans for any improvements
already completed; and
      f.   Be delivered to the Planning Commission Chairperson, or the City
Clerk, not less than ten days prior to the meeting date at which the plat is to
be reviewed.
   3.   Planning Commission review. Upon receipt of the final plat application
and materials, the Chairperson of the Planning Commission or the City Clerk
shall set a date for Planning Commission review of the final plat and shall
notify the owner or subdivider, in writing, of said review date. The Planning
Commission’s review shall be in accordance with the following provisions.
      a.   The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for final approval within two years of the date on which
the preliminary plat was approved by the City Council. If not submitted for
final approval within such time, the preliminary plat shall be considered as
having been disapproved unless the Planning Commission agrees to an extension
of time.
      b.   The Planning Commission shall act upon the final plat within 60 days
after it has been submitted to the Planning Commission Chairperson for final
approval. The subdivider shall be notified in writing upon approval or
conditional approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission. If no action
on the final plat has been taken within the above specified time, and the
applicant does not agree to an extension of time for action, the plat shall be
deemed to have been approved. Certification by the City Clerk as to the date of
the final plat’s submission and the failure of the Planning Commission to act
thereon within such time shall be sufficient in lieu of written endorsement of
approval.
      c.   If the final plat is disapproved by the Planning Commission, the
reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, with reference to
specific sections of the comprehensive plan or those ordinances or regulations
with which the plat does not comply. A copy of this statement shall be sent to
the applicant, along with one of the prints submitted by the applicant.
      d.   If the plat conforms to all of the requirements provided herein, one
copy of the final plat shall be forwarded to the City Council for its review,
along with the written recommendation of the Planning Commission and the
signature of the Chairperson of the Planning Commission on the approved plat.
      e.   No vested rights shall accrue to any plat by reason of preliminary
or final approval, until the actual signing of the final plat by the Mayor. All
requirements, conditions or regulations adopted by the Planning Commission are
applicable to the subdivision (or on all subdivisions) prior to the time of
signing of the final plat by the Chairperson of the Planning Commission. Where
the Planning Commission has required the installation of improvements prior to
signing of the final plat, said Commission shall not unreasonably modify the
conditions set forth in the final approval.
   4.   City Council review. The City Clerk shall be responsible for placing
the subdivision on the agenda of the City Council and providing written notice
of said date to the Chairperson of the Planning Commission and the owner (or
his or her agent) of the subdivision. The City Council’s review of said
subdivision shall be in accordance with the following provisions.
      a.   The City Council shall approve or disapprove the final plat and
notify the subdivider in writing of its action. Such notification shall include
specific references to those portions of the plat which are not in compliance
with these or other regulations, if the plat is disapproved.
      b.   After final approval of the plat and the affixing of all required
signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider shall provide the Planning
Commission with three dark-line prints thereof and file with the City Clerk one
contact reproducible tracing. The applicant shall file the original tracing and
two prints with the County Clerk.
   5.   Approval period. The final plat shall be filed in the office of the
County Clerk within two years after final approval by the City Council; if not
filed within such time, said approval shall be considered null and void.
   6.   Boundary traverse closure. Certified boundary traverse closure data,
based on the surveyor’s calculations thereof, shall be provided to the office
of the City Clerk at the time of submission of the final plat.
   7.   Specifications. Final plats submitted to the Planning Commission shall
be neatly drawn in ink on a tracing cloth or reproducible Mylar, at a scale of
100 feet to one inch (tracts of land in excess of 40,000 square feet may be
platted at a scale of 200 feet to one inch), from an accurate survey; the plat
shall be prepared on sheets whose dimensions are 24 inches by 36 inches. The
plat shall have a binding margin of two inches on the left side, and minimum
margins of one inch on the right side and one and-one half inches at the top
and bottom. The final plat shall bear, or be accompanied by, the following
information or materials:
      a.   Title data.
         (1)   Name of the subdivision;
         (2)   Name of the city, county and state; and
         (3)   Location and description of the subdivision, referenced to
section, township and range.
      b.   Margin data.
         (1)   Map scale, north arrow and date;
         (2)   Names and addresses of the developer and the engineer and/or
surveyor;
         (3)   A key map (on the first sheet in a plat series) showing the
location of the subdivision referenced to government section corners, section
line and major streets; when more than two sheets are required for the plat,
the key map shall show the sheet number of the sheet for the area included on
the sheet;
         (4)   Owner’s certificate and dedication, signed;
         (5)   Surveyor’s certificate or survey, signed and his or her seal;
         (6)   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public, signed;
         (7)   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the County Clerk, which directly affect the
land being subdivided;
         (8)   The proper acknowledgments of owners and the consent of the
mortgagee to plat restrictions; and
         (9)   The location and description of all section corners and
permanent survey monuments in or near the tract; reference to at least one, and
preferably two, known survey control points shall be shown by angle and
distance.
      c.   Material required in floodplain areas.
         (1)   All information required on the preliminary plat, including, but
not limited to, regulatory flood elevations, boundaries of flood-prone areas,
fills, flood protection works and areas subject to special deed restrictions;
         (2)   Floodway and floodway fringe areas determined by the city;
         (3)   Final plans for any sanitary sewers, with grading, pipe sizes
and points of discharge;
         (4)   Final plans for drainage systems, with grading, impacting,
storage and regulating structures, pipe sizes and location of outlets; and
         (5)   Final plans for any water supply and distribution system, with
pipe sizes and location of hydrants.
§§ 15-104 THROUGH 15-115 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
III: SUBDIVISION DESIGN
§ 15-116 GENERAL DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS.
   1.   The design of each new subdivision shall be prepared in accordance with
the principles established by the comprehensive plan for the city and with the
minimum standards for these and other regulations.
   2.   The arrangement of lots, blocks and the street system should be
designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical
features. The system of pedestrianways, roadways and the lot layout should be
designed to take advantage of the visual qualities of the area.
§ 15-117 STREETS: GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided shall
have frontage on, and access from, an existing municipal street, unless such
street is.
      a.   An existing state or county roadway; or
      b.   A publicly-dedicated street shown upon a plat approved by the
Planning Commission and recorded in the County Clerk’s office. Such street or
highway must be generally improved as required by these subdivision regulations
and specifications, or be secured by a performance bond required under these
regulations, with the width and right-of-way required by these regulations.
   2.   Wherever the area to be subdivided is to utilize existing road
frontage, such road shall be suitably improved as provided herein.
   3.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall conform to all of the elements of the comprehensive plan and be
designed in accordance with the provisions of these and other applicable
regulations.
   4.   Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local roads
shall be curved wherever possible to provide topographic compatibility,
facilitate good drainage and allow gravity flow sewerage. All streets shall be
arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building sites at, or
above, the grades of the streets. A combination of steep grades and curves
shall be avoided.
   5.   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic
generators (such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and
shopping centers), to population densities and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
   6.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, the
provision of alleys, truck loading and a maneuvering areas, walks and parking
areas, so as to minimize conflict of movement between the various types of
traffic (including pedestrian).
   7.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided (unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions),
unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout, or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts.
   8.   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned or
intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of the proposed
future street system for the unsubdivided portion shall also be prepared and
submitted by the subdivider.
   9.   No street name shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the approval of
the Planning Commission and the City Council.
   10.   Major streets in the subdivision shall be planned to conform with the
major streets plan or comprehensive plan adopted by the city and provision
shall be made for the extension of major and secondary thoroughfares. Except
for courts, places or cul-de-sacs, the street layout normally shall provide for
a reasonable linkage with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent
subdivisions, provide for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts,
and be a reasonable projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts.
   11.   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed major
street, the Planning Commission may require service streets, reverse frontage
with screened plantings contained in a non-access reservation along the rear
property line, deep lots or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
   12.   Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   13.   Railroad rights-of-way and limited access highways, where so located
as to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands, shall be treated as follows.
      a.   In residential zoning districts, a buffer strip at least 25 feet in
depth, in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district,
shall be provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access
highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated
as follows on the plat: “This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of
structures hereon is prohibited.”
      b.   In commercial and industrial zoning districts, the nearest street
extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad shall, wherever
practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure suitable depth for
commercial or industrial sites.
      c.   Streets parallel to the railroad, when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade, shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
   14.   Reserve strips controlling access to minor streets by parties or
persons other than public agencies shall be prohibited.
   15.   Half-streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the
street easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever a dedicated
half-street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the
street shall be included within the plat for the tract which is being
subdivided.
   16.   Whenever a major or minor street is located wholly within the proposed
subdivision, the total width of the right-of-way shall be dedicated; whenever a
major or minor street is located adjacent to the outer edge of the subdivision,
one-half of the right-of-way shall be dedicated, if it is determined by the
Planning Commission that it is equitable and feasible from an engineering and
design standpoint for the other half of the right-of-way to be dedicated from
adjacent property.
   17.   The finished elevation of proposed streets within any designated
floodplains shall be at or above the level of the 100-year flood.
   18.   The criteria established in the following table (street design
standards) shall be followed in the layout and design of all major and minor
streets.
Street Design Standards
               Major Streets                               Minor Streets
Design Element Primary Thoroughfare Secondary Thoroughfare Collector Local
Street Design Standards
                  Major Streets             Minor Streets
Design Element    Primary      Secondary    Collector  Local
                  Thoroughfare Thoroughfare
Design speed      40 mph       30 mph       30 mph     25 mph
Grade:
   Maximum     5%           7%           10%        10%
   Minimum     0.5%         0.5%         0.5%       0.5%
Stopping sight    350 feet     200 feet     200 feet   200 feet
distance
Number of traffic 4 (minimum)  4            2          2
lanes
Minimum paving
thickness:
   Asphalt     Structurally Structurally 5 inches   5 inches*
section           designed     designed
   Concrete    Structurally Structurally 6 inches   6 inches
section           designed     designed
Residential       —          —          Bituminous Bituminous surface
estates section                             surface
Minimum right-of-
way
   Width       100 feet     80 feet      60 feet    50 feet
Minimum roadway
   Width       50 feet      50 feet      32 feet    26 feet
Traffic lane
   Effective   12 feet      12 feet      12 feet    —
width
Shoulder or
parking
   Land width  10 feet      10 feet      6 feet     6 feet
Notes:
   * Minor commercial streets shall have minimum paving thickness of 6
inches
 
   Design Standards for Subdivision Streets
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1695.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1697.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1699.png]
§ 15-118 STREETS: ALIGNMENT.
   1.   Design of the development shall provide for the continuation of streets
between adjacent properties, when such continuation is necessary for convenient
movement of traffic, effective fire protection, efficient provision of
utilities, and where such continuation is in accordance with the comprehensive
plan.
   2.   Streets with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall be avoided.
   3.   A tangent of not less than 100 feet in length shall be introduced
between reverse curves on major streets and collector streets.
§ 15-119 STREETS: CULS-DE-SAC AND DEAD-END STREETS.
   1.   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall normally be 500 feet,
including a turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end, with an
inside curb radius of at least 40 feet and a right-of-way radius of not less
than 50 feet.
   2.   In the case of temporarily dead-ended streets which are incomplete but
designed to provide future connection with adjoining unsubdivided areas, proper
provisions shall be made for adequate storm drainage so that storm water does
not collect at the ends of these temporary streets. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must be a dead-end street temporarily, the right-of-
way and the improvements shall be extended to the property line. The Planning
Commission may limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance
with the design standards of these regulations.
   3.   Where a road does not extend to the boundary of the subdivision and its
continuation is not required by the Planning Commission for access to adjoining
property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to such boundary than 50
feet. However, the Planning Commission may require the reservation of an
appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic or
utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the end of a permanent
dead-end street. For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police
and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in general, be limited
in length, in accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
§ 15-120 STREETS: INTERSECTIONS.
   1.   Streets shall be laid out to intersect at right angles and may be
curved, if necessary, in order to make this possible. In no event shall a
street intersect any other street at any angle of less than 75 degrees.
   2.   Street corners on local residential streets shall have a minimum radius
of 25 feet at the curb line or its equivalent.
   3.   Street corners on commercial and industrial streets shall have a
minimum radius of 30 feet at the curb line or its equivalent.
   4.   Street intersections involving major streets shall have a minimum
street corner radius of 30 feet at the curb line or its equivalent.
   5.   A 25-foot area of clear vision at street intersections in subdivisions
shall be provided. This area shall be kept clear of all structures and
vegetation exceeding a height of three feet above the established municipal
street elevation. Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner, that would create a traffic hazard
by limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way, to
the extent deemed necessary to provide adequate and unobstructed vision.
   6.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical.
In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area
shall be provided having not greater than a 2% rate at a distance of 60 feet,
measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
§ 15-121 ALLEYS.
   1.   Alleys shall be provided in all commercial and industrial subdivisions,
except that the Planning Commission may waive this requirement, where other
definite and assured provisions are made for service access, such as off-street
loading, unloading and parking, consistent with and adequate for, the uses
proposed.
   2.   Alleys for residential areas shall not be less than 20 feet in width.
   3.   Alleys for commercial or industrial areas shall be no less than 30 feet
in width.
   4.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall permit safe vehicular movement.
   5.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as
determined by the Planning Commission.
§ 15-122 PEDESTRIANWAYS.
   See Article IV, Subdivision Improvements.
§ 15-123 EASEMENTS: STREET AND ALLEY.
   1.   Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than ten feet wide
shall be provided along each rear lot line, and along the side lot lines where
necessary for use by public and private utilities. The Planning Commission may
require aerial easements and easements of greater width for the extension of
main storm and sanitary sewers and other utilities, where it is deemed
necessary.
   2.   Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards designated in these
regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography, additional width is
necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes shall not be in excess
of three to one.
§ 15-124 EASEMENTS: UTILITY.
   1.   Dedicated easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for
utilities (private and municipal); such easements shall be at least ten feet
wide. Proper coordination shall be established between the subdivider and the
applicable utility companies for the establishment of utility easements in
adjoining properties.
   2.   In large lot or residential estates subdivisions, or where
topographical or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion
of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual unobstructed easements at
least ten feet in width shall be provided along side lot lines with
satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines. Easements shall be indicated
on the final plat.
   3.   Installation and inspection. All utility facilities, including, but not
limited to, gas, electricity, telephone and CATV cables, shall be located 18
inches to 24 inches underground, per IRC E3803.1, within the subdivision.
Wherever existing facilities are located aboveground, except where such
facilities are located on public roads or rights-of-way, they shall be removed
and placed underground. Underground service connections to the street property
line of each platted lot shall be installed at the developer's expense. At the
discretion of the Planning Commission, the requirement for service connections
to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in
single ownership and intended to be developed for the same primary use. After
installation of such lines, "as installed" diagrams shall be furnished by the
installer to the City Clerk, drawn to scale and indicating the location of all
lines.
   4.   In addition to the requirements established herein, all plats shall
comply with the following laws, rules and regulations:
      a.   All applicable provisions of state statutes;
      b.   The official comprehensive plan, the adopted zoning ordinance,
Building and Housing Codes and all other applicable laws of the city;
      c.   The special requirements of any rules and regulations of the State
Department of Environmental Quality and/or other appropriate state agencies;
      d.   The rules and regulations of the State Department of Transportation,
if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or
connecting street; and
      e.   All other applicable standards and regulations adopted by the City
Council and all boards, commissions, agencies and officials of the city.
   5.   When a utility is installed or repaired, it will be the responsibility
of those making that installation or repair to return the easement to a mowable
condition. Backfilling of all excavations shall be compacted in such a manner
so that settling shall not occur. If settling occurs, those making such
installations shall backfill the settled ditch in a timely fashion. If
backfilling is not done in a timely fashion, the city shall backfill or cause
to be backfilled and bill the repairs to the appropriate party.
(Ord. 2025-06, 7-8-2025)
§ 15-125 EASEMENTS: DRAINAGE.
   1.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel
or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-
way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of such
width and/or construction as will be adequate for the purpose. Wherever
possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open channel
with landscaped banks and adequate width, for maximum potential volume of flow.
   2.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make the inclusion
of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way impractical, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage facilities
shall be provided across property outside the road lines and with satisfactory
access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the final plat. Drainage
easements shall be carried from the road to a natural watercourse or to other
drainage facilities.
   3.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private land
outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights and easements may be
required and indicated on the final plat.
   4.   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee simple title, or by
drainage or conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses,
to a distance to be determined by the Planning Commission, based on the
appropriate floodway and floodway fringe zoning district delineations.
   5.   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or overflow
during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for dedication, shall be
preserved and retained in their natural state as drainageways. Such land or
lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be computed in determining the
number of lots to be utilized for average density procedure, nor for computing
the area requirements of any lot.
§ 15-126 LOTS.
   1.   Lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning ordinance
and health regulations, and in providing driveway access to buildings on such
lots from an approved street. Where possible, options for driveways shall be
available so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on major
streets or collector streets.
   2.   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the zoning
ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required area for the
zoning district, the Planning Commission may require that such lots be arranged
so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets where they
would be necessary to serve such potential lots, all in compliance with the
zoning ordinance and these regulations.
   3.   In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines (or
radial to curving street lines) unless a variation from this rule will give a
better street or lot plan. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to
allow for erection of buildings, observing the minimum front yard setback from
both streets.
   4.   The depth of residential lots, other than lots for townhouses, should
not be less than 100 feet.
   5.   The area of residential lots, other than lots for townhouses, shall not
be less than 6,000 square feet.
   6.   In subdivisions where septic tanks or other individual sewerage
disposal devices are to be installed, the size of all lots included in such
subdivision shall be subject to the approval of the County Health Department or
Department of Environmental Quality. The Health Department or Department of
Environmental Quality shall notify the developer and the Planning Commission in
writing of its findings.
   7.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided, except
where they are needed to provide for the separation of residential development
from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation.
   8.   Lots shall not be required for subdivision for commercial and
industrial use, but when provided, should be of appropriate size and
arrangement to provide for adequate off-street parking and loading facilities
based on the intended use. No individual parcel shall be created for a
particular commercial or industrial use that has an area, width or depth that
is less than is required for the permitted use under the applicable provisions
of the zoning ordinance.
§ 15-127 BLOCKS.
   1.   The dimensions and shape of blocks shall consider the following:
      a.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      b.   Zoning requirements (lot sizes and dimensions);
      c.   Convenient access, circulation, control and safety of street
traffic; and
      d.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   2.   Blocks for residential use shall not be longer than 1,800 feet,
measured along the centerline of the block.
   3.   Pedestrianways or crosswalks, not less than four feet wide or more than
ten feet in width, may be required by the Planning Commission through the
center of blocks more than 800 feet long, where deemed essential to provide
circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation
or other community facilities.
   4.   Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient width to
allow for two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business
and industrial use should be of a width suitable for the intended use, with due
allowance for off-street parking, loading and other service access facilities.
§ 15-128 BUILDING LINES.
   1.   Building lines shall be provided for all residential subdivisions, in
accordance with the applicable setback requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   2.   In residential areas, a side yard building line shall be provided not
less than five feet back of a crosswalk right-of-way line on the side of a lot
abutting a mid-block crosswalk or pedestrianway.
   3.   Where there is found to be a producing oil or gas well which is in or
within 150 feet of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision, or an abandoned
oil or gas well which is not adequately plugged according to the standards
established by state law and the State Corporation Commission (and so certified
by said Corporation Commission), and which is outside of the boundaries of a
proposed subdivision but within 150 feet thereof, there shall be a building
setback line so placed on the final plat so as to prevent the erection of any
building within 150 feet of such wells. Where there is found to be an abandoned
oil well which is adequately plugged according to the standards established by
state law and the State Corporation Commission, which well is within the
boundaries of a proposed subdivision, certificate or clearance from the State
Corporation Commission shall be obtained for each such well before the final
plat of the subdivision is approved.
§ 15-129 PUBLIC AREAS.
   1.   Except when an applicant utilizes planned development provisions,
whenever a tract to be subdivided includes a school, recreation uses (in excess
of the requirements of
§ 15-130), or other public use as indicated in the comprehensive plan or any
portion thereof, such space shall be incorporated by the applicant into his or
her preliminary plat. After proper determination of its necessity by the
Planning Commission and the appropriate local official or other agency involved
in the acquisition and use of such site, and after a determination has been
made to acquire the site by the public agency, the site shall be incorporated
by the applicant into the approved preliminary and final plats.
   2.   The Planning Commission shall discuss the proposed site acquisition,
and may propose alternate areas for such acquisition; the City Council shall
have 30 days for consideration. The final recommendation, if affirmative, shall
include a map showing the boundaries and area of the parcel to be acquired, and
an estimate of the time required to complete the acquisition.
   3.   Upon development of an affirmative report, the Planning Commission
shall notify the property owner and designate on the preliminary and final
plats that area proposed to be acquired by the public body.
   4.   The acquisition of land reserved by a public agency on the final plat
shall be initiated within 12 months of notification, in writing, from the owner
that he or she intends to develop the land. Such letter of intent shall be
accompanied by a site plan of the proposed development and a tentative schedule
of construction. Failure on the part of the public agency to initiate
acquisition within the prescribed 12 months shall result in the removal of the
reserved designation from the property involved and the freeing of the property
for development in accordance with these regulations.
§ 15-130 PARKS, OPEN SPACES AND NATURAL FEATURES.
   1.   Where, as indicated by the comprehensive plan, a proposed subdivision
contains, wholly or in part, a proposed public open space (parks, recreation
areas and the like), the following requirements shall apply.
      a.   In subdivisions containing 80 acres or more, the subdivider shall
make a dedication of suitable land for public purposes of not less than 2% of
the total land area of the subdivision.
      b.   In subdivisions containing less than 80 acres, the Planning
Commission shall require the dedication of 1% of the total land area, or shall
require the payment of a fee equal to the market value of 1% of the total land
area of the subdivision. Such fee is to be deposited in a fund reserved and
expended for park facilities and improvements only.
      c.   In lieu of either of the above standards, the subdivider may elect
to retain 2% of the total land area, to be designated as park or open spaces
and the like; such land shall be maintained by the subdivider or by agreement
of the purchasers of lots in the subdivision (formal agreement and/or
homeowners’ association formation required).
      d.   In no case will the subdivider dedicate land for public parks and
open spaces unless the city agrees to develop and maintain such parks or open
spaces.
   2.   Existing features which would definitely add value to residential
development or to the city as a whole, such as tree masses, watercourses,
landmarks, historic sites and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved
in the design of the subdivision, whenever possible. No trees shall be removed
from any subdivision, nor any change of grade of the land effected, until
approval of the preliminary plat has been granted. All trees on the plat
required to be retained shall be preserved, and all trees, where required,
shall be walled and protected against change of grade. The preliminary plat
shall show the number and location of existing trees and shall further indicate
all those marked for retention, as well as the location of all proposed trees
along the street side of each lot.
   3.   New trees provided in new subdivisions shall be approved by the
Planning Commission and shall be planted in accordance with all municipal
regulations. Only long-lived trees, acceptable to the Planning Commission,
shall be planted, consistent with the comprehensive plan.
   4.   The preliminary plat and final plat shall include an easement
authorizing the local government to plant trees within five feet of any
required access or right-of-way; this provision may be waived at the option of
the Planning Commission.
§ 15-131 NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   1.   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for commercial or
industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to such land,
shall be made according to such provisions as the Planning Commission may
require.
   2.   A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all of the
requirements of the zoning ordinance, as well as such additional standards as
may be required by the Planning Commission.
   3.   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission that
the street, parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the
uses anticipated, and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed.
      a.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      b.   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      c.   Special requirements may be imposed with respect to street, curb,
gutter and pedestrianway design and construction.
      d.   Special requirements may be imposed with respect to the installation
of public utilities, including water, sewer and storm water drainage.
      e.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent areas from the
potential nuisance of a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development, and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
      f.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
§ 15-132 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   Whenever a subdivision is developed as a planned development under the
appropriate provisions of the zoning ordinance, wherein adequate park or
recreation area is provided, through traffic is cared for adequately and the
majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac or loop type, the Planning
Commission may vary the design requirements of these regulations, in order to
allow the subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of streets and lots, but
at the same time protect the convenience, health, safety and welfare of the
entire community. In no case, however, shall the overall density, intensity of
use or land area coverage for the planned development exceed those minimums
established in the zoning ordinance for the district in which such uses would
normally be located.
§§ 15-133 THROUGH 15-140 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
IV: SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
§ 15-141 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   Any final plat or subdivision located within the Planning Commission’s
jurisdiction shall not be approved unless the developer or subdivider shall
provide the improvements specified in this article, or file surety bonds or
other acceptable guarantees, to insure the actual construction and maintenance
of such improvements, according to the principles and standards approved by the
City Council, and contained in these and other applicable regulations.
§ 15-142 IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE BONDS.
   1.   Such improvement and maintenance bonds, or other acceptable guarantees,
provided to ensure the installation and maintenance of the required
improvements shall:
      a.   Be in favor of the city;
      b.   Be in an amount equal to 100% of the cost of improvements,
installations and reasonable (one-year) maintenance thereof, as approved by the
City Council; and
      c.   Provide conditions satisfactory to the Planning Commission and the
City Council.
   2.   Improvement bonds shall be in force until and terminate 90 days after
the filing with the City Council of a completion affidavit obtained from the
office of the Municipal Building Inspector, unless within said 90 days, said
Building Inspector determines that the requirements, standards and
specifications of these regulations applicable to the construction,
installation and completion of said improvements have not been met. In such
case, the Municipal Building Inspector shall notify the applicant in writing,
by certified or registered mail, and the bond shall continue to run until the
filing of proof that the deficiencies have been corrected and all standards
met.
   3.   Maintenance bonds shall be in an amount equal to 25% of the cost of the
improvements or the engineer’s estimates of the cost of improvements, which
ever is greater. Maintenance bonds shall run for a period of one year from the
acceptance of the improvements or one year from the date of release of the
improvement bond.
(Ord. 12-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 15-143 PLANS REQUIRED.
   1.   Plans for the improvements required by this article shall be prepared
by a professional engineer, as required by state law.
   2.   One set of record plans, tracings and specifications, certified and
signed by an engineer registered in the state, shall be filed with the City
Clerk, prior to the acceptance by the City Council of any improvements
installed by the subdivider, consistent with state law.
§ 15-144 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   1.   All improvements shall be designed and installed so as to provide for a
logical system of utilities, drainage and streets, and to create continuity of
improvements for the development of adjacent properties.
   2.   The construction and installation of all improvements required by these
regulations shall be completed within two years of the date of approval of the
final plat by the Planning Commission, unless good cause can be shown for the
granting of an extension of time by authority of the Planning Commission or the
City Council.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 7-9-2024; Ord. 2025-05, passed 7-8-2025)
§ 15-145 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   1.   The developer of any subdivision shall install, within that
subdivision, permanent reference monuments and markers, placed flush with the
ground, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   2.   All monuments and markers shall be properly set in the ground and
approved by a registered land surveyor, prior to the time the Planning
Commission recommends approval of the final plat.
   3.   Existing monuments or markers shall not be disturbed, unless absolutely
necessary, in which case the monuments or markers shall be replaced at the
exact spot from which they were removed.
   4.   The location of all monuments and markers shall be included on the
final plat, including existing monuments and markers.
   5.   Three types of monuments and markers shall be used for different
situations. The following specifications shall be applicable to each type of
situation:
      a.   Type “A”: permanent reference monuments shall be placed at the
intersection of the centerlines of rights-of-way, regardless of whether the
paving of the street is centered in the right-of-way. There shall be a minimum
of one such monument in each subdivision, with an additional such monument
required for each 20 acres over the first 20 acres. If no two of the
intersection monuments are within line-of-sight of each other, an additional
marker shall be placed on the right-of-way centerline, so as to establish a
straight line which can be seen (line-of-sight) from one end to the other. An
additional such marker shall be placed at the center-point of the turnaround in
each cul-de-sac.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1701.png]
      b.   These monuments shall be of non-corrosive metal plate, set in
accordance with the accompanying diagram, and each shall be stamped with a
cross at the point of the intersection and the elevation, to the nearest tenth
of a foot.
§ 15-146 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   1.   The developer of any subdivision designed to be used for residential,
commercial or other purposes, shall lay out, grade and otherwise improve all
streets that are designated on the approved plat or that directly serve the
subdivision, in accordance with the standards and specifications of these and
other applicable regulations.
   2.   Streets shall conform in design and layout to the standards and
principles contained in the Subdivision Design, Article III of these
subdivision regulations.
   3.   Every lot within a subdivision shall have access to a public street or
an equivalent private street meeting statutory requirements. (Private streets,
where permitted, must comply with the improvements required of comparable
public streets, in accordance with state law.)
   4.   Whenever a subdivision contains a street that requires a street
facility that is more costly than is required to serve the future occupants of
the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay only the portion of
the cost of the street that would equal the cost of an improvement required to
serve only the subdivision, as determined by the Planning Commission and the
City Council.
   5.   Streets shall be designed, graded and improved to conform to the design
and construction specifications and diagrams contained in these subdivision
regulations. Construction plans for all street improvements shall be approved
by the City Council prior to final plat approval and filing.
   6.   Due to reduced street standards for subdivisions zoned for residential
estates development, a maximum of 40 acres should be served by one collector
street. Where such collector streets will serve more than 40 acres, the
Planning Commission may require higher quality street improvement standards be
met by said collector street.
   7.   In areas where alleys are required, they shall be constructed in
accordance with those standards and requirements which may be established by
the Planning Commission and the City Council.
§ 15-147 BRIDGES, CULVERTS AND LOW WATER CROSSINGS.
   1.   Bridges, culverts and low water crossings of primary benefit to the
developer, as determined by the Planning Commission, shall be constructed at
the full expense of the developer without reimbursement from municipal or
county government. The sharing of expense, as determined by the Planning
Commission, will be fixed by special agreement between municipal or county
government and the developer.
   2.   Bridges, culverts or low water crossings shall be provided where
watercourses cross continuous streets or alleys, and shall generally be sized
and constructed to accommodate the 100-year frequency rain, based on the
drainage area involved.
   3.   Design of bridges, low water crossings and culverts shall conform to
municipal construction specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1703.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1707.png]
Layout of Culs-De Sacs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1709.png]
Typical Sections for Paved Alleys
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1711.png]
Notes:
   a.   This standard shall apply to paved alleys, where required.
   b.   Residential alleys shall be 20 feet in width; commercial alleys shall
be 30 feet in width.
   c.   Alley shall slope from the outer edge to the centerline or centerline
to outer edge at one-fourth-inch fall per foot, as indicated.
   d.   Base shall vary in accordance with local conditions, including soil
tests.
§ 15-148 STREET AND REGULATORY SIGNS.
   1.   Street name signs shall be placed at all intersections, within or
abutting the subdivision, by the developer. All such signs shall be approved as
to type and location by the Planning Commission and the City Council.
   2.   The developer shall deposit with the City Clerk, at the time of
approval of the final plat for the subdivision, a sum to be based on a current
estimate by the Mayor, for each traffic-related regulatory sign required by the
City Council at road intersections. The city shall then install all such
regulatory signs within the subdivision, unless otherwise agreed to by the City
Council.
§ 15-149 STREET LIGHTS.
   Provisions shall be made by the developer for adequate lighting of public
streets within the proposed subdivision, in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the city.
§ 15-150 PEDESTRIANWAYS.
   1.   The developer of any subdivision, whether residential or nonresidential
in character, shall request a determination of the need for pedestrianways from
the Planning Commission, at the time of preliminary plat submission.
   2.   The Planning Commission, after reviewing the request, may require that
pedestrianways be constructed and suitably surfaced, to connect with existing
or future walkways in the area and provide for adequate pedestrian circulation.
   3.   A pedestrianways plan should consider the provision of adequate
pedestrianways within any subdivision or portion thereof, with consideration
given to walkway connections in areas adjacent to, or outside of, the
subdivision. Pedestrian approaches to such focal points as school sites,
recreation areas and parks should be provided for, in addition to
pedestrianways for normal circulation.
   4.   Pedestrianways shall be designed in accordance with the following
provisions.
      a.   Minimum paving section, where pedestrianways are required, shall be
four feet in width.
      b.   Pedestrianways shall be located within the dedicated, non-pavement,
right-of-way of all roads (if located within such right-of-way at all).
      c.   Provisions in
§ 15-127 (Blocks) of these regulations shall be met.
      d.   A median strip of grassed or landscaped area, at least two wide,
shall separate all pedestrianways from adjacent curbs.
   5.   Pedestrianway design and construction shall consider the guidelines for
the design and construction for the physically handicapped, contained in these
regulations.
§ 15-151 LANDSCAPING AND NATURAL FEATURES.
   1.   Existing natural features which would add value to residential
development (such as trees or watercourses) shall be considered for
preservation in the design of the subdivision. No trees shall be removed from
any proposed subdivision, nor any change of grade of the land made, until the
Planning Commission has approved the preliminary plat.
   2.   All natural features to be preserved shall be shown on the preliminary
plat.
   3.   All trees shall be walled and protected against change of grade,
wherever necessary.
   4.   New trees or landscaping to be provided by the developer, shall be
subject to review and approval by the Planning Commission, in accordance with
the city’s beautification policies and plans.
   5.   Applicable provisions of the city’s code of ordinances, as well as
§ 15-130 (Parks, Open Spaces and Natural Features) of these regulations, shall
be considered.
§ 15-152 WATER SYSTEM.
   1.   The developer shall install water lines and fire hydrants in accordance
with the standards and specifications of these and other applicable
regulations. In no case shall the use of flexible PVC pipe or any rigid plastic
with a wall thickness and strength of less than ASA Standard Schedule 40, be
allowed.
   2.   Action shall be taken by the developer to provide a water supply system
capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection. This system shall
provide an adequate supply of potable water to every lot in the subdivision.
   3.   Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions except those
approved for low-density zoning districts in which individual wells are to be
used. Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 600 feet apart and within 500
feet of any structure. To eliminate future street openings, all underground
utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves and all
other supply improvements, shall be installed before any final paving of a
street shown on the subdivision plat.
   4.   Where a public water main is accessible, the developer shall install
adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants), subject to the
specifications of municipal or rural water district requirements, as
appropriate or directed. All water mains shall be at least six inches in
diameter.
   5.   Water main extensions shall be approved by appropriate government
agencies.
   6.   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants, all water
supply improvements and the boundary lines of the area proposed to be served,
shall be shown on the preliminary plat. The cost of installing the same shall
be shown on the preliminary plat, and included in the improvement bond to be
furnished by the developer.
   7.   In subdivisions approved by the Planning Commission for low-density,
residential zoning districts, if a public water system is not available,
individual wells may be used or a central water system provided in such a
manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to every lot
in the subdivision. Water samples shall be submitted to the State Department of
Environmental Quality for its approval, and individual wells and central water
systems shall be approved by said State Health Department.
   8.   If the Planning Commission requires that a connection to a public water
main be eventually provided as a condition for approval of an individual well
or central water system, the applicant shall make arrangements (including the
provision of necessary dedicated easements for future water service) at the
time the final plat receives final approval. Improvement or cash bonds may be
required to insure compliance.
   9.   Locator wires shall be placed at each meter and valve along all water
lines.
   10.   Lines shall be buried a minimum depth of 30 inches.
§ 15-153 SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   1.   In accordance with the standards and specifications of these and other
applicable regulations, the subdivider shall install sanitary sewers whenever a
sanitary sewer system is reasonably accessible, as determined by the city’s
code of ordinances or the Planning Commission. If a public sanitary sewer is
placed in a street or alley abutting any property, the owner thereof shall be
required to connect to said sewer for the purpose of waste disposal, and it
shall be unlawful for any such owner or occupant to maintain upon any such
property an individual sewage disposal system, consistent with the code of
ordinances of the city.
   2.   Whenever a sanitary sewer is not reasonably accessible, septic tanks or
other unit disposal systems may be used; provided, that, such systems comply
with the requirements of the State Department of Environmental Quality and are
not located within 20 feet of the lot line of the lot on which the system is
located. Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will
not become available for a period in excess of five years, the applicant may
install sewage systems as follows.
      a.   Medium-density residential districts. Central sewerage system only;
no individual disposal systems will be permitted. Where plans exist for a
public sewer system to be built in a greater period than five years, the
applicant shall install all sewer lines, laterals and mains to be in permanent
conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such public sewer main.
      b.   Low-density residential districts. Individual disposal systems or
central sewerage systems may be used; however, easements for future use shall
be included on the final plat.
   3.   All sanitary sewer improvements shall be designed by an engineer
registered in the state and shall be approved by the City Council, the Planning
Commission, the State Department of Environmental Quality and other appropriate
agencies. Sanitary sewer design shall be in accordance with the design criteria
for sanitary sewers in this article. In no case shall the use of flexible PVC
pipe or any rigid plastic pipe with a wall thickness and strength of less than
SDR 35 be allowed. Locator wires shall be placed at all main connections.
   4.   When required, or proposed sanitary sewer improvements correspond with
recommended improvements contained in the city’s comprehensive plan (or other
approved sanitary sewer report or document), said facility shall be designed in
accordance with said plan or report.
   5.   When an improvement required by the comprehensive plan (or other
approved sanitary sewer report or document), exceeds the capacity needed to
serve the proposed development, the city may participate in the excess cost of
such facility, in accordance with said city’s adopted utility extension
policies.
   6.   In low and medium density residential districts, where a public
sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible, and will become available
within a reasonable time (not to exceed five years), the developer may choose
one of the following alternatives.
      a.   Central sewerage system. (Maintenance cost to be assessed against
each property benefitted.) Where plans for future public sanitary sewerage
systems exist, the developer shall install the sewer lines, laterals and mains
to be in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such
public sewer mains.
      b.   Individual disposal systems. The developer shall install sanitary
sewer lines, laterals and mains from the easement or alley to a point in the
subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public sewer main shall
be made, in addition to allowing the use of individual systems on each site. As
a condition of building permit approval on each housing unit in such an area,
sewer lines shall be placed from the house to the street lines, and a
connection shall be available in the home to connect from the individual
disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers become available.
Such sewer systems shall be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all
plans for installation of the public sewer system, where such exist, and shall
be ready for connection to such public sewer main.
   7.   Sewage collection and disposal systems in high density residential and
nonresidential districts shall connect with public sanitary sewerage systems.
Sewers shall be installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes required by
local officials and approving agencies. No individual disposal systems or
treatment plants (private or group disposal systems) shall be permitted.
Sanitary sewerage facilities (including the installation of laterals in the
right-of-way) shall at all times be subject to the specifications, rules,
regulations and guidelines of the city and the State Department of
Environmental Quality.
   8.   If public sewer facilities are not available and individual disposal
systems are proposed, minimum lot areas shall conform to the requirements of
the zoning ordinance, and percolation tests and test holes shall be made as
directed by the Municipal Building Inspector and the results submitted to the
State Department of Environmental Quality. The individual disposal system,
including the size of the septic tanks and size of the tile fields or other
secondary treatment devices, shall also be approved by the Municipal Building
Inspector, and be in accordance with state statutes.
§ 15-154 DESIGN CRITERIA FOR SANITARY SEWERS.
   1.   Variances. These design criteria are not intended to cover
extraordinary situations. Variances may be allowed or may be required in those
instances where considered justified by the City Council.
   2.   Design factors. Sanitary sewer systems should be designed for the
ultimate tributary population. Due consideration should be given to current
regulations and reports, where applicable. Sewer capacities should be adequate
to handle the anticipated maximum hourly quantity of sewerage and industrial
waste, together with an adequate allowance for infiltration and other
extraneous flow.
   3.   Maximum size. The diameter of sewers proposed shall not exceed the
diameter of the existing or proposed outlet, whichever is applicable, unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Commission.
   4.   Minimum size. No public sewer shall be less than eight inches in
diameter, except that the use of six inch diameter sewer may be permitted in
situations where it cannot be extended and no more than 400 feet will be
installed in any one place.
   5.   Velocity of flow.
      a.   All sewers shall be designed and constructed with hydraulic slopes
sufficient to give mean velocities, when flowing full, of not less than two
feet per second (based on Kutter’s on Manning’s formula, using an “n” value of
0.013). Use of other practical “n” values will be approved for the longer pipe
sections, if deemed justifiable on the basis of researcher field data
presented. The following are the minimum slopes which should be provided,
especially where the depth of flow may be small, and are desirable minimal in
all parts of the system:
Minimum Slopes for Sewer Sizes
Sewer Size (inches) Minimum Slope in Feet Per 100 Feet
Minimum Slopes for Sewer Sizes
Sewer Size (inches) Minimum Slope in Feet Per 100 Feet
8                   0.40
10                  0.29
12                  0.22
14                  0.17
16                  0.15
18                  0.14
21                  0.10
24                  0.08
 
      b.   Under special conditions, if full and justifiable reasons are given,
slopes slightly less than those required for the two-foot per second velocity,
when full, may be permitted. Such decreased slopes will only be considered
where the depth of flow will be 0.3 of the diameter or greater for design
average flow. Whenever such decreased slopes are selected, the engineer must
furnish with his or her report his or her computations of the depths of flow in
such pipes at minimum, average and peak rates of flow. It is recognized that
such flatter grades may cause additional sewer maintenance expense and odor
nuisance. The selection of the size of pipe shall be determined on the basis of
the most desirable flow characteristic obtainable.
   6.   Alignment. All sewers shall be laid with straight alignment between
manholes, unless otherwise directed or approved by the Planning Commission or
the City Council.
   7.   Manhole location. Manholes shall be installed:
      a.   At the end of each line;
      b.   At all changes in grade, size or alignment;
      c.   At all intersections; and
      d.   At distances not greater than 400 feet for sewers 15 inches and
smaller, and 500 feet for sewers 18 inches in diameter and larger.
   8.   Manholes. The difference in elevation between an incoming sewer and the
manhole invert shall not exceed 12 inches except where required to match
crowns. The use of drop manholes will require approval by the City Council. The
minimum inside diameter of the manholes shall conform to those specified by the
City Council or the Planning Commission. Inside drop manholes will require
special considerations; however, in no case shall the minimum clear distance be
less than that indicated above. When a smaller sewer joins a larger one, the
crown of the smaller sewer shall not be lower than that of the larger one. The
minimum drop through manholes shall be 0.2 feet.
   9.   Sewerage locations. Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or
alley rights-of-way, unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in
easements on private property, legal public access shall be available to all
manholes. A manhole shall be provided at each street or alley crossing. End
lines shall be extended to provide access from street or alley rights-of-way
where possible. Imposed loading shall be considered in all locations. Not less
than six feet of cover shall be provided over the top of pipe in street and
alley rights-of-way, or four feet in all other areas.
   10.   Water supply interconnections. There shall be no physical connection
between a public or private potable water supply system and a sewer, which will
permit the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the potable supply.
Sewers shall be kept removed from water supply wells and other water supply
sources and structures.
   11.   Relation of sewers to water mains. A minimum horizontal distance of
ten feet shall be maintained between parallel water and sewer lines. At points
where sewers cross water mains, the sewer shall be constructed of cast iron
pipe or encased in concrete for a distance of ten feet in each direction from
the crossing, measured perpendicular to the water line. This will not be
required when the water main is at least two feet above the sewer.
§ 15-155 STORM DRAINAGE AND FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   1.   All subdivisions of land shall comply with the design and improvement
requirements herein established for the protection of flood hazard areas and
the prevention of erosion.
   2.   For the purpose of these regulations, drainage shall be classified as
follows:
      a.   SURFACE DRAINAGE is runoff of such a limited quantity and/or slow
rate that it does not cause erosion of a defined channel;
      b.   A MINOR TRIBUTARY is any drainage channel having a drainage basin of
640 acres (one square mile) or less in area;
      c.   A MAJOR TRIBUTARY is any channel having a drainage basin of not less
than one square mile or greater than 25 square miles; and
      d.   A RIVER is any channel having a drainage basin of greater than 25
square miles.
   3.   Responsibility for drainage shall be allocated as follows, unless
otherwise designated:
      a.   The developer of a subdivision is responsible for the following:
         (1)   All surface drainage in the subdivision;
         (2)   All increase in surface drainage outside the subdivision which
results from the development of the subdivision;
         (3)   The improvement of all minor tributaries lying within the
subdivision;
         (4)   Any significant increase in the rate or quantity of runoff in
any minor or major tributary, or river, which results from the development of
the subdivision; and
         (5)   Provision for the maintenance of all floodway and floodway-
fringe areas of major tributaries and rivers which have not been dedicated to
the public.
      b.   The city and other levels of governments will be responsible for the
following:
         (1)   The improvement of floodways of major tributaries;
         (2)   The improvement of river floodways; and
         (3)   The maintenance of floodway and floodway-fringe areas dedicated
to the public.
   4.   Flood hazard areas are designated on the adopted, official zoning
district map of the city. The boundaries of all floodway and floodway-fringe
areas shall be designated on preliminary and final plats, and shall be clearly
marked.
   5.   For all areas not otherwise designated in a floodway or floodway-fringe
area, the developer shall be responsible for having an engineer (registered in
the state) prepare a drainage assessment of all of the area of the proposed
subdivision, and all areas affected by runoff resulting from development of the
proposed subdivision, in accordance with the following provisions.
      a.   The 100-year maximum flood shall be used as the basis for the sizing
of all drainage channels, bridges and other structures, unless otherwise
specified herein.
      b.   The calculation of all runoff shall be based on saturated
development of the drainage basin for minor tributaries and surface drainage,
as reflected in the comprehensive plan, and shall be based on the maximum
degree of development, as reflected in the comprehensive plan, for the drainage
basin of a major tributary or river.
      c.   The calculation of stream flow and runoff characteristics of the
subdivision shall be carried out in consultation with the Planning Commission
and the City Council, and the methodology and formulas used shall result in
quantities which would be not less than those derived from the application of
the following formulas and values:
         (1)   Runoff from all drainage areas shall be not less than that
determined by the Rational Formula:
               Q = AIR
            Where:
               Q = Cubic feet per second;
               A = Area to be drained in acres, determined by field surveys for
areas less than 640 acres, and by latest government (USGS) quadrangle maps for
larger areas;
               I = Percent of imperviousness of the area; this may vary between
40% and 95%, but no value of less than 50% may be used for saturated urban
development; and
               R = Rate of rainfall over the entire drainage area in inches per
hour, based on the time of concentration and latest government records for the
area.
         (2)   The size of closed storm sewers, open channels, culverts and
bridges shall not be less than that determined by using the Manning Formula:
               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/IMAGES/0-0-0-1715.png]
               Where:
                  Q = Discharge in cubic feet per second;
                  A = Cross-sectional area of water in conduit (in square
feet);
                  r = Hydraulic radius of water in conduit;
                  s = Mean slope of hydraulic gradient, in feet of vertical
rise per foot of horizontal distance; and
                  N = Roughness coefficient, based on condition and type of
material of conduit lining, but not less than 0.013.
   6.   All floodways located within the subdivision shall be designated by the
developer as flowage easements and shall be maintained as permanent open space
for private recreation or agriculture for which no buildings or structures are
required, or dedicated to the public for drainage, recreation and utility use.
   7.   All floodway-fringe areas shall be planned for uses which are permitted
in the appropriate district of the zoning ordinance, and in no case shall the
proposed use or construction cause a displacement of flood water in the
floodway-fringe that will increase flooding in other areas of the floodway or
floodway-fringe.
   8.   When it is determined by the Planning Commission that the development
of the subdivision will significantly increase runoff in the flood hazard area
or will otherwise adversely affect storm water runoff, the Planning Commission
may require any or all of the following to the extent needed to reduce the
adverse effects of the development.
      a.   The existing floodway lying within or immediately adjacent to the
subdivision shall be cleaned to provide for the free flow of water, and the
channel shall be straightened, widened and improved to the extent required to
prevent overflow beyond the limits of the floodway.
      b.   Site improvement shall provide for the grading of all building sites
and streets to an elevation where all lots, building areas and streets will not
be subject to overflow, and in a manner that will provide for the rapid runoff
of all rainfall; however, such improvements shall be carried out in a manner
that will preserve and protect large trees and attractive physical features of
the area.
      c.   Whenever channel improvement is carried out, sodding, backsloping,
cribbing and other bank protection shall be designed and constructed to control
erosion for all the anticipated conditions of flow for the segment of channel
involved.
      d.   A drainage channel shall not be located in a street easement, unless
it is placed in an enclosed storm sewer, or unless a paved street surface is
provided on both sides of a paved channel to give access to abutting
properties.
      e.   Culverts, bridges and other drainage structures shall be constructed
in accordance with the specifications of the city, at all locations where
drainage channels intersect with continuous streets or alleys.
   9.   All minor tributary and surface drainage channels located within the
subdivision shall be improved in accordance with the standards set forth on the
following pages of these regulations, or other equivalent standards, as
determined by the City Council. All channels shall be designed to carry a 100-
year maximum flood, shall be designed for self-cleaning and ease of
maintenance, shall have sufficient hard surface along the flow line to prevent
ponding of water, and shall have design characteristics of alignment, with
materials of construction and cross-sectioned elements that will be
hydraulically efficient and visually harmonious with the adjacent landscape.
   10.   Enclosed storm sewers may be required by the City Council where
special or unusual conditions make open channels hazardous or otherwise
unfeasible.
   11.   Site grading shall be carried out in such a manner that surface water
from each lot shall flow directly to a storm sewer, improved channel or paved
street without crossing more than two adjacent lots.
   12.   Surface water collected on streets shall be diverted to storm drains
at satisfactory intervals to prevent overflow of six inch-high curbs during a
50-year frequency rain for the area and grades involved; provided, that, in no
case shall the drainage area served by any street exceed 20 acres, regardless
of the amount of flow.
   13.   Drainage easements of satisfactory width to provide working room for
construction and maintenance shall be provided for all storm sewers. In no case
shall the total easement be less than 20 feet.
   14.   Closed storm sewers shall be constructed of pre-cast or pre-fabricated
pipe or built in place, of closed box design, to conform with municipal
construction specifications to serve a 100-year frequency rain for the drainage
area involved.
   15.   Bridges or culverts shall be provided where watercourses cross
continuous streets or alleys, shall be sized to accommodate a 100-year
frequency rain (based on the drainage area involved), and shall be designed in
conformance with municipal construction specifications.
   16.   Open, paved, storm drainage channels shall be constructed in
accordance with municipal construction specifications. Side slopes above the
paved section shall be shaped and sodded on a slope of four horizontal to one
vertical, or flatter. Fences shall be outside of the 100-year frequency
flooding line, shall not be erected below the shoulder of the sodded section
and in no case shall fences be closer than six feet (measured horizontally) to
the edge of the paved section. Hand-laid rip-rap may be substituted for sodded
shoulders where desired.
Improved Drainage Channels: I and II
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.png]
General Specifications
1.   Use of sloping walls or straight walls is optional.
2.   Construction of concrete lining shall conform to specifications.
3.   Straight walls shall be designed to withstand earth pressures.
4.   Sloping walls shall have slope ratio of 1 horizontal to 1 vertical or
flatter.
5.   Sodded slope ratio shall be 4 horizontal to 1 vertical or flatter.
Improved Drainage Channels: III and IV
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1719.png]
General Specifications
1.   Use of sloping walls or straight walls is optional.
2.   Construction of concrete lining shall conform to specifications.
3.   Straight walls shall be designed to withstand earth pressures.
4.   Sloping walls shall have slope ratio of 1 horizontal to 1 vertical or
flatter.
5.   Sodded slope ratio shall be 4 horizontal to 1 vertical or flatter.
Improved Drainage Channel: V
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1721.png]
General Specifications
1.   Construction of concrete lining shall conform to specifications.
2.   Sloping walls shall have slope ratio of 1 horizontal to 1 vertical or
flatter.
3.   Sodded slope ratio shall be 4 horizontal to 1 vertical or flatter.
Improved Drainage Channel: VI
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1723.png]
General Specifications
1.   Slopes back of curb shall have a ratio of 4 horizontal to 1 vertical or
flatter.
2.   Slopes shall be sodded uniformly to permit mowing.
3.   Concrete construction shall conform to specifications.
4.   This section shall be constructed only in those locations outlined in
general policies and requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1725.png]
Details of Turnouts for Standards Storm Sewer Inlets
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e99d20d2df817e7755eddf9335c1adc945b8960b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1727.png]
   17.   a.   The city reserves the right to require:
         (1)   Improvements;
         (2)   The provision of drainage easements; and
         (3)   The provision of agreements beyond the boundaries of the
subdivision, to facilitate flow of water through the addition, to avoid
probability of lawsuits (based on damage from changed runoff in the
subdivision), and to provide continuous improvements of the overall storm
drainage system.
      b.   The following kinds of improvements may be required:
         (1)   Enlargement of undersized drainage structures to provide free
flow;
         (2)   Removal of obstructions;
         (3)   Straightening of channels;
         (4)   Widening or deepening of channels;
         (5)   Construction of erosion control structures;
         (6)   Backsloping, sodding and/or rip-rapping of bank; or
         (7)   Construction of closed or open, paved storm sewers for the
purposes of closing gaps or continuation of the overall storm sewer system.
   18.   Property owner agreements, where required, shall be designed to
protect the city from law suits for damage caused by changed runoff conditions.
   19.   When subdivision development will result in increased runoff beyond
the boundaries of the subdivision, which cannot be accommodated through channel
improvements without causing downstream flooding, the Planning Commission may
require the construction of one or more retention reservoirs on the subdivision
which will temporarily impound and discharge water from the subdivision site at
the rate and volume equivalent to the discharge from the undeveloped
subdivision site. The design shall be for a 100-year frequency flood. Plans
shall be approved by the City Council. The construction and maintenance of
retention reservoirs shall be the responsibility of the developer.
ARTICLE 6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§§ 15-156 THROUGH 15-199 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 7: PENALTY
§ 15-200 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any amount not exceeding the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 16: PUBLIC FACILITIES AND UTILITIES
Section
Article 1: Municipal Utility Systems
   
16-1   Municipal utility systems
   
16-2   Use of municipal utility systems
   
16-3   Operation of municipal utility systems
   
16-4 through 16-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Municipal Water System
   
16-20   Water connections
   
16-21   Mandatory use of municipal water system
   
16-22   Tampering with or injuring municipal water system
   
16-23   Water rates, fees and charges
   
16-24   Sale of potable water to customers outside the city limits
   
16-25 through 16-39 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Municipal Sewer System
   
16-40   Use of municipal sewer system
   
16-41   Mandatory sewer connections
   
16-42   Private sewage disposal facilities
   
16-43   Sewer rates and fees
   
16-44 through 16-59 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Municipal Solid Waste System
   
16-60   Collection and disposal declared to be a municipal function
   
16-61   Purpose
   
16-62   Definitions
   
16-63   Accumulation a nuisance; containers
   
16-64   Burning of solid waste
   
16-65   Charges for solid waste collection and disposition
   
16-66 through 16-79 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Municipal Park and Recreational Facilities
   
16-80   Cache city parks rules and regulations
   
16-81   Penalty
Article 6: Municipal Cemetery
   
16-100 through 16-119 Reserved for future use
Article 7: Municipal Library System
   
16-120 through 16-139 Reserved for fixture use
Article 8: Fire Department Pumper Fee
   
16-140   Establishment of Fire Department pumper fee
Article 9: Industrial Wastes
   
16-141   Prohibited discharges
   
16-142   New sewers and connections
   
16-143   User charge schedule
   
16-144   Excessive strength charges
   
16-145   Review and revision
   
16-146   Toxic pollutants charges
   
16-147   Notification
   
16-148   Charges for extraneous flows
   
16-149   Records
   
16-150   Billing
   
16-151 through 16-169 Reserved for future use
Article 10: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
16-170   Turning on utilities
   
16-171   No service connection until bills have been paid; cut-offs
   
16-172   Customers to keep service pipes in good repair
   
16-173   City not responsible for utility interruption
   
16-174   Municipal personnel may inspect private premises
   
16-175   Interference with fire hydrants; damage of utility system
   
16-176 through 16-199 Reserved for future use
Article 10: Penalty
   
16-200   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS
§ 16-1 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   1.   The city provides water, sewer and solid waste services for the
residents of said municipality.
   2.   Water and sewer services are operated through the Cache Public Works
Authority, a municipal trust of which said city is the beneficiary; said trust
shall have control over the operation, maintenance and administration of said
systems and services. Solid waste collection and disposal is the responsibility
of the city.
§ 16-2 USE OF MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   Every residential inhabitant within the corporate limits of the city and
every commercial or business entity or enterprise who may practically do so,
shall secure all of its potable water requirements from the water system owned
by said city and leased to the Cache Public Works Authority; connect to the
sanitary sewer system owned by said city and leased to said Authority, and not
otherwise dispose of sewage, unless it is impossible or not feasible to do so;
and utilize the municipal solid waste collection and disposal system, unless
said service is not offered.
§ 16-3 OPERATION OF MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   1.   The operations of the municipal water and sewer systems shall be the
responsibility of the Cache Public Works Authority; said Authority shall have
the power to establish fees, rates, deposits, charges and such other rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the efficient operation of these systems.
   2.   The operators of the municipal solid waste collection and disposal
system shall be the City Council; said Board shall have the authority to
establish fees, charges and operational procedures and regulations as may be
necessary for efficient operation of the system, and to ensure continued
operation of the Cache Authority, or any other trust of which the city is a
member, participant or beneficiary.
   3.   Administrative processes for all systems may be combined for more
efficient operation, at the discretion of the City Council and the Cache Public
Works Authority Board.
   4.   Ordinances relating to these municipal utility systems shall be
applicable, whenever possible, to all municipal utility systems, including
those operated by the Public Works Authority.
§§ 16-4 THROUGH 16-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
§ 16-20 WATER CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make a
connection to the municipal water system without first complying with all
applicable provisions of this code of ordinances and all requirements of the
Cache Public Works Authority.
§ 16-21 MANDATORY USE OF MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   1.   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, education, recreation or other purposes, situated within
the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is
now located, or may in the future be located, a municipal water line, are
hereby required, at their expense, to connect their facility with the proper
municipal water line (in accordance with all municipal requirements) and pay
all municipal fees and use charges therefor, within 30 days after the date of
official municipal notice to do so; provided, that, the municipal water line is
within 300 feet of the property line.
      a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy any structure designed
or built for human occupancy without an active water service to it.
      b.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any structure, designed or
built for human occupancy to allow the occupancy of that structure by any
person unless there is active water service to the structure.
      c.   Active water service means water service to the structure itself and
does not mean the temporary disruption of water service due to temporary
repairs being made to the owner’s water line or the city’s water line.
   2.   It shall be hereinafter unlawful for any person to maintain or
establish a private water well to serve a facility, unless said person shall
first be connected to the municipal water system and pay the monthly water fees
and charges; provided, that, said person also meets all the requirements for
mandatory hook-up established in subsection 1. above.
   3.   No unauthorized person shall make any connections with any municipal
water line without first having made application therefor to the City Clerk-
Treasurer, and without first having paid the established fee.
   4.   Where a municipal water line does not lie within 300 feet of the
property line, or is not scheduled to be placed within 300 feet of the property
line in the near future (one to five years), an individual may utilize or
establish a private water well without connection to the municipal water system
and therefore, without payment of the municipal water system fees and charges.
   5.   The requirements of this section shall not apply to persons currently
being served directly by an existing rural water district.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 16-22 TAMPERING WITH OR INJURING MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface, or in any way
tamper with, any portion of the municipal water system, or to turn the water
off or on from any main at any time or place, unless said person is duly
authorized so to do by the Cache Public Works Authority.
§ 16-23 WATER RATES, FEES AND CHARGES.
   1.   The following rates shall be in effect for the water service provided
by the Cache Public Works Authority (except as this schedule may be affected or
altered by the user charge system in
Article 9 of this chapter):
      a.   First   0 to 1,000 gallons, $21.22;
      b.   Next   1,001 to 5,000 gallons, $4.24;
      c.   Next   5,001 to 10,000 gallons, $4.56;
      d.   Next   10,001 to 15,000 gallons, $4.88;
      e.   Next   15,001 to 20,000 gallons, $5.20;
      f.   Next   20,001 to 25,000 gallons, $5.52;
      g.   Next   25,001 to 30,000 gallons, $5.84;
      h.   Next   30,001 and above to $6.15
   2.   Deposits for water and sewer service shall be $75 for owner/occupant
service connections. The deposits for water and sewer service connection other
than owner/occupant shall be $175.
      a.   Deposits for water service are subject to an increase. The first
time water service is cut off for non-payment the consumer will be issued a
written warning, advising his or her deposit will be increased the next time
water service is terminated (cut off) due to non-payment. After the second
interruption of water service for non-payment of the same consumer, deposits
for water service shall be increased an additional $150.
      b.   The written warning will be issued at the time water service is
reestablished from being cut off the first time.
      c.   There shall be a $250 deposit for water and sewer service for all
commercial accounts.
   3.   Water service payments shall be due on the sixteenth of the month
following billing; shut off notices shall be sent if overdue amounts are not
paid by the sixteenth of the month; service shall be disconnected by the third
of the month after notice has been delivered. There will be a $25 disconnect
fee, and $25 re-connect fee. There will be a penalty of 15% of the unpaid
balance in excess of $10 of the user’s water bill in addition to the regular
water bill charge if the water bill is not paid on or before the sixteenth day
of the month.
      a.   City water service shall not be provided to any residential
commercial or other structure where there remains an unpaid water bill owed to
the city for said residence, commercial building or structure.
      b.   The City Council may use or employ any lawful means to collect
unpaid water bills to include, but not limited to, collection agencies, and all
fees and charges incurred in collecting unpaid water bills shall be added to
the outstanding water bill, and until the water bill, fees, charges and cost
have been paid in full there will be no city water service to said residence,
commercial building or structure.
   4.   The charges for municipal water service shall be as follows:
      a.   The minimum charge, per meter, per month, shall be $18.50;
      b.   A water distribution system enhancement and pumping fee of $14 per
meter, per month, shall be applied to all water service connections of the
municipally-owned water distribution system; and
      c.   A surcharge per meter, per month, of $5 shall be added, for water
service outside the city limits.
   5.   Water connections and tap fees for installation of water service from
the main to the property line, including installation of a meter and cut-off,
shall be as follows:
      a.   Three-fourths inch, $650;
      b.   Over three-fourths inch and up to one inch, $750;
      c.   Larger than one inch but not more than two inches, $1,300; and
      d.   All other cost associated with making a water tap connection, to
include, but not limited to, street boring, curb cuts, encasements and the like
shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
   6.   There shall be a connection fee of $25 for new water service
connections from existing waterlines for new and existing customers for each
address where the water service is requested.
   7.   There shall be a $10 fee for the transfer of existing water service
from one address or location to another by existing or new water service
customers.
   8.   Reduction in rates for senior citizens and the low-income disabled on
water, sewer and refuse monthly charges.
      a.   A reduction in rates of $8.50 shall be made for each single-family
dwelling unit occupied by:
         (1)   An individual head of household 65 years of age or older with a
combined annual gross household income of $15,000 or less; or
         (2)   An individual head of household regardless of age who is
disabled as defined in this section and whose combined annual gross household
income is $15,000 or less. DISABLED means an adult person having a physical or
mental impairment which prevents gainful employment for one year or longer, and
has documentation of such impairment from a recognized agency, such as, but not
limited to, Social Security, Veterans Administration, Civil Service, private
insurance company, pension fund or other documentation acceptable to the city.
      b.   Before such reduction is allowed, the person shall certify to the
city on a form prescribed by the city, his or her, age, income, and that the
applicant is the head of the household or the spouse of the head of the
household, and the address of the single-family dwelling unit or which the
application is made. In addition, qualified persons shall provide documentation
which shows that the applicant or his or her spouse meets the criteria of age,
income or disability. Such certification shall be made at the initial
application and shall be renewed annually during the month of June of each
year. Billings for the month of July and months thereafter, where although
subsequent reapplication may occur, credit for lost months, at the regular
rate, shall not be given. Application and reapplication, as previously
outlined, shall be required. The reduction shall be applicable to single-family
dwelling units within mobile home parks, apartments and other multi-family
dwellings where each unit has a separate water meter.
      c.   This reduction applies to all city utility bills for services
provided inside city limits.
      d.   Any person making a false or incorrect certification under this
section shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in accordance with
Chapter 11, Article 3, §
11-50 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 3-21-2011; Ord. 11-09, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 11-11, passed
7-11-2011; Ord. 12-03, passed 2-6-2011; Ord. 14-4, passed 4-14-2014; Ord. 16-
02, passed 6-13-2016; Ord. 2021-04, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 21-08, passed 11-8-
2021; Ord. 2022-03, passed 5-9-2022; Ord. 22-08, passed 10-11-2022; Ord. 23-12,
passed 12-11-2023; Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-11-2023)
§ 16-24 SALE OF POTABLE WATER TO CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS.
   1.   Type of connections. To accommodate the various type of arrangements,
different procedures and agreements shall be used. The alternate arrangements
are:
      a.   Alternate A, single residential or commercial service. This
alternate provides for a single residential or commercial connection and meter
for a customer where the property served is located outside of the city limits
at the time the connection is made; and
      b.   Alternate B, multiple residential and/or commercial services where
main line is to be dedicated to the city. This alternate provides for multiple
residential and/or commercial connections and meters to a main waterline
constructed by the customers desiring service with the main waterline to be
dedicated to the city.
   2.   Policies and procedures.
      a.   General. The following items apply to all customers desiring service
regardless of the type of arrangement.
         (1)   All cost shall be borne and paid by the customer(s) applying for
service. These cost may include, but are not limited to: materials; labor;
engineering; inspection; permit fees to the State Department of Health, city,
State Department of Transportation, County Commissioners; and the like.
         (2)   Meters for individual service shall be purchased and installed
by the city. Payment for the meter shall be part of the normal connection fee
charged by the city when connecting a customer to the water system. The city
shall retain full ownership and maintenance responsibility of the meter.
         (3)   All water service to the customer(s) outside of the city limits
shall be provided in accordance with an agreement executed by the customer(s)
and the President of the City Council after approval by the City Council. A
blank copy of an agreement for each alternate service type shall be made
available in the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
         (4)   The agreement may be amended from time to time only with the
written approval of all parties to the agreement.
         (5)   If the property is annexed into the city limits, after
installation of the water supply facilities, the agreement is null and void.
After the effective date of annexation of the city code and ordinances in
effect at the time of annexation pertaining to water service inside the city
limits shall then apply.
         (6)   Charges for water service shall be based on the rates
established by the City Council. These rates will change from time to time, and
the city reserves the right to establish separate or higher rates for customers
outside of the city limits.
         (7)   Sale of water to customers outside of the city limits does not
establish a right on the part of City Council to regulate or in any way enforce
any other regulations on those customers outside of the city limits.
         (8)   Placement of all water service facilities including waterlines,
service lines, taps, meters, valves and the like shall be on private land. No
facilities shall be placed on city, county, state or federal land or street or
road right-of-way or statutory easements. The only exception shall be when it
is necessary to cross street or road right-of-way or statutory easement. Then
the crossing must be as close to perpendicular to the right-of-way or statutory
easement centerline as practical.
         (9)   All requirements and standards of the Oklahoma State Department
of Health (OSDH), if applicable, shall be met regarding the design and
installation of all waterline and water service facilities.
         (10)   If a condition arises resulting in an extended period of
insufficient water supply to meet the demands of the city’s customers located
in the city limits, the City Council may, by enactment of a resolution,
discontinue on a temporary or permanent basis the sale of water outside the
city limits.
      b.   Alternate A, single residential or commercial service.
         (1)   An individual water service may be authorized for a single
residential or commercial customer. The residential service shall be no larger
than one-inch. The size of the commercial service shall be no larger than
required to service the commercial business applying for service.
         (2)   The connection to the city waterline shall be made as close to
the property to be serviced as possible. The meter shall be set near the city
waterline within the city’s easement. All service line materials on the
customer’s side of the meter shall remain property of the customer. Maintenance
responsibility for these materials shall remain with the customer. All service
line materials on the city’s side of the meter, including meter, angle valve,
meter box, service taps and corporation stop at the main and the like shall be
the maintenance responsibility of the city.
         (3)   Tapping of the city’s waterline shall be done only by the city’s
Water Superintendent.
      c.   Alternate B, multiple residential and/or commercial services where
main line is to be dedicated to the city.
         (1)   Extension of an existing city waterline may be authorized for
multiple residential and/or commercial customers. The customers to be served by
the waterline extension shall form an association. All agreements and dealing
between the city and the customers shall take place through a single
representative appointed by the association.
         (2)   Before an agreement is executed between the association and the
city a determination of sufficient water supply and distribution system
capacity must first be made by the city’s Engineer. The association shall pay
the city for the engineer’s services before the determination will be made. The
engineer shall make a recommendation to the City Council as to sufficient
capacity, but the City Council shall make the final determination of whether to
provide water service to the association.
         (3)   The association shall hire a private engineer to prepare plans,
specifications and OSDH construction permit application for the waterline
extension in accordance with OSDH requirements. The association shall pay the
OSDH construction permit fee.
         (4)   The waterline extension shall be made in easements secured and
paid for by the association on forms approved by the city’s Attorney. The city
shall be made owner of the easements. Easement widths shall be established by
the City Water Superintendent, but in no case shall they be less than ten feet
in width when located adjacent to an existing easement or right-of-way and
wider in all other cases.
         (5)   Installation of the waterline extension shall be done by either
a contractor experienced in waterline construction or a plumber licensed in the
state.
         (6)   Inspection of the waterline extension will be provided by the
city’s Engineer and Water Superintendent. The association shall reimburse the
city of the engineer’s inspection charges.
         (7)   Individual service connections to the new waterline extension
shall be made by the city’s Water Superintendent after the waterline facilities
are dedicated to the city by the association. The meter will be set as close to
the property to be served as possible within the easement. All service line
materials on the city’s side of the meter, including meter, angle valve, meter
box, service tap and corporation stop at the main and the like shall be the
maintenance responsibility of the city. Installation of the service line from
the meter to the customer’s property shall be the responsibility of the
individual customer. All service line materials on the customer’s side of the
meter shall remain property of the customer. Maintenance responsibility for
these materials shall remain with the customer.
         (8)   After completion of the waterline extension, the association
shall dedicate the line to the city. The waterline extension shall become the
property of the city from the date of acceptance, but the association shall be
responsible for maintenance and repair of the extension for a period of one
year from the date of City Council acceptance. Assurance of maintenance shall
be in either of the following forms:
            (a)   A commercial maintenance bond for 100% of the value of the
extension for a period of one year after the date of City Council acceptance of
the waterline extension. The dollar amount of the maintenance bond shall be
approved by the city’s Engineer; or
            (b)   Wording in the association’s agreement with the city holding
the individual members of the association responsible for reimbursing the city
of repairs to the extension during the one-year period. Distribution of the
charges shall be made by dividing the total cost (materials, labor and
equipment) equally among the association members.
   3.   Agreements between customer and city, as part of providing potable
water service to customers outside the city limits of the city. Agreement forms
shall be provided in the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The form of the
agreement shall be approved by the city’s Attorney.
      a.   For Alternate A arrangements, the agreement shall be executed by the
customer and the President of the City Council after approval by the City
Council. The customer’s signature shall be notarized, and the Board President’s
signature shall be attested by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      b.   For Alternate B arrangements, the agreement shall be executed by the
President of the Association and the President of the City Council after
approval by the City Council. The association president’s signature shall be
attested by the association’s secretary, and the City Council President’s
signature shall be attested by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
§§ 16-25 THROUGH 16-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM
§ 16-40 USE OF MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any
connection to the municipal sewer system without first complying with all
applicable provisions of this code of ordinances and all requirements of the
Cache Public Works Authority.
§ 16-41 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   1.   The owners of all houses, buildings or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the
corporate limits of the city and abutting on any street or alley or right-of-
way in which there is located a public sanitary sewer of the city, are hereby
required, at their own expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to have such facilities connected directly with the proper public sewer
within 120 days after the date of official municipal notice to do so; provided
that such public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
   2.   Said notice (above) shall be served by any designated agent of the city
by delivering a true and correct copy to the property owner, or leaving the
same at said person’s usual place of residence with a member of the family over
the age of 15 years, or if such owner cannot be found, by posting a copy of
such notice at the front entrance of the building involved.
   3.   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the terms
of this section after having been notified so to do, as provided herein, shall
be guilty of an offense. In the event of a continuous violation of this section
by any property owner, the city may discontinue the furnishing of water to such
property owner, until such time as a proper sewer connection has been made.
(Ord. 10-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 16-42 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   1.   Except as hereinafter provided in this code of ordinances, it shall be
unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended to be used for the disposal of
sewage, within the corporate limits of the city.
   2.   Where a connection to a public sanitary sewer lines is not required
under the provisions of §16-41, a private septic tank facility for sewage
disposal maybe constructed and maintained, provided it is constructed and
maintained under the rules and regulations of the Local and County Health
Officer, and in compliance with the recommendations and requirements of the
State Department of Health. No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to
any public sewer or natural outlet.
   3.   The owners of private septic tanks shall operate and maintain the same
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city, and no statement
contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the Local, County or State Health Officers.
   4.   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a septic tank, a direct connection shall be made to such public sewer in
compliance with
§ 16-41, and the septic tank shall immediately be abandoned and filled with
suitable material.
§ 16-43 SEWER RATES AND FEES.
   1.   a.   All users of the municipally-owned wastewater treatment system
shall be charged as follows:
         (1)   First   0 to 1,000 gallons, $7.73;
         (2)   Next   1,001 to 5,000 gallons, $0.52;
         (3)   Next   5,001 to 10,000 gallons, $0.77;
         (4)   Next   10,001 to 15,000 gallons, $1.03;
         (5)   Next   15,001 to 20,000 gallons, $1.29;
         (6)   Next   20,001 to 25,000 gallons, $1.55;
         (7)   Next   25,001 to 30,000 gallons, $1.80; and
         (8)   Next   30,001 and above to $2.06.
       b.   In the case of users not on a metered basis, the Utility
Superintendent shall establish an estimate water consumption based on a
comparison of the non-metered user with a metered user of a similar class.
Example: a non-metered family of four will be compared to a typical family of
four with a water meter to establish water consumption.
   2.   Of the sewer connection provided for in subsection 1. above services
more than one dwelling or business establishment, the charge referred to above
shall be for each such dwelling or business establishment located on each
parcel of real property.
   3.   The assessments referred to above shall be billed to each user monthly
and, in the event of the failure of any user to pay said assessment when due,
the city shall have the right to have the Cache Public Works Authority
discontinue furnishing water to said user.
   4.   Sewer connections and tap fees for installation of sewer service from
the main or lateral to the property line shall be as follows:
      a.   Four-inch tap (minimum), $650; and
      b.   Larger than four inches, $700.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 3-21-2011; Ord. 2021-05, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 21-10,
passed 11-8-2021; Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
§§ 16-44 THROUGH 16-59 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE SYSTEM
§ 16-60 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL DECLARED TO BE A MUNICIPAL FUNCTION.
   1.   The collection and disposal of garbage, trash and refuse and other
solid waste is hereby declared to be a municipal function of the city. The use
of the city’s solid waste collection and disposal system is required of all
houses, buildings or property used for human occupancy with the city limits. As
a protection of the public health, the police powers of said city shall be
invoked when necessary for the enforcement of this chapter. In addition the
city may collect and dispose of refuse, as it deems necessary; provided, that
such disposal shall be an approved method of incineration (not open burning) or
by landfill and daily cover.
   2.   Only those persons that are regular customers of the solid waste system
for the city shall utilize the refuse collection services provided. It shall be
unlawful and offense for any person not an authorized customer of the solid
waste to deposit, cause to be deposited or assist in depositing refuse, trash
or solid waste in the containers of an authorized customer for its disposal by
the solid waste system. Any person violating this subsection 2. shall be
subject to the maximum fine that may be imposed by the city.
   3.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, except under
contract as hereinafter provided for, to remove or cause to be removed any
solid waste materials from any garbage can or receptacle used for the deposit
of same, or to transport or haul, carry or otherwise move over any of the
streets, alleys or other public ways any solid waste material.
§ 16-61 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article and it is hereby declared to be the policy
of the city, pursuant to the authority of the State Solid Waste Management Act
(27A O.S. §§ 2-10-101 et seq. inclusive and as amended), to regulate the
collection and disposal of solid wastes in a manner that will protect the
public health and welfare, prevent air and water pollution, prevent the spread
of disease and the creation of nuisances, conserve the natural resources, and
enhance and preserve the beauty and quality of the community’s environment.
§ 16-62 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REFUSE. Tree trimmings, junked building and roofing materials, manufacturing
waste, rocks, dirt and other waste material not defined as SOLID WASTE or
TRASH.
   SOLID WASTE. Includes all putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or
semi-solid form, including, but not limited to, garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes
or incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes, solid or semi-solid commercial and industrial wastes and
hazardous wastes (including explosives, pathological wastes, chemical wastes,
herbicide and pesticide wastes).
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The entire process of storage, collection,
transportation, processing and burying solid wastes at or in a site approved by
the State Department of Health.
   TRASH. Paper, rags, containers or paper, tin cans, yard and house sweepings
and all other household waste, but not tree trimmings, building and
manufacturing waste, sewage and rocks, raw dirt, rainwater and other liquid
refuse properly disposable through the sanitary sewers of the city.
§ 16-63 ACCUMULATION A NUISANCE; CONTAINERS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any lot or piece of
ground to allow solid waste to accumulate thereon, so as to cause an offensive
odor to be emitted therefrom or to become injurious or dangerous to the health
of the neighborhood or any inhabitant thereof. Any such condition is hereby
declared a violation of this article and punishable as such, and in addition is
declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as such.
   2.   Any person constructing any structure within the city shall, prior to
construction on any premises, furnish and place on said premises a container of
suitable size and design (35 gallon maximum) to contain all solid waste which
might, by the winds or elements, be distributed and blown from the premises;
said container shall be used by the person concerned at all times to keep the
premises from becoming unsightly with solid waste, and shall always be kept
covered.
   3.   Any person who fails to keep the premises on which any structure is
being built or installed free from solid waste and who allows said waste to
blow or be carried from the premises to adjoining or other property or into the
streets, shall be deemed guilty of causing a nuisance, and shall be subject to
the penalties in this code of ordinances prescribed therefor.
§ 16-64 BURNING OF SOLID WASTE.
   1.   It shall be an offense for any person to start or maintain any fire or
cause any fire to be started or maintained for the purpose of unlawfully
burning or incinerating any solid waste.
   2.   It shall be an offense to construct or install, within any building in
the city an unlawful incinerator designed to burn solid wastes.
§ 16-65 CHARGES FOR SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION.
   For the purpose of supporting the operation of the municipal solid waste
system, pursuant to the authority of the State Solid Waste Management Act of
1970, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., there is hereby levied and assessed the
following rates and charges against every owner, occupant or person in charge
of any of the following user units within or without the city limits as they
currently exist, or as they might from time to time be changed according to
law.
   1.   Residential collection, $20.92. Bulk trash fee included in monthly
services, $1. Single-family units and duplexes with separate refuse
receptacles, the monthly rate is for once a week collection of one 95-gallon
roll out (poly cart) container. Any trash, refuse or discarded items placed
outside the 95-gallon poly cart(s) will not be picked up.
   2.   a.   Additional 95-gallon residential poly cart container, $9.51.
Additional containers must be requested by the residence and is in addition to
the residential collection rate and is applicable per residence, per container.
      b.   Additional containers must be requested by the resident and will be
in addition to the residential collection rate and will be applicable per
residence, per container.
      b.   Additional containers must be requested by the resident and will be
in addition to the residential collection rate and will be applicable per
residence, per container.
   3.   Commercial, industrial and multi-family collection monthly rates are as
follows:
a. 95-gallon roll-out (poly cart) container                          $27.89
b. Additional 95-gallon commercial poly cart container, per request, $15.84
   per container, per month
c. 2 cubic yard container
      Once a week collection                                      $57.04
      Twice per week collection                                   $107.72
d. 4 cubic yard container
      Once a week collection                                      $107.72
      Twice per week collection                                   $215.45
e. 6 cubic yard container
      Once a week collection                                      $164.12
      Twice per week collection                                   $325.70
f. 8 cubic yard container
   Once a week collection                                            $216.72
   Twice per week collection                                         $430.48
 
   4.   Bulky items and other waste material considered non-household trash
shall be a separate charge. Household items in excess of 95-gallon container(s)
shall be considered bulky items. The rate change for disposal of bulky items
and other non-household trash, such as furniture, mattresses, water heaters,
appliances and other similar waste, will be assessed per cubic yard.
      a.   Collection for bulk items will be on the last Tuesday of each month.
Residents must contact the city's solid waste service provider for pick up.
      b.   Bulk items shall not be placed curbside until the weekend prior to
the last Tuesday of each month and no later than 7:00 a.m. on the day of
collection. If the bulk items brought to the curbside are not collected by bulk
trash pickup the items must be removed by the owner or person of the same back
off the curbside until the next pickup date.
      c.   Bulk trash left on the curbside on days other than the forementioned
days will be removed and a fee of $30 will be added to resident’s water bill.
   5.   The removal and disposal of refrigerators, construction material,
demolition waste, salvaged automobiles, motorized vehicles, auto parts, used
tires, hazardous waste, rock, concrete, sand, gravel, dirt, and large dead
animals is the absolute responsibility and expense of the owner or person
having the same, in charge of the disposal.
   6.   Limbs and/or tree trimmings, hereinafter called brushwood, yard
clippings and dead leaves will be collected by the city, upon request, provided
that;
      a.   Brushwood shall be securely tied in bundles not over four feet in
length and stacked at the curb.
      b.   Bundles shall not exceed two feet, 48 inches in height and length
nor 50 pounds in weight.
      c.   Yard clippings and dead leaves shall be placed at the curb in
suitable disposal bags and shall not exceed 50 pounds in weight.
      d.   Brushwood which are not bundled or exceeds the weight or length
limit shall be considered bulky items. The removal of such is the
responsibility and at the expense of the owner of person in charge of the
disposal.
   7.   Solid waste containers, both the 95-gallon poly cart and the front load
type dumpsters, shall be furnished to the customer. The container(s) must be
maintained/kept in a satisfactory condition, recurrence of damages, destruction
or theft, will require a deposit from the customer, equal to the replacement
cost of the container. The use of any container, at a single-family dwelling,
other than the 95-gallon poly cart furnished by the city or its designate, is
prohibited. Refuse placed in containers, other than provided, will not be
collected.
   8.   Trash and/or bulky items not placed inside the proper containers, will
not be collected. Such trash remaining at the street for 24 hours after the
scheduled pickup shall be a violation of this section. The use of container(s)
not allocated to the premises shall be a violation of this section.
   9.   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be guilty of
an offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 11, Article 3, §
11-50 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 2-11-2013; Ord. 16-3, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 17-03, passed
11-13-2017; Ord. 17-4, passed 11-13-2017; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-8-2021; Ord.
2022-04, passed 5-9-2022; Ord. 2022-05, passed 5-9-2022; Ord. 2023-03, passed
6-12-2023; Ord. 2023-14, passed 12-11-2023; Ord. 2024-19, passed 11-12-2024;
Ord. 2025-3, passed 3-11-2025)
§§ 16-66 THROUGH 16-79 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: MUNICIPAL PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 16-80 CACHE CITY PARKS RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   1.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be permitted on or consumed at any city
park.
   2.   No motorized vehicle of any type, gas or electric, shall be operated at
a speed in excess of five mph on a city park.
   3.   Quiet hours shall be between 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following
day.
   4.   All pets must be kept on a leash at all times.
   5.   There shall be no loud, offensive or profane music played at any city
park. LOUD MUSIC shall mean any music that can be heard by a bystander more
than 50 feet from the source of the music. OFFENSIVE MUSIC is any music that
defames and/or employs negative racial and/or gender oriented language.
   6.   Music incorporating profanity into its lyrics shall not be played at
any city park.
   7.   No littering shall be allowed at any city park.
   8.   No dumping or sewage or any other type of waste shall be allowed at any
city park except in areas authorized and marked for that purpose.
   9.   Only RV camping shall be allowed at city parks, and camping permits
must first be obtained at City Hall.
§ 16-81 PENALTY.
   Any person or other legal entity who violates any provision of this chapter,
performs any unlawful act as defined in this chapter or fails to perform any
act required in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any amount not to exceed the limits
established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day during which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
ARTICLE 6: MUNICIPAL CEMETERY
§§ 16-100 THROUGH 16-119 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 7: MUNICIPAL LIBRARY SYSTEM
§§ 16-120 THROUGH 16-139 RESERVED FOR FIXTURE USE.
ARTICLE 8: FIRE DEPARTMENT PUMPER FEE
§ 16-140 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DEPARTMENT PUMPER FEE.
   A Fire Department pumper fee of $2 is hereby established and shall be added
to the utility bill for each connection of all utility customers of the city.
ARTICLE 9: INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 16-141 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   1.   No person may discharge to a public sewer any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      a.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      b.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      c.   Create a hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   2.   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer shall be prohibited. All discharges shall be prohibited
except those that meet the criteria for domestic wastewater. BOD concentration
shall not exceed 250 mg/l SS shall not exceed 250 mg/l.
   3.   It is the intention of the city to regulate present and future
industrial wastewater which might be discharged by a user of the facilities.
Wastewater introduced into the facilities shall contain no toxins or other
pollutants in amounts or concentrations that endanger public safety or the
physical integrity of the treatment works, or cause violation of effluent or
water quality limitations, or preclude the use of the most cost effective
wastewater treatment and sludge disposal system.
§ 16-142 NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   1.   The connection of all building sewers into the public sewer lines shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes adopted by, and
the other applicable rules and regulations of, the city.
   2.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements and regulations of the State Department of
Health.
§ 16-143 USER CHARGE SCHEDULE.
   1.   As the BOD, suspended solids and other pollutant concentrations
discharged shall be approximately equal for all domestic users, users shall be
charged on a volume basis in accordance with the following formula:
         CU = Cb + Ct/Vt (Vu)
   2.   Symbols and definitions shall be as follows:
      CU = A user’s charge per unit of time;
      Cb = A user’s base minimum charge (for debt retirement, billing,
administration and the like) per unit of time;
      Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time;
      Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time (may
include extraneous flows); and
      Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
§ 16-144 EXCESSIVE STRENGTH CHARGES.
   1.   For any user, when the BOD exceeds *250 mg/1, the suspended solids
exceeds *250 mg/1, or when other pollutant concentrations exceed the range of
concentrations of these pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge shall
be added to the basic charge. This surcharge shall be calculated by the
following formula. (*Maximum limit for average domestic waste.)
         Cs = (Bc (B) + Sc (S) + Pc (P)VU
   2.   Symbols and definitions shall be as follows:
      Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength;
      Bc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD);
      B = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level;
      Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS);
      S = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level;
      Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant;
      P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level; and
      Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
§ 16-145 REVIEW AND REVISION.
   The user charge article shall be reviewed not less than every two years
regarding the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the total
costs of the operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and its approved
user charge system. The charges for users or user classes shall be revised to
accomplish the following:
   1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes;
   2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary to the proper operation (including replacement) of the
treatment works; and
   3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and the
rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
§ 16-146 TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGES.
   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the treatment works shall
pay for such increased costs.
§ 16-147 NOTIFICATION.
   Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with the
regular bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of the user charges which
are attributable to wastewater treatment services. Costs shall be broken down
to show the operation and maintenance costs attributable to that user.
§ 16-148 CHARGES FOR EXTRANEOUS FLOWS.
   The costs of operation and maintenance for all flows not directly
attributable to users (such as infiltration/flow) shall be distributed among
users on the same basis as operation and maintenance charges.
§ 16-149 RECORDS.
   A record-keeping system shall be established and maintained by the City
Clerk-Treasurer of the city to document compliance with Federal Regulations
pertaining to the user charge article.
§ 16-150 BILLING.
   Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due 16 days after the
date of billing. Users on metered water services will be billed on the same
notice as water charges and will be designated as a separate entry. Users of
the wastewater system not on metered water service will be billed monthly on an
individual notice for wastewater service at the rate established by the Utility
Superintendent. Users with delinquent accounts will be notified in writing that
water and/or wastewater services will be terminated unless the account is paid
in full. The Utility Superintendent will utilize the law enforcement agency to
assist as required in the control and management of the municipal system.
§§ 16-151 THROUGH 16-169 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 10: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 16-170 TURNING ON UTILITIES.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn a utility on to any
premises from any municipal utility system, without written permission of the
City Clerk-Treasurer. Utilities shall not be turned on until any and all
deposits and charges have been paid. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall see that
the utility is turned on when all requirements for service have been complied
with.
   2.   When a utility has been turned off by municipal personnel, it shall not
be turned on again without written permission of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 16-171 NO SERVICE CONNECTION UNTIL BILLS HAVE BEEN PAID; CUT-OFFS.
   1.   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      a.   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill.
      b.   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment.
      c.   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   2.   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   3.   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 16-172 CUSTOMERS TO KEEP SERVICE PIPES IN GOOD REPAIR.
   All customers using any municipal utilities systems shall keep their service
pipes and other apparatus in good repair and in proper operation, and shall not
unnecessarily waste water nor contribute to unsanitary conditions.
§ 16-173 CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR UTILITY INTERRUPTION.
   The city shall not be responsible for any damages due to stoppage or
interruption of any utility or service.
§ 16-174 MUNICIPAL PERSONNEL MAY INSPECT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Upon a showing that there is a reasonable basis to believe that the premises
may not be in conformity with city health, fire or safety ordinances, personnel
in the service of the city may enter any private premises served by municipal
utilities at any reasonable time, and inspect the pipes, fixtures and/or wiring
for violation of health, fire or safety ordinances.
§ 16-175 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS; DAMAGE OF UTILITY SYSTEM.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized, to open,
turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything
with, any fire hydrant belonging to the city.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct access
to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other
thing.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy or tamper with
any pipes, lines, meters or other equipment or property which is a part of any
municipal utility system.
§§ 16-176 THROUGH 16-199 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 10: PENALTY
§ 16-200 PENALTY.
   Every person who violates any provision of this chapter, or of any
ordinance, code or standard adopted by this chapter, or maintains or permits to
continue any situation defined by this Chapter as unlawful, shall be guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any amount not to
exceed the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Every day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 17: STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS
Section
Article 1: Use and Obstruction
   
17-1   Trees and shrubbery
   
17-2   Rights-of-way and easements
   
17-2-1   Easements
   
17-3   Obstructions
   
17-4   Drainage of polluting substance
   
17-5 through 17-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
17-20   Notice of closing of public way or easement
   
17-21   Right of city to re-open public way or easement
   
17-22   Crosswalks located at Cache High School
   
17-20 through 17-49 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Penalty
   
17-50   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: USE AND OBSTRUCTION
§ 17-1 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   1.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all trees
and shrubbery growing in the public right-of-way and on any part of the
premises adjacent to any street or alley, in such a manner that the boughs or
limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along
any streets, sidewalks or alleys. When such premises are occupied by some
person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery
in the same manner as herein required of the owner.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery
within any public right-of-way; provided, that, this shall not prohibit the
lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
   3.   Any owner, lessee or occupant of any property abutting on any street
shall not allow any human-made or natural view obstruction at any corner
intersection, particularly within the “sight triangle” created by definition in
the city’s adopted zoning ordinance.
§ 17-2 RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct or
otherwise prevent access to any publicly-used street, alley, easement or other
municipally-owned property, whether platted or unplatted; provided, that, the
city may prevent or provide access to such streets, alleys, easements and
municipally-owned properties from time to time, in the public interest.
   2.   The City Council may permit certain streets, alleys, easements and
municipal properties which are dedicated, but not required for traffic or other
public access or use, to be fenced or otherwise made inaccessible to the public
(as in the case of land being farmed or grazed as a part of a larger field of
pasture); provided, that, said City Council or any of its officers or employees
shall have the right or ingress, egress and easement for the purpose of
installing or maintaining utilities, cleaning, grading, mowing or any other
activity which is in the public interest.
   3.   Persons, companies, corporations or individuals who have fenced in, or
are farming or grazing dedicated, but unopened, streets, alleys, easements or
municipally-owned properties, as permitted above, shall:
      a.   Not construct any building, structure, earthworks or ponds, nor in
any other way disturb the general grade and slope of the land;
      b.   Maintain the property so that no nuisance is created;
      c.   Immediately relinquish any rights presumed to be held concerning the
property, upon notice by the city; and
      d.   Permit access to the property at any time when requested to do so by
a municipal officer or employee.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
erect, build, or cause to be constructed, erected or built, any fence, of
whatever height or material, within any dedicated road right-of-way in the
city.
§ 17-2-1 EASEMENTS.
   1.   Easements shall be mowed by the adjoining property owners to the center
of the easement. In the event that the easement is located on a single
property, then that property owner shall mow the entire easement.
   2.   If easements are not maintained and are declared a nuisance, the city
may have the easement cleaned and mowed with a fee of $75 per hour (one hour
minimum).
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 7-8-2025)
§ 17-3 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, easements or public rights-of-way of the city in any manner so
as to interfere unduly with pedestrian or other lawful traffic and parking
thereon, or to interfere unduly with the purpose(s) of said easement or right-
of-way.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit,
throw or sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parking areas or sidewalks any
paper, rubbisn, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting
upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area
adjacent to the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk.
   4.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit to be open
or leave open any cellar door, manhole or grating of any kind in or upon any
street, sidewalk or alley of the city.
   5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or cutting
in any street, sidewalk, alley or public grounds, or to remove any earth or
construction material therefrom, except where authorized to do so by the City
Council; excavations so authorized shall be properly guarded and protected to
prevent said excavations from being or becoming dangerous to life or limb.
   6.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct
any street, sidewalk, alley or drainage easement by placing any approach,
driveway or other obstruction or substance whatever, that will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water through the easement or into the storm sewers
or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or gutters.
§ 17-4 DRAINAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any residence, business or industry to allow
drainage of a polluting substance or pollution (as defined by 82 O.S. § 1084.2,
as amended) into any street, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way of the
city.
§§ 17-5 THROUGH 17-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 17-20 NOTICE OF CLOSING OF PUBLIC WAY OR EASEMENT.
   1.   In the event the City Council deems it necessary or expedient to close
any public way or easement, the city must give written notice of any proposed
closing of the public way or easement to any holder of a franchise or others
determined by the governing body to have a special right or privilege granted
by ordinance or legislative enactment to use the public way or easement at
least 30 days prior to the passage of any ordinance providing for the closing
of the public way easement.
   2.   After the giving of notice as set forth in subsection 1. above, the
City Council may, by majority vote, close the public way or easement.
   3.   Closing of the public way or easement shall not affect the right of the
city to maintain, repair, reconstruct, operate or remove utility, public
service corporation or transmission company facilities or services therein, nor
shall a closing affect private ways existing by operation of law unless
released in writing executed by the owners thereof.
§ 17-21 RIGHT OF CITY TO RE-OPEN PUBLIC WAY OR EASEMENT.
   1.   The city retains the absolute right to re-open any public way or
easement without expense to the city.
   2.   The public way or easement may re-opened by ordinance whenever:
      a.   The City Council deems it necessary; or
      b.   An application of the property owners abutting more than one-half in
area of the property abutting on the public way or easement previously closed
is filed with governing body.
§ 17-22 CROSSWALKS LOCATED AT CACHE HIGH SCHOOL.
   It is necessary for the public health and safety that the following three
crosswalks be established across Highway 62 in the vicinity of Cache High
School:
   1.   Crosswalk No. 1 is to be located approximately 35 feet east of
intermediate school driveway and extend north across Highway 62, said crosswalk
being no less than 15 feet in length;
   2.   Crosswalk No. 2 is to be located on the east end of the west drive
coming from Cache High School and will extend north across Highway 62, being no
less than 15 feet in width; and
   3.   Crosswalk No. 3 is to be located on the east end of the east driveway
entering Cache High School and extend north across Highway 62, being no less
than 15 feet width.
§§ 17-20 THROUGH 17-49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: PENALTY
§ 17-50 PENALTY.
   1.   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim trees and
shrubbery as provided in
§ 17-1, after receiving ten days’ notice from the Chief of Police to do so,
shall be guilty of an offense.
   2.   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the limits
established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Every day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 18: TRAFFIC
Section
Article 1: State Highway Traffic Safety Code Adopted
   
18-1   State Highway Traffic Safety Code adopted
   
18-2 through 18-9 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Traffic Regulations
   
18-10   City Council may adopt and enforce regulations
   
18-11   Speed regulations
   
18-12   Citation tags; failure to comply
   
18-13   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
18-14   Duties of police officers and firefighters
   
18-15   Stopped school bus
   
18-16   Accident reports; leaving an accident scene
   
18-17   Driving by unauthorized persons
   
18-18   Reckless driving
   
18-19   Driving under the influence
   
18-20   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalk
   
18-21   Following too closely
   
18-22   Backing
   
18-23 through 18-39 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Impoundment of Vehicles
   
18-40   Purpose and effect of impoundment
   
18-41   Place of impoundment
   
18-42   Duration of impoundment
   
18-43   Redemption and release of vehicle
   
18-44   Authority to impound vehicles
   
18-45   Causes of impoundment
   
18-46   Abandoned, wrecked or non-operating vehicles
   
18-47 through 18-59 Reserved for future use
Article 4: Vehicle and Equipment Prohibitions
   
18-60   Injurious or obstructive vehicles; oversized vehicle permits
   
18-61   Size and weight of vehicles; truck routes
   
18-62 through 18-79 Reserved for future use
Article 5: Traffic-Control Devices
   
18-80   Installation of traffic-control devices
   
18-81   Specifications for traffic-control devices
   
18-82   Turn signs and indicators
   
18-83   Designation and marking of one-way streets
   
18-84   Marking of traffic lanes
   
18-85   Designation and marking of crosswalks
   
18-86   Unauthorized signs or devices
   
18-87   Classification of streets
   
18-88 through 18-99 Reserved for future use
Article 6: Parking, Stopping and Loading
   
18-100   Stopping or parking prohibited in specified places
   
18-101   Angle parking
   
18-102   Standing or parking close to curb; brakes
   
18-103   Parking on private property; truck parking
   
18-104   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
18-105   Loading zones
   
18-106 through 18-119 Reserved for future use
Article 7: Bicycles
   
18-120   Traffic laws applicable to persons riding bicycles
   
18-121   Bicycle equipment
   
18-122   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
18-123   Riding on bicycles
   
18-124 through 18-139 Reserved for future use
Article 8: Pedestrians
   
18-140   Application of article
   
18-141   Pedestrians
   
18-142   Drivers to exercise due care
   
18-143 through 18-149 Reserved for future use
Article 9: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
18-150   Obedience to chapter
   
18-151   Public officials and employees
   
18-152   Necessity of signs
   
18-153   Vehicles: equipment; licensing; inspection; security form
   
18-154   Inspection of vehicles
   
18-155   Motorcycles
   
18-156   Construction zones
   
18-157   Persons working on streets
   
18-158   Riding or clinging to vehicles
   
18-159   Dangerous objects in streets
   
18-160   Funerals
   
18-161   Eluding a police officer
   
18-162   Following fire apparatus
   
18-163   Crossing fire hose
   
18-164   Obstruction of driver’s view
   
18-165   Seat belt usage; child passenger restraint system
   
18-166 through 18-199 Reserved for future use
Article 10: Penalty
   
18-200   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY CODE ADOPTED
§ 18-1 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   1.   The State Highway Traffic Safety Code (O.S. Title 47, as amended, and
every ten years’ recodification thereof) is hereby adopted and incorporated in
the code of ordinances of the city, as if set out at length herein, for the
purposes of establishing locally appropriate rules and regulations for the
control of traffic within said municipality.
   2.   The definitions of words used in this chapter shall be the same as
those definitions in 47 O.S. §§ 1-100 through 1-186.
   3.   The office of the City Clerk shall maintain at least three copies of
the current State Highway Traffic Safety Code adopted by this code of
ordinances, on file in the office of said City Clerk.
§§ 18-2 THROUGH 18-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 18-10 CITY COUNCIL MAY ADOPT AND ENFORCE REGULATIONS.
   1.   The City Council is hereby empowered to adopt and provide for the
enforcement of regulations necessary to make the provisions of this chapter and
any other traffic or related ordinances of the city, effective, and to adopt
and provide for the enforcement of temporary regulations to cover emergencies
or special conditions.
   2.   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of the Chief of Police, any police officer, firefighter or
any other authorized municipal employee.
§ 18-11 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   1.   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street within the corporate
limits of the city at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or prudent
under the conditions then existing (including, among other things, the
condition of the vehicle, roadway, weather, visibility, amount of traffic,
presence of pedestrians and any obstruction of view).
   2.   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a speed greater than
will permit a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   3.   No person shall drive any vehicle, except an authorized emergency
vehicle (as provided in this chapter), at a speed greater than:
      a.   Twenty mph on any street adjacent to any school, or in any school
zone, between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on days when school is in session, unless
otherwise posted; and
      b.   Twenty-five mph on other streets and on streets adjacent to schools
at other times than that specified immediately above, unless otherwise posted.
§ 18-12 CITATION TAGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   1.   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this chapter, by delivering citation tags to violators
or, in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation
of this chapter, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citation tags shall indicate briefly the charge, shall
bear the registration number of the vehicle and shall direct the violator to
present the tag at the police station or other designated place with ten days,
or such other reasonable time as may be specified thereon. Nothing in this
section shall abridge the power to arrest any violator, to take said person
into custody or to file a complaint against any violator at any time.
   2.   The City Council may require that police officers use serially-numbered
citation tags furnished by the City Clerk, and said City Council may also
regulate the use and handling of citation tags.
   3.   If a violator of any provision of this chapter who has been given a
citation tag as provided above, fails to appear in accordance with the
instructions of such tag, the Chief of Police or an authorized agent shall send
a letter or other written notice to the owner of the vehicle involved,
informing said person of the violation, warning said person to appear and
directing that, in the event such letter or notice is disregarded for a period
of five days, a complaint will be filed and a warrant of arrest issued;
provided, that, nothing in this section shall abridge the power to file a
complaint prior to the expiration of such time.
   4.   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to
such person, or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a
complaint entered against such person before the Municipal Judge, and said
Judge shall issue a warrant for said person’s arrest.
§ 18-13 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of a law
or ordinance, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm,
may exercise the following privileges:
      a.   Park or stand (irrespective of the provisions of this chapter);
      b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or sign (slowing down as may be
necessary for safe operation);
      c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits, so long as this action does not
endanger life or property; or
      d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   2.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible and/or
visual signals, except that an authorized emergency vehicle, operated as a
police vehicle, need not be equipped with, or display, a red light visible from
the front of the vehicle.
   3.   Upon the immediate approach of any authorized emergency vehicle making
required use of audible and/or visual signals, or of a police vehicle properly
and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection, or shall clear the roadway in the safest possible
manner, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   4.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from
the consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
§ 18-14 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and any police officers to
enforce the traffic regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to traffic in said municipality, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents, to cooperate with other municipal
officials in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specifically imposed
upon said police officers by this chapter and any other traffic or related
ordinances of said municipality.
   2.   The Chief of Police and all assistants are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic by voice, hand or signal, in conformance with traffic laws and
ordinances. In the event of a fire, other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, such officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   3.   Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist police
officers in directing traffic.
§ 18-15 STOPPED SCHOOL BUS.
   1.   No person shall pass any school bus (as defined by state law) when such
bus is stopped for the purpose of discharging or taking on passengers, and is
displaying flashing red lights, as required by state law.
   2.   All persons shall stop upon approaching a stopped school bus (as
described in subsection 1. above), regardless of the direction of said
approach.
§ 18-16 ACCIDENT REPORTS; LEAVING AN ACCIDENT SCENE.
   1.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to, or death of, any person, or damage to any
vehicle or other property to an apparent extent of more than $300, shall, as
soon as practicable, report such accident to the Chief of Police or to the
Police Department. Making out a written report of the accident in the Police
Department, as soon as practicable after the accident (to be forwarded to the
State Department of Public Safety in accordance with state law), shall be
deemed compliance with this section.
   2.   Leaving the scene of an accident, as defined by current state law,
shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the city.
§ 18-17 DRIVING BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not have a valid driver’s
license, as required by state law, to operate a motor vehicle within the
corporate limits of the city.
   2.   It shall also be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit an
unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the
city.
   3.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to authorize, or
knowingly permit, any vehicle owned by, or under, said person’s control, to be
driven upon any of the streets or highways of the city by any person who is not
authorized, under the laws of the state to operate such vehicle.
§ 18-18 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle within the
corporate limits of the city in a careless, negligent or reckless manner,
without regard for the safety of persons, property or the lawful use of the
streets; such person shall be guilty of reckless driving.
§ 18-19 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotic drugs or other controlled, dangerous substances, to drive,
or be in actual physical control of, any vehicle within the corporate limits of
the city.
§ 18-20 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive upon any sidewalk or sidewalk
area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
§ 18-21 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both vehicles and
the traffic upon, and the condition of, the roadway.
§ 18-22 BACKING.
   1.   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   2.   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same a greater distance
than is necessary to permit it to enter the immediately available proper
driving lane; no extended backing shall be permitted.
§§ 18-23 THROUGH 18-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 18-40 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Impoundment of vehicles under the authority of the provisions of this
article shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety, welfare and safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares in the city, from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
§ 18-41 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this article shall
be removed to the nearest garage, or other place of safekeeping designated by
the City Council, and shall not be removed to any other place.
§ 18-42 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   1.   Unless otherwise provided hereinafter, any vehicle impounded under the
provisions of this code of ordinances shall be stored and held safely until a
written order for its release, signed by the Chief of Police (or a designated
representative), has been issued.
   2.   The written order for release shall be conditioned upon:
      a.   Payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle, by the person to whom the release is issued; and
      b.   Payment of all fines and costs due the city because of traffic law
or other law violations involving the vehicle, or proper security posted for
said fine or law violation.
§ 18-43 REDEMPTION AND RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   1.   The person holding the written order for release shall be entitled to
obtain possession of the vehicle upon presentation of the order for release at
the place of impoundment, together with payment (or tender of payment) of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges due.
   2.   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to release vehicles which have been
impounded (and accept agreements and bonds to save the city, harmless by such
releases) to persons other than the registered owner of the vehicle.
   3.   Any party claiming an interest in an impounded vehicle shall submit (by
written instruments or other documents), to the City Clerk and the Chief of
Police, proof of compliance with the following requirements:
      a.   Proof of interest; and
      b.   Agreement to save and hold harmless the city and all of its
employees.
§ 18-44 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   1.   The Chief of Police of the city and members of the Municipal Police
Department are hereby authorized, within the limits set forth in this chapter,
to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated.
   2.   No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized
police officer, and in strict adherence to the procedures established in this
article and other policies of the city.
§ 18-45 CAUSES OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   1.   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded, under the
following circumstances:
      a.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      b.   If left unattended longer than 72 hours on the shoulder of any
highway; or
      c.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   2.   Any unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, causeway or
within the structure of a grade separation maybe impounded.
   3.   Whenever the driver, or person in charge, of any vehicle is placed
under arrest, taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances
which leave, or will leave, a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the
vehicle may be impounded.
   4.   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare, and
so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
   5.   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any street in the city for a period of 72 hours, or more,
the Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle, and if the owner of
the vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the owner shall be
notified of the action by the Police Department.
   6.   A trespassing, unattended vehicle may be impounded when the required
complaint has been properly made and filed. The owner or legal occupant who
complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the
owner’s (or legal occupant’s) property; if the identity of the person parking
the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered
owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the
complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the
vehicle is parked or standing. Upon filing of the complaint by the property
owner or legal occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe a
violation has occurred, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded and placed in storage.
   7.   Any unattended vehicle parked at the street curbing of any zone where
parking is prohibited, and where official signs are in place giving notice
thereof in violation of the prohibition, may be impounded.
   8.   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire
escape, ladder or exit, or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant, shall be
impounded.
   9.   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection,
shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in
charge of the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and
to the nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
   10.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding eight hours, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identification in
the vehicle (or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars), the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment and the registered owner of the vehicle notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department. If the
registered owner is identified, located and notified of the recovery of the
stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make arrangements for the
removal of the vehicle within a period of 24 hours from the time he or she is
actually notified of its recovery; if the owner is unable or unwilling to
effect the removal within the time specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
§ 18-46 ABANDONED, WRECKED OR NON-OPERATING VEHICLES.
   1.   Except as otherwise provided, no person shall store, keep or park any
partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any part of
their property that is visible from a public right-of-way, nor shall any person
leave such a vehicle for such time, and under such conditions, as to cause it
to reasonably appear to be stored, kept or parked upon any private property,
dedicated street right-of-way or public easement, nor shall any person
dismantle or assemble, in whole or in part, motor vehicles, boats, trailers,
recreational vehicles or other machinery or equipment on their private property
or a public right-of-way if such operation is visible from a public right-of-
way. Vehicles, boats, trailers, recreational vehicles or other machinery or
equipment so kept and/or dismantled in whole or in part shall constitute a
public nuisance.
   2.   Persons excepted from subsection 1. above are those who maintain such
vehicles:
      a.   In enclosed buildings or not visible from a public right-of-way;
      b.   On the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place
and manner, when such vehicles are necessary to the operation of said business;
or
      c.   In an appropriate storage facility or depository which is maintained
by or for the city.
   3.   A rebuttable presumption exists that vehicles are being stored, kept or
parked in violation of this section, when any one of the following conditions
exists:
      a.   Weeds and/or grass undergrowth indicates to a reasonable person that
the vehicle has not been moved, thereby permitting such growth to occur;
      b.   One or more wheels are flat or missing;
      c.   Portions of the vehicle which are needed for its operation or
control are missing;
      d.   Neighboring residents provide written statements as to the length of
time such vehicle has been standing in one place without removal, or statements
that parts are taken from, or added to, such vehicle, which would indicate a
salvage, garage or used parts operation;
      e.   Evidence exists that provisions of the code of ordinances pertaining
to zoning or to junk or salvage yards, are being violated; or
      f.   No current license tag is present or visible on the vehicle.
   4.   Appropriate municipal officials (including, but not limited to, the
Mayor, the Chief of Police, the Municipal Building Inspector, the Fire Chief
and the City Clerk) may remove and impound, or cause to be removed and
impounded, those vehicles which appear to be in violation of this section.
   5.   Prior to the removal and impoundment of any vehicle, stored, kept or
parked on private property, under the provisions of this article, or any of the
appropriate methods of nuisance abatement (see
Chapter 12 of this code of ordinances), the appropriate municipal officials
shall attempt to notify, by certified mail, the registered owner of such
vehicle, stating that the vehicle appears to be in violation of this article,
and that the owner of a vehicle stored, kept or parked on private property, has
48 hours prior to removal and impoundment of such vehicle. Should a member of
the Police Department have reasonable cause to believe that a vehicle is being
stored kept, parked or appears to be non-operative or has been left unattended,
upon any portion of public roadway, shoulder or right-of-way, for a period of
72 hours, shall have the authority to remove and impound such vehicle.
   6.   After a police officer has removed a vehicle from a public roadway,
shoulder or right-of-way, the Police Department shall within 72 hours of such
removal notify the Department of Public Safety of such removal. The notice of
removal shall contain the name and address of the owner, if known, the make,
model, vehicle identification number, registration number, date stored, place
stored and the police officer’s estimated value of the vehicle.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 4-14-2014)
§§ 18-47 THROUGH 18-59 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 4: VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT PROHIBITIONS
§ 18-60 INJURIOUS OR OBSTRUCTIVE VEHICLES; OVERSIZED VEHICLE PERMITS.
   1.   No vehicle or object which injures, or is likely to injure, any street
within the city shall be driven or moved on any street within said
municipality.
   2.   No person shall drive any vehicle which is in such condition, so
constructed or so loaded as to cause, or be likely to cause, a delay in traffic
or constitute a hazard to persons or property, without having obtained an
oversized vehicle permit from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 18-61 SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; TRUCK ROUTES.
   1.   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle, the
width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state
laws, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority.
   2.   The City Council may prescribe routes through the municipality for the
use of trucks and/or other vehicles, which are not ordinary private passenger
vehicles, passing through the city. When it is necessary for vehicles of the
class hereinabove described to travel to and from a location on any of the
city’s public streets, alleys or places for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise, or the provision of necessary services at such location, the route
traveled shall be as short and direct as possible from and to the most
available, legally-designated truck route or state or federal highway.
   3.   The City Council shall see that appropriate and adequate signs are
placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the
routes. When such signs are erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been so prescribed, while passing through
the city shall keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom, except in
case of emergency.
§§ 18-62 THROUGH 18-79 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 5: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 18-80 INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall have traffic-control signs, signals and devices
placed and maintained, as required under the ordinances of the city to make the
provisions of such ordinances effective.
§ 18-81 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Highway Department. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the municipality.
All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions
of state law or this chapter, shall be official traffic-control devices.
§ 18-82 TURN SIGNS AND INDICATORS.
   1.   The City Council is hereby authorized to determine those intersections
at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall
have placed proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event, the same shall be plainly indicated on said signs.
   2.   Whenever authorized signs are erected, indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
   3.   Unless otherwise indicated by such signs, a right turn on red or stop
shall be permitted after the vehicle has come to a complete stop.
§ 18-83 DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Whenever the City Council designates any street, alley or part thereof as a
one-way street or alley, said City Council shall have signs placed, giving
notice thereof. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall
be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
§ 18-84 MARKING OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   1.   The City Council is hereby authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon
the roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   2.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lanes, except when lawfully passing another vehicle,
preparing to make a lawful turning movement or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
§ 18-85 DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council shall have the authority to designate, by appropriate
devices or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections
or other places where, in its opinion, there is particular danger to
pedestrians crossing the roadway.
§ 18-86 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS OR DEVICES.
   1.   No person shall place, maintain or display, upon or in view of any
highway, an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, which project
any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   2.   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
   3.   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the placement, upon
private property, of signs giving useful directional information and of a type
that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   4.   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the City Council is hereby empowered to
remove the same, or cause it to be removed.
§ 18-87 CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS.
   1.   The City Council may adopt, by resolution, a street classification
system for the city. Whenever such a system is adopted, it shall be the duty of
said City Council to have stop signs placed and maintained, or if deemed more
appropriate at any intersection, yield signs, on each and every street involved
in the implementation of the classification system (unless traffic at any
intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control signals).
   2.   The City Council is hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine:
      a.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
      b.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection, in which event, it shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
   3.   Every stop and yield sign shall be erected as near as practicable to
the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
there is not crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the nearest line of the
intersecting roadway.
§§ 18-88 THROUGH 18-99 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 6: PARKING, STOPPING AND LOADING
§ 18-100 STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   1.   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with state law, ordinance, the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, or in an emergency
situation, in any of the following places:
      a.   On any sidewalk or between the sidewalk and any street;
      b.   In front of, or obstructing, any public or private driveway;
      c.   Within an intersection;
      d.   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant (except in an officially-marked
parking space);
      e.   Within or on a crosswalk;
      f.   Within 20 feet of the driveway of any fire station;
      g.   Near any street work or excavation, when stopping or parking would
obstruct traffic;
      h.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (double-parking or double-stopping);
      i.   In an alley where less than ten feet of the roadway will be left
available for the movement of vehicular traffic; or
      j.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   2.   The City Council is hereby authorized to establish parking time limits,
and to prohibit parking on designated streets and parts of streets by having
appropriate signs placed thereon.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in
any parking space on:
      a.   Private property accessible to the public and where the public is
invited; or
      b.   On public property, that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of physically disabled persons, unless such
person has a physical disability insignia (consistent with the provisions of 47
O.S. §§ 11-1007 and 15-112) and such insignia is displayed as provided as
provided in said 47 O.S. §§ 11-1007 and 15-112 (or other regulations adopted
pursuant thereto).
§ 18-101 ANGLE PARKING.
   1.   The City Council may determine upon what streets and parts of streets,
angle parking shall be permitted, and shall have such streets marked or signed.
   2.   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking,
no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings, or outside of the area
enclosed by said markings.
§ 18-102 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB; BRAKES.
   1.   Except as otherwise provided in this article, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs, shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to, and within 18
inches of, the right-hand curb; provided, that, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon the left-hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs,
shall be parked or stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to, and within 18
inches of, the left-hand curb.
   2.   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles.
§ 18-103 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRUCK PARKING.
   1.   It shall be unlawful to place or park a motor vehicle or a trailer upon
the posted private property of another, without first obtaining permission from
the person in charge of such property, except where said placing or parking is
involuntary.
   2.   A landowner, or other person in charge of the land, may cause any motor
vehicle or trailer which is left on private property after posted hours, to be
removed and impounded by an appropriate wrecker service. The Police Department
or any police officer is also authorized to remove any unauthorized vehicles
from private property upon direction of the owner of the property or persons in
charge of the property. The city, any landowner or person in charge of the
property shall not be liable for any damages which may occur to the trespassing
vehicle or trailer under the terms of this section, while the same is
trespassing, while it is being removed from said property or while it is in
storage.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck or trailer over one
ton capacity or being used for transport of gasoline or liquefied petroleum
gas, on any street or alley in any residential area of the city.
§ 18-104 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   1.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or ordinance
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
ordinance, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   2.   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure of
giving a citation tag has been followed.
§ 18-105 LOADING ZONES.
   1.   The City Council is hereby authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall have appropriate signs
placed, indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions
of this section are applicable. By the same authority, such loading zones may
be changed or discontinued.
   2.   When such a loading zone is established upon the request of any person,
firm or corporation, the City Council shall not have signs placed until the
applicant has paid to the City Clerk an amount of money estimated by said City
Council to be adequate to reimburse the city for all costs of establishing the
signing of the same.
   3.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length
of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone, during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
§§ 18-106 THROUGH 18-119 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 7: BICYCLES
§ 18-120 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of this state declaring the rules of the road applicable to
vehicles, or by the ordinances of the city, applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this article and to those
provisions of state law or ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application.
§ 18-121 BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from all distances, up to 500 feet to
the front, and with a red reflector on the rear, of a type which shall be
visible from all distances up to 300 feet to the rear, when directly in front
of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
§ 18-122 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   1.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   2.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or
U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction
of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make
any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
§ 18-123 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   1.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at a time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   2.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a vehicle standing or proceeding in the same direction.
   3.   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and not the roadway.
   4.   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   5.   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall yield the right-of-way to all approaching pedestrians, and upon entering
a roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all approaching pedestrians, and
upon entering a roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on such roadway.
   6.   The City Council is authorized to have signs placed on any sidewalk or
trafficway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person; when such
signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
§§ 18-124 THROUGH 18-139 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 8: PEDESTRIANS
§ 18-140 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals, but, at all other
places, shall be granted those rights and be subject to those restrictions in
this article.
§ 18-141 PEDESTRIANS.
   1.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if
need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk.
   2.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave any place of safety, or walk or run
into the path of a vehicle.
   3.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
§ 18-142 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this article, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
§§ 18-143 THROUGH 18-149 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 9: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 18-150 OBEDIENCE TO CHAPTER.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to authorize
or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his, her or its name, to be
driven or be parked in violation of any provisions of this chapter.
   2.   The parent or guardian of any child or ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
§ 18-151 PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
    1.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned by, or used in the service of, the United States government, and
any state, county, municipal or other governmental unit or agency, as well as
to other vehicles; it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of
the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter
or by state law.
   2.   This chapter shall not apply to the military forces of the United
States and organizations of the National Guard when performing military duty.
§ 18-152 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provisions of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily-observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
§ 18-153 VEHICLES: EQUIPMENT; LICENSING; INSPECTION; SECURITY FORM.
   1.   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which is not equipped as
required by law upon any street within the city. It shall also be unlawful to
fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, use it in a manner
prohibited by law or to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law
upon any street within said city.
   2.   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of
the city, unless such vehicle is licensed and displays a valid license plate
thereon, as required by state law.
   3.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
said vehicle within the boundaries of the city, shall carry in such vehicle at
all times a current owner’s security verification form (or an equivalent form
which has been used by the Department of Public Safety) listing the vehicle,
which shall be produced by any driver thereof, upon request, for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown, upon request, to any person affected by said collision.
   4.   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or operator’s
security verification form (or an equivalent form) from the Department of
Public Safety during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to
surrender such form for vehicle registration purposes:
      a.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      b.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of a business,
corporation or utility on the exterior, and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the Department of Public
Safety (which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance or fleet policy);
      c.   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the State Corporation Commission;
      d.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      e.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed, used motor vehicle dealer.
   5.   The following definitions shall apply to subsections 3., 4., 6., 7., 8.
and 9. of this section:
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state, as found in 47
O.S. Chapter 7, Article VI.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY OF LIABILITY INSURANCE. Insures the named person
against loss from the liability imposed by Llaw for damages arising out of the
operation or use of any motor vehicle not owned by said person, subject to the
same limits of liability required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
         (1)   Shall designate, by explicit description or by appropriate
reference, all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be
granted;
         (2)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in this subsection (2), using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
         (3)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing law; and
         (4)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (1)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (2)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-205, as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
         (3)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board of
Property and Casualty Rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the compulsory insurance law of the state. Said form shall contain the
following minimum information:
         (1)   Name and address of carrier;
         (2)   Name and address where security may be verified, if other than
carrier;
         (3)   Name of insured;
      (4)   Notice that an owner’s policy has been issued pursuant to
compulsory insurance law;
      (5)   Year, make and at least the last three digits of VIN of each
insured vehicle (not required if owner’s form states “fleet coverage”);
      (6)   Inclusive dates liability policy is in effect; and
      (7)   A warning to the owner of state law requirements.
   6.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state, shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the corporate limits of the city
carry either an operator’s or an owner’s security verification form issued by a
carrier (providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon) or an
equivalent form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability
coverage. An owner’s security verification form issued to the owner of a motor
vehicle may be used as an operator’s security verification form by an operator
who is not the owner of the motor vehicle, if said operator is not excluded
from coverage on the motor vehicle liability insurance policy for the vehicle;
any such exclusions from said policy shall be included on the owner’s security
verification form. An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a
valid and current security verification form (or equivalent form) which has
been issued by the Department, upon request of any peace officer of the city,
Police Department, shall be guilty of an offense.
   7.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   8.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Department of
Public Safety reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force
at the time of the alleged offense, shall be entitled to dismissal of such
charge.
   9.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the Department of Public Safety within ten
days, reflecting the action taken by the court.
§ 18-154 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the city at any time, with reasonable cause, to determine
whether it is safe, properly-equipped and whether its equipment is in proper
adjustment and repair.
§ 18-155 MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle, motorscooter or motorbicycle shall ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry
any other person, nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle, unless it is
designed to carry more than one person; in such event, a passenger may ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
§ 18-156 CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   1.   Municipal personnel, contractors or utility companies, while repairing
or improving the streets of the city, or when installing, improving or
repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized, subject to control by the City Council, to close any street, or
section thereof, to traffic during such activity and shall erect or cause to be
erected, proper control devices and barricades to warn the public that such
street has been closed to traffic.
   2.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection 1. above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been
erected, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle under, over,
around or through such traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to
enter the closed area (except that the provisions of this subsection 2. shall
not apply to persons while engaged in such construction, maintenance and
repair, to persons having their places of residence or business within such
closed area, who may travel through such area at their own risk).
   3.   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street, utility
line or facility is being performed, and the street is not closed to traffic in
accord with this section, the municipal personnel, contractor or utility
company concerned shall erect warning devices for the public. Every person
using such street shall obey such warning devices.
§ 18-157 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS.
   1.   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this chapter,
except those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall
not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities; provided, that, all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flaggers.
   2.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
§ 18-158 RIDING OR CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   1.   No person shall ride upon any vehicle or portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or persons riding within
truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   2.   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, skateboard,
sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same to any vehicle upon a roadway.
§ 18-159 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause to be placed, or let
fall and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass,
stick or other thing which is likely to injure persons, damage property or
render a street unsafe for traffic.
§ 18-160 FUNERALS.
   1.   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   2.   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers.
§ 18-161 ELUDING A POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any operator of a motor vehicle who
has received a visual and/or an audible signal (red light and/or a siren) from
a police officer driving a motor vehicle, with insignia showing the same to be
an official police, sheriff or highway patrol car, directing the operator to
bring his or her vehicle to a stop, to willfully increase his or her speed or
extinguish his or her lights in an attempt to elude such police officer, to
willfully attempt, in any other manner, to elude the police officer, or to
elude such police officer.
§ 18-162 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than when on official business, shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm, closer than
500 feet, or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
§ 18-163 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of any Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department when laid down on any
street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the
consent of the Fire Department official in command.
§ 18-164 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW.
   1.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are, in the front seat, such a number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   2.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
§ 18-165 SEAT BELT USAGE; CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   1.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208. For the purposes of this section,
PASSENGER CAR shall mean automobile as defined in the 47 O.S. § 12-417, except
that passenger car shall not include trucks, pick-up trucks, truck-tractors,
recreational vehicles, vans, motorcycles or motorized bicycles, unless and
until said exempt vehicles are included in coverage provisions by state law.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a passenger
car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written verification from a
physician licensed in this state that said person is unable to wear a safety
seat belt system for medical reasons; provided, that, the issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety belt system.
   3.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who is a
route carrier of the United States Postal Service.
   4.   No police officer of the city shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing this section.
   5.   Every driver, when transporting a child under six years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets or highways of this state shall
provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child passenger
restraint system. For purposes of this section and 47 O.S.
§ 11-1113, CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child passenger
restraint system which meets the federal standards as set by 49 C.F.R. §
571.213.
   6.   Children at least six years of age but younger than 13 years of age
shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   7.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      a.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      b.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      c.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
      d.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable to
be placed in such devices; or
      e.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds and who
is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap
safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with combination
lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and shoulder safety
belts in the back seat are being used by other children who weigh more than 40
pounds; provided, however, for purposes of this subsection 7.e., back seat
shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle operated by
a licensed child care facility or church; provided further, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements of this
subsection 7.e. if at the request of any law enforcement officer, the licensed
child care facility or church provides the officer with a written statement
verified by the parent or legal guardian, that the child weighs more than 40
pounds.
   8.   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if it
appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
section and to give an oral warning to said driver. The warning shall advise
the driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to
install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat belts in the motor
vehicle.
   9.   A violation of the provisions of this section shall be admissible as
evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages unless the plaintiff in
such action or proceeding is a child under 16 years of age. In any action
brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or wrongful death
sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any person to have the
infant properly restrained in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
   10.   Any person convicted of violating subsection 1. or 2. above shall be
punished by a fine of $50 and shall pay all court costs thereof. Revenue from
such fine shall be apportioned to the Department of Public Safety Revolving
Fund and used by the State Highway Safety Office to promote the use of child
passenger restraint systems as provided in 47 O.S. § 11-1113. This fine shall
be suspended and the court costs limited to a maximum of $15 in the case of the
first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child
passenger restraint system; provided, the Department of Public Safety shall not
assess points to the driving record of any person convicted of a violation of
this section.
§§ 18-166 THROUGH 18-199 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 10: PENALTY
§ 18-200 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
performs any unlawful act as defined in this chapter or fails to perform any
act required in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any amount not to exceed the limits
established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 19: TRANSPORTATION
Section
Article 1: Railroads
   
19-1   Railroads to improve certain streets and alleys
   
19-2   Climbing on trains
   
19-3   Speed of trains
   
19-4   Loitering on railroad premises
   
19-5   Blocking of streets by trains
   
19-6 through 19-19 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
19-20 through 19-49 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Penalty
   
19-50   Penalty
ARTICLE 1: RAILROADS
§ 19-1 RAILROADS TO IMPROVE CERTAIN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   1.   When a railway occupies or crosses any portion of a street with its
tracks either on or adjacent thereto, the railroad company shall improve as
much of the street as is occupied by its tracks and the right-of-way
boundaries, in a manner satisfactory to the City Council.
   2.   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in
good state of repair at all times.
§ 19-2 CLIMBING ON TRAINS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to or in any
manner attach to, any train or railroad car, while such is in motion within the
city, unless such person is acting in the line of duty.
   2.   It shall also be unlawful to board any train or railroad car
(passenger, freight or other) without a proper ticket or the permission of the
person in charge of the train or railroad car, or not in the line of duty.
§ 19-3 SPEED OF TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a train or railroad
car(s) at a speed greater than 30 mph within the corporate boundaries of the
city.
§ 19-4 LOITERING ON RAILROAD PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not acting within the line of duty, not
having any proper business or not being on any proper mission requiring said
person’s presence there, to loiter anywhere a railroad yard or upon other
railroad premises.
§ 19-5 BLOCKING OF STREETS BY TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any train to block any street
intersection within the corporate boundaries of the city, at any time, for more
than five minutes; provided, that, this shall not apply to cars in motion,
other than those engaged in switching.
§§ 19-6 THROUGH 19-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§§ 19-20 THROUGH 19-49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: PENALTY
§ 19-50 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any amount not exceeding the limits established in
Chapter 11,
Article 3,
§ 11-50 of this code of ordinances. Each day’s continuation of any such
violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 20: WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
Section
Article 1: Municipal Wards
   
20-1   Ward boundaries established
   
20-2 through 20-4 Reserved for future use
Article 2: Corporate Boundaries
   
20-5   Corporate boundaries map
   
20-6 through 20-9 Reserved for future use
Article 3: Zoning District Boundaries
   
20-10   Zoning district boundaries
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL WARDS
§ 20-1 WARD BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED.
   The boundaries of the four wards within the city shall be as follows:
   1.   Ward One: the area within the city limits and bounded on the south by
the Burlington Northern Railroad tracks and bounded on the east by a line
described as beginning at the intersection of the center of said railroad track
and the east line of the S/2, Section 24, T-2-N, R-14-W.I.M.; thence north on
the east line of said W/2 to the southwest corner of Caldwell Addition; thence
east on the south line of Caldwell Addition to the southeast corner of Caldwell
Addition; thence north on the east line of Caldwell Addition and a straight-
line extension thereof to the north line of said Section 24; thence east on
said north line to its point intersection with the south right-of-way line of
U.S. Highway 62; thence westerly on said south right-of-way line to its point
of intersection with the east line of SW/4, Section 13, T-2-N, R-14-W.I.M.;
thence north on said east line to the northeast corner of said SW/4;
   2.   Ward Two: that area within the city limits and bounded on the west by
the east boundary of Ward One plus a line described as beginning at the
southeast corner of the Ward One boundary; thence easterly on the center of the
Burlington Northern Railroad track to a point north of the northeast corner of
Lot 9, Block 1, Crater Creek Estates Part 1; thence south to the northeast
corner of said Lot 9; thence southwesterly on the east line of said Lot 9 and a
straight-line extension of said line to a point of intersection with the center
of North Elk Drive; thence southerly on the center of North Elk Drive to the
center East “D” Avenue; thence westerly on the center of East “D” Avenue to the
center of South First Street; thence south on the center of South First Street
to the center of East “E” Avenue; thence easterly on the center of East “E”
Avenue to the center of South Elk Drive; thence south on the center of South
Elk Drive to the center of East “G” Avenue; thence easterly on the center of
East “G” Avenue to the center of Deer Drive; thence south on the center of Deer
Drive to the center of “H” Avenue (AKA Cache Road); thence east on the center
of “H” Avenue said line also being the south line of Section 24, T-2-N, R-14-
W.I.M., to the southeast corner of said Section 24; thence continuing east on
the south line of Section 19, T-2-N, R-13-W.I.M. to the southeast corner of
said Section 19; thence continuing east on the south line of Section 20, T-2-N,
R-13-W.I.M., to the southeast corner of said Section 20;
   3.   Ward Three: that area within Section 24, T-2-N, R-14-W.I.M. not
included in the boundaries of Wards One and Two but located within the city
limits bounded on the west by a line beginning at the intersection of a
straight-line extension of the center of South Sixth Street and the center of
the Burlington Northern Railroad track and extending south on the center of
South Sixth Street and a straight-line extension thereof to the south line said
Section 24. And, all are in Section 25, T-2-N, R-14-W.I.M., within the city
limits; and
   4.   Ward Four: that area within the city limits, bounded on the north by
the Burlington Northern Railroad track and the east by the west boundary of
Ward Three.
§§ 20-2 THROUGH 20-4 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 2: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
§ 20-5 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES MAP.
   1.   A map depicting the current corporate boundaries of the city shall be
maintained and displayed in the office of the City Clerk.
   2.   This map shall reflect all current annexation and de-annexation
ordinances and orders, all plat and/or street vacation orders, and all official
street names and shall represent the official map of the corporate boundaries
of the city.
   3.   This map may be combined with the official zoning districts map (See
Article 3 of this
Chapter 20). All dedicated streets and alleys shall be shown on this map;
vacated streets and alleys shall not be shown on said map, but shall be re-
drawn by the methods provided by Oklahoma Statutes.
   4.   This map shall be available for public inspection.
§§ 20-6 THROUGH 20-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3: ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
§ 20-10 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   1.   A map showing the boundaries of all current zoning districts within the
entire corporate boundaries of the city shall be maintained in the office of
the City Clerk, if a zoning ordinance is in effect within said municipality.
   2.   This map shall reflect all current zoning ordinance provisions (see
Chapter 15 of this code of ordinances) and all current ordinances rezoning
land, and shall represent the official zoning districts map for the city.
   3.   This map may be combined with the official map of the corporate limits
of the city. (See
Article 2 of this
Chapter 20.)
   4.   This map shall be available for public inspection.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Code Section Code Section
O.S. Code Section                        Code Section
4 O.S. § 4-85.10                        3-11
4 O.S. § 499.4                          3-16
4 O.S. Chapter 15, §§ 501 to 508       3-14
11 O.S. §§ 16-101 et seq.              1-20
11 O.S. § 16-302                        1-20
11 O.S. § 22-111                        12-23
11 O.S. § 22-115                        3-1 ,
                                         3-9
11 O.S. § 27-123                        11-31
11 O.S. §§ 29-201 through 29- 205      7-1
11 O.S. § 45-104                        15-71
11 O.S. § 46-103                        15-71
11 O.S. § 46-104                        15-71
O.S. Title 21                            13-5
21 O.S. § 1272                          13-40
21 O.S. § 1682                          3-7
21 O.S. § 1683                          3-7
22 O.S. § 718                           11-32
22 O.S. § 722                           11-32
22 O.S. §§ 1181 et seq.                1-24
25 O.S. §§ 301 through 314             1-20 ,
                                         15-3
25 O.S. § 307.1                         1-23
27A O.S. §§ 2-10-101 et seq.           16-61
29 O.S. § 4-119                         3-3
O.S. Title 36                            3-36
O.S. Title 37A                           2-30
37A O.S. §§ 1 through 168              2-1
37A O.S. § 1-103                        2-2
O.S. Title 47                            18-1
47 O.S. §§ 1-100 through 1- 186        18-1
47 O.S. Chapter 7, Article VI            18-153
47 O.S. § 7-204                         18-153
47 O.S. § 7-205                         18-153
47 O.S. § 7-503                         18-153
47 O.S. § 8-104                         5-103
47 O.S. § 11-1007                       18-100
47 O.S. § 11-1113                       18-165
47 O.S. § 12-417                        18-165
47 O.S. § 15-112                        18-100
62 O.S. §§ 901 et seq.                 1-57
63 O.S. Chapter 30, §§ 701 through 709.5-101
68 O.S. § 205                           1-119 ,
                                         1-152
68 O.S. § 217                           1-114 ,
                                         1-147
68 O.S. § 220                           1-116
                                         1-117 ,
68 O.S. § 227                           1-149 ,
                                         1-150
68 O.S. § 1352                          1-101
68 O.S. § 1401                          1-154
68 O.S. § 1408                          1-146
68 O.S. §§ 1624 et seq.                7-30
68 O.S. §§ 2601-2605                   1-235
75 O.S. §§ 308 through 317             1-45
82 O.S. Chapter 23, Title 82             4-165
82 O.S. § 1084.2                        17-4
82 O.S. §§ 1601 through 1620.1         4-150 ,
                                         4-163
                                         
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
64         - -         1-100—
                       1-121
113        - -         1-100—
                       1-121
168        - -         1-140—
                       1-157
10-04      4-19-2010   16-41
12-03      2-6-2011    16-23
11-06      3-21-2011   16-23
11-07      3-21-2011   16-43
12-04      4-9-2011    13-41
11-08      6-13-2011   16-21
11-09      6-13-2011   16-23
11-10      7-11-2011   11-16
11-11      7-11-2011   16-23
12-01      1-17-2012   3-13
12-02      2-6-2012    4-1
12-05      5-14-2012   13-80
12-07      6-11-2012   3-94
12-08      6-11-2012   3-102
12-10      7-2-2012    15-142
12-09      8-13-2012   5-107
13-01      2-11-2013   16-65
2013-02    3-4-2013    12-23
13-03      5-13-2013   1-235
13-04      6-10-2013   11-16
13-06      11-12-2013  11-16
14-01      1-13-2014   13-22
1402       2-10-2014   4-1
14-3       4-14-2014   18-46
14-4       4-14-2014   16-23
14-05      6-9-2014    4-21
14-6       10-13-2014  3-17
14-07      12-8-2014   5-60—
                       5-68
15-1       1-13-2015   10-3
15-2       2-10-2015   10-3
16-01      6-13-2016   4-20
16-02      6-13-2016   16-23
16-3       9-20-2016   16-65
17-02      6-12-2017   7-30
17-03      11-13-2017  16-65
17-4       11-13-2017  16-65
2017-05    12-11-2017  5-107
2018-01    10-15-2018  2-1,
                       2-2
2019-19-01 3-8-2019    1-2
19-02      3-11-2019   4-20
2019-03    7-8-2019    4-21
2019-05    7-8-2019    4-101—
                       4-108
2019-06    9-9-2019    5-150—
                       5-155
2019-07    11-18-2019  5-7—
                       5-11
2019-08    11-18-2019  5-106
2019-09    11-18-2019  10-3
2019-10    11-18-2019  10-2
2019-11    12-9-2019   1-84
2020-      11-9-2020   10-3
2021-01    2-8-2021    3-102
21-02      2-8-2021    4-1
2021-04    5-17-2021   16-23
2021-05    5-17-2021   16-43
2021-07    8-9-2021    3-102
21-08      11-8-2021   16-23
21-09      11-8-2021   16-65
21-10      11-8-2021   16-43
2022-03    5-9-2022    16-23
2022-04    5-9-2022    16-65
2022-05    5-9-2022    16-65
2022-06    6-13-2022   1-81
22-07      8-24-2022   7-21
22-08      10-11-2022  16-23
2023-03    6-12-2023   16-65
2023-04    6-12-2023   1-107
2023-05    6-12-2023   1-230
2023-06    7-10-2023   1-41
2023-07    8-13-2023   4-20
2023-08    9-11-2023   1-23
2023-09    10-19-2023  15-3
2023-10    11-14-2023  4-1
2023-11    12-11-2023  13-40
23-12      12-11-2023  16-23
2023-13    12-11-2023  16-43
2023-14    12-11-2023  16-65
2023-15    12-11-2023  2-11
2023-16    12-11-2023  16-23
2024-01    1-9-2024    2-20
2024-02    1-9-2024    13-19
2024-03    2-12-2024   3-102
2024-04    4-9-2024    4-40—
                       4-45
2024-05    2-12-2024   4-20
2024-06    4-9-2024    13-21
2024-08    6-11-2024   15-37
2024-09    7-9-2024    7-22
2024-10    7-9-2024    15-144
2024-11    8-13-2024   1-23
2024-12    8-13-2024   1-251
2024-13    9-10-2024   4-1
2024-14    9-10-2024   4-2
2024-15    10-8-2024   11-16
2024-16    11-12-2024  10-3
2024-17    11-12-2024  5-11
2024-18    12-10-2024  1-20
2024-19    11-12-2024  16-65
2025-1     1-14-2025   3-23
23-17      2-11-2025   7-21
2025-3     3-11-2025   16-65
2025-05    7-8-2025    15-144
2025-06    7-8-2025    15-124
2025-07    7-8-2025    17-2-1
                      
                      
 
