CALERA, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2022-10, passed 11-10-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Ordinances in effect in outlying territory of town
   
10.03   Interpretation
   
10.04   Application to future ordinances
   
10.05   Catchlines of sections; citations
   
10.06   Definitions
   
10.07   Rules of interpretation
   
10.08   Severability
   
10.09   Reference to statutes
   
10.10   Reference to other sections
   
10.11   Reference to offices
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Altering code
   
10.14   Official time
   
10.15   Reasonable time
   
10.16   Ordinances repealed
   
10.17   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.18   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.19   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.20   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.21   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   Amendment to code, amendment language, effect of new ordinances, see 11 O.S.
§§ 14-103 et seq.
   Town ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated the “Code of Ordinances, Town of Calera,
Oklahoma,” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
   (B)   When a change or changes have been prepared and inserted in the code
as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be added to the citation
or title when referring to the code as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108 and 14-
109
§ 10.02 ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF TOWN.
   (A)   All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby
extended to all real property belonging to or under the control of the town
which is outside of the corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full
effect therein insofar as they are applicable. All ordinances of the town which
shall go into effect in the future shall also apply to and be in full effect
within the boundaries of all outlying real property insofar as they may be
applicable.
   (B)   Any words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance
provision is limited to the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to
mean and include also the outlying real property belonging to or under the
control of the town, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-110)
§ 10.03 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.04 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.05 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS.
   The catchlines of sections in this code are printed in capital letters and
bolded, and citations included at the ends of sections are intended to indicate
the contents of the section and original historical source, respectively, and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles and official sources of such
sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly provided, shall
they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines or
citations, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
§ 10.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases which are not specifically defined
shall be construed according to the common and accepted usage of the language,
but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar
and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to
such meaning.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES or TOWN BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Town of
Calera.
      CODE, THE/THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY or THE/THIS COUNTY. The County of Bryan, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the state
constitution and state statutes, the ordinances of the town and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which,
by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, such as “Clerk-Treasurer,”
“Town Clerk-Treasurer,” “Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief” and the
like, they shall mean the officers, agencies or departments of the town.
      PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to an actual person or any persons,
to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and
corporate and to the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Shall include real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE or THE/THIS STATE. Shall be construed to mean the State of
Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the State of Oklahoma
as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
      STREET. Shall be construed to embrace a street, avenue, boulevard, road,
alley, lane, viaduct, highway, court, place, square, curb or any other public
way in the town which is dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, THE/THIS TOWN, or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Calera, Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 10.07 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   “And” or “or.” If the sense requires it, “and” may be read “or” and
“or” may be read “and.”
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied
to other genders, and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well.
   (D)   Singular and plural. A word importing the singular number only may
extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person
and thing. Words used in the plural number may also include the singular,
unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
   (E)   Tenses. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   (F)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 10.08 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Trustees that the
sections, divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable,
and if any phrase, clause, sentence, division or section of this code or of any
ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise
invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
then such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions and sections of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-105)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions
any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which
will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby. Any person
violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-107)
§ 10.14 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The OFFICIAL TIME, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.15 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done a
certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which the
notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the time but
the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature passed prior to and in effect at the time this code is adopted but which
are not included in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code
goes into effect.
   (B)   Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or
amended by the adoption of this code.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.18 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.19 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend,
repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion
thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from
reprinted pages.
      (2)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired
to be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as
the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-106)
   (B)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   (1)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or
penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or
proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under
the ordinance repealed.
      (2)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
   (D)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.20 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the Board
of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section or sections of
this code in substantially the following language.
 
Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Calera, Oklahoma, that
Section _________ of the code of ordinances of the Town of Calera, Oklahoma, is
hereby amended to read as follows: (set out new provisions in full).
 
      (2)   When the Board of Trustees desires to enact an ordinance of a
general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in this code
and which the Board desires to incorporate into this code, a section in
substantially the following language may be made part of the ordinance.
 
Section _________ Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Calera, Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be
made a part of the code of ordinances of the Town of Calera, Oklahoma, and the
sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish this intention.
 
(Prior Code, § 1-106)
§ 10.21 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance is listed following the text of a code section.
Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the Prior Code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § 50.01).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code
or in any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this code or in any
ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500. Each day or any portion of a
day during which any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   A Municipal Court technology fee shall be and is hereby established
in the amount of $15. The fee shall be in addition to and not in substitution
for any and all costs, fees, fines or penalties otherwise provided for by law
and assessed on every citation disposed of in the Municipal Court, except for
those that are voided, declined for prosecution or dismissed without costs or
where the defendant is acquitted. The revenues generated by this fee shall be
used solely and exclusively for the acquisition, operation, maintenance, repair
and replacement of data processing equipment and software relating to the
administration of the municipal criminal justice system and the costs of
prosecution.
      (3)   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
division (A).
(Prior Code, § 1-108)
   (B)   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-109)
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Designating map of town as official map
   
11.02   No ward boundaries
§ 11.01 DESIGNATING MAP OF TOWN AS OFFICIAL MAP.
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town through and including the date of July 1, 1989,
and as thereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
§ 11.02 NO WARD BOUNDARIES.
   The town is not divided into wards.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 90-1 provides for at-large rather than by-ward elections of Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 2-105, 20-101 and 20-102 through 20-105
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
34.   FINANCES AND TAXES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
Town Board of Trustees
   
30.01   General powers
   
30.02   Membership; elections and term
   
30.03   Meetings
   
30.04   Rules of order and procedure
   
30.05   Trustees designated to perform duties
Town Mayor
   
30.20   Election and term
   
30.21   Duties
TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 12-103.1, the town shall have
all of the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities
granted, or which may be granted, to towns governed by the statutory town board
of trustees-form of government. These powers shall be exercised as provided by
law applicable to towns under the board of trustees-form of government, or, if
the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as the Board of Trustees may
prescribe.
   (B)   The powers, rights and authorities of the town, including the
determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and exercised by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 30.02 MEMBERSHIP; ELECTIONS AND TERM.
   (A)   Membership. The Board of Trustees shall be composed of five members,
who shall be nominated and elected by the town at large without regard to their
place of residence in the town. Trustees shall be actual residents and
registered voters of the town.
   (B)   Term. The term of office for a Trustee shall be four years, beginning
at noon, 12:00 p.m., on the second Monday following the general municipal
election. A Trustee shall serve until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
   (C)   Staggered elections.
      (1)   The terms of the Trustees shall be staggered so that at one general
municipal election, the following are elected for four-year terms:
         (a)   Trustee one;
         (b)   Trustee three;
         (c)   Trustee five; and
         (d)   Clerk.
      (2)   At the next general municipal election, the following are to be
elected for four-year terms:
         (a)   Trustee two;
         (b)   Trustee four; and
         (c)   Treasurer.
   (D)   Election resolutions. A resolution of the Board of Trustees calling
for a general or special election to fill the Office of Trustee shall state the
number of four-year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be
filled.
(Prior Code, § 2-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 8-102, 8-109, 12-102, 12-102.1, 12-103
and 16-205
§ 30.03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Time of meetings. The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly on the
second Thursday of each month at 3:30 p.m., and at such other times as it may
prescribe by ordinance, resolution or otherwise, at Town Hall. Special meetings
may be called by the Mayor or by any three Trustees.
   (B)   Location of meetings. Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be
held in Town Hall unless, in the case of an emergency, the Mayor designates
another place in the town for the holding of a special meeting. Any adjourned
meeting may be held at any other place within the town designated by the Board.
   (C)   Majority a quorum. A majority of all of the members of the Board shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day
to day.
(Prior Code, § 2-103) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-13-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 12-107; 25 O.S. §§ 301 through 314
§ 30.04 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The Board may determine its own rules and may compel the
attendance of absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may
prescribe.
      (2)   Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half of all
meetings of the Board, regular and special, held within any period of four
consecutive months, he or she shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   (B)   The order of business for each meeting of the Board may be as posted
on the agenda for the meeting.
   (C)   Robert’s Rules of Order, the latest edition thereof, shall govern the
procedures of meetings of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
§ 30.05 TRUSTEES DESIGNATED TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a
committee of its members to have the supervision of various personnel and
activities of the town, such as streets, water systems and so on, and may give
each such Trustee or committee designated an appropriate title.
   (B)   Each such Trustee or committee so designated shall be subordinate to
the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-105)
TOWN MAYOR
§ 30.20 ELECTION AND TERM.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members a Mayor. The
Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Board of Trustees
meeting held after Trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
The Mayor shall serve until his or her successor has been elected and
qualified.
   (B)   During the absence, disability or suspension of the Mayor, the Board
shall elect from among its members an Acting Mayor. When a vacancy occurs in
the office of the Mayor, the Board shall elect another Mayor from among its
members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Election of Town Mayor, Acting Mayor, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-104 and 12-105
§ 30.21 DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall certify to the
correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He or she
shall be recognized as the head of the town government for all ceremonial
purposes and shall have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all of the powers, rights,
duties and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the right to vote on
questions.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Officers and Employees
   
31.01   Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.02   Town Attorney
   
31.03   Town Health Officer
   
31.04   Other personnel
Personnel Policies
   
31.15   Bonds
   
31.16   Oaths
   
31.17   Salaries of elective town officers
   
31.18   Employee compensation; personnel number and classes
   
31.19   Certain salaries not changed after election or appointment
   
31.20   Officers continue until successors are elected and qualify
   
31.21   Emergency personnel appointments
   
31.22   Layoffs, suspensions, demotions or removals; appeals
   
31.23   Employee Retirement System
   
31.24   Social Security
   
31.25   Firefighters Pension and Retirement Fund
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.01 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
be elected for a term of four years beginning at the municipal election held on
April 4, 2017, and thereafter for a term of four years as provided by law for
the election of a Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him or her by statute and ordinance and such other authority as may
be granted to him or her by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-301) (Ord. 2015-03, passed 9-1-2015)
§ 31.02 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Attorney or may secure the
services of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when needed.
   (B)   The Town Attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal adviser
of the Board and all officers, departments and agencies of the town government
in matters relating to their official powers and duties. He or she shall
represent the town in proceedings in the courts. He or she shall perform all
services incident to his or her position which may be required by law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)
§ 31.03 TOWN HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer. The County Health
Officer or any qualified personnel of the State Department of Health may
perform the duties and functions of a Town Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-304)
§ 31.04 OTHER PERSONNEL.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint such other officers and employees as it
deems desirable and may determine their compensation by motion or resolution,
and may demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel in compliance
with due process and other requirements of law.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 31.15 BONDS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer and any other officers and employees who the
Town Board may designate, by ordinance or otherwise, shall give bond for the
faithful performance of their duties in such amount and form as the Board shall
prescribe. The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
   (B)   The town may require the officer to secure the bond within ten days
after his or her election or appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-306)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 8-105
§ 31.16 OATHS.
   (A)   All officers of the town, but not employees, are required to take the
oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the State Constitution before they
enter upon their duties.
   (B)   Both officers and employees are currently required to take and
subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-310)
§ 31.17 SALARIES OF ELECTIVE TOWN OFFICERS.
   (A)   Generally. The compensation of all elective town officers, including
the following, shall be fixed by ordinance:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   Each Trustee; and
      (3)   Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Meeting attendance. Elected officials shall receive $100 for the
regularly-scheduled meetings and $50 for special meetings, not to exceed $150
per month, as compensation for their duties, half of which is to be paid from
the Public Works Authority and half from the town’s general government. Changes
in pay shall not go into effect until the next term of office.
   (C)   Salary adjustments. Any increase or decrease in the salary of the
Clerk-Treasurer for legal duties shall not go into effect until the next term
of office.
(Prior Code, § 2-307) (Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-9-2007; Ord. 2019-01, passed 1-
10-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 12-113
§ 31.18 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION; PERSONNEL NUMBER AND CLASSES.
   (A)   The compensation of all other officers and employees, excepting those
whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be determined
by a motion or resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees and may be changed
at any time in the same manner.
   (B)   Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of Trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-308)
§ 31.19 CERTAIN SALARIES NOT CHANGED AFTER ELECTION OR APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any town officer elected
or appointed for a definite term be changed after his or her election or
appointment or during his or her term of office unless by operation of an
ordinance passed prior to such election or appointment, such being prohibited
by Oklahoma Constitution Art. XXIII, § 10.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to officers chosen for indefinite
terms, nor to employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-309)
§ 31.20 OFFICERS CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND QUALIFY.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall continue
to serve thereafter until his or her successor is elected or appointed and
qualifies, unless his or her services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office or other legal
manner.
(Prior Code, § 2-311)
§ 31.21 EMERGENCY PERSONNEL APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      EMERGENCY. An unexpected or unforeseen contingency or catastrophic event
affecting the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Appointment conditions.
      (1)   The Mayor, in an emergency situation, may appoint such other
officers and employees as he or she may deem necessary to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the town during the existence of the
emergency, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees as soon as a
special meeting or regular meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may determine the compensation of such
emergency employees by motion or resolution and may direct the demotion, layoff
or removal of such personnel at the conclusion of such emergency.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
§ 31.22 LAYOFFS, SUSPENSIONS, DEMOTIONS OR REMOVALS; APPEALS.
   (A)   Employees or officers on probationary status may be laid off,
suspended without pay, demoted or removed at any time without the written
statement, hearing and procedures required in division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   Written appeal. An employee or officer who, after a probationary
period as set by the Town Board, is laid off, suspended without pay for more
than ten days, demoted or removed may appeal in writing to the Town Board. The
appeal must be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for transmittal to the Board
within ten days after receipt of the notice of the layoff, suspension, demotion
or removal.
      (2)   Hearing and judgment. As soon as practicable thereafter, the Board
shall conduct a hearing on the appeal or give adequate opportunity therefor,
shall report in writing its findings and recommendations and shall make its
final decision in writing regarding the appellant’s layoff, suspension,
demotion or removal. If the Board finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion
or removal was made in error, then it shall veto the layoff, suspension,
demotion or removal and order the reinstatement of the employee or officer.
      (3)   Proceeding procedures. Any proceedings of the Board shall be
subject to open- meeting laws and applicable exceptions provided for executive
sessions.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
§ 31.23 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Adoption. Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state
and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the
part of town employees, and thereby promoting public efficiency, there is
hereby authorized, created, established and approved and adopted, effective as
of December 1, 2014, the amended and restated plan designated the “Employee
Retirement System of the Town of Calera and Calera Public Works Authority,
Oklahoma, Defined Benefit Plan,” hereinafter called “the System,” an executed
counterpart of which is marked Exhibit A, “Joinder Agreement,” and Exhibit B,
“Amended and Restated Plan,” and attached to the ordinance codified herein as
part hereof as if set out herein in full.
(Prior Code, § 2-601)
   (B)   Fund.
      (1)   A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the
persons entitled to benefits under the System. All contributions to such fund
shall be paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the town.
      (2)   Such fund shall be pooled for the purpose of management and
investment with similar funds of other incorporated cities, towns and municipal
trusts in the state as a part of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund in
accordance with the trust agreement of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund,
a public trust.
      (3)   The town shall hold such contributions in the form received and
from time to time shall pay over and transfer the same to the Oklahoma
Municipal Retirement Fund as duly authorized and directed by the Board of
Trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal and shall not be considered in computing
any levy when the annual estimate is made to the County Excise Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-602)
   (C)   Appropriations.
      (1)   The Town of Calera and Calera Public Works Authority, Oklahoma, is
hereby authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the establishment,
operation and administration of the System and to appropriate and pay the same.
In addition, the Town of Calera and Calera Public Works Authority, Oklahoma, is
hereby authorized to appropriate annually such amounts as are required in
addition to employee contributions to maintain the System and the fund in
accordance with the provisions of the defined benefit plan.
      (2)   Any appropriation so made to maintain the System and fund shall be
for deferred wages or salaries and the payment of necessary expenses of
operation and administration to be transferred to the Trustees of the Oklahoma
Municipal Retirement Fund for such purposes, and shall be paid into the fund
when available to be duly transferred to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-603)
   (D)   Execution.
      (1)   The Mayor and Town Clerk-Treasurer be and they are each hereby
authorized and directed to execute in counterparts, each of which shall
constitute an original, the System instrument, and to do all other acts and
things necessary, advisable and proper to put said System and related trust
into full force and effect, and to make such changes therein as may be
necessary to qualify the same under I.R.C. §§ 401(a) and 501(a), being 26
U.S.C. §§ 401(a) and 501(a), respectively.
      (2)   The counterpart attached to the ordinance codified herein as
Exhibit A and Exhibit B, which has been duly executed as aforesaid
simultaneously with the passage of this section and made a part hereof as if
fully set out herein, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
      (3)   This Committee is hereby authorized and directed to proceed
immediately on behalf of the Town of Calera and Calera Public Works Authority,
Oklahoma, to pool and combine the fund into the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement
Fund as a part thereof with similar funds of such other cities and towns for
the purpose of pooled management and investment.
(Prior Code, § 2-604)
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 12-19-2014; Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-14-2022; Ord. 2022-03,
passed 4-14-2022; Ord. 2022-04, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 31.24 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Policy declaration. It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose
of the town to extend, at the earliest date, to the eligible employees and
officials of the town the benefits of the system of federal old-age and
survivors insurance as authorized by the federal Social Security Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., and all amendments thereto, and by 51 O.S. §§ 121 et
seq. In pursuance of this policy, the officers and employees of the town shall
take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-401)
   (B)   Execution of agreement with state agency. The Mayor is authorized and
directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments with the State
Department of Human Services to accomplish the provisions of division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 2-402)
   (C)   Withholdings. Withholdings from the salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in division (A) above are hereby authorized
to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable
state and federal laws or regulations, and such shall be paid over to the state
or federal agency designated by the laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-403)
   (D)   Contributions. Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts
appropriated for such purpose from available funds to the designated state or
federal agency in accordance with applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-404)
   (E)   Records and reports. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep such records
and submit such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws
or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-405)
   (F)   Exclusions. Excluded from this section authorizing the extension of
Social Security benefits to town officers and employees are the following:
      (1)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
town; or
      (2)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or to any
position, employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state
or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-406)
Statutory reference:
   Social Security coverage for local governments, see 51 O.S. § 125
§ 31.25 FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid
member of the Fire Department the appropriate amounts of money as established
and required by state law as contribution to the Firefighters Pension Fund.
      (2)   However, if the members of the Fire Department, by a majority vote
of its paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, then the
amounts authorized by this division (A) shall be increased to reflect the
amounts approved by the majority vote.
      (3)   The Treasurer of the town shall deposit monthly with the State
Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the amounts deducted pursuant to this
division (A). Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a Fire
Department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The deductions
shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to ascertain
the exact amount which he or she is contributing.
   (B)   The Town Treasurer shall deposit monthly with the State Firefighters
Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money as established and required
by state law for each paid member of the Fire Department.
   (C)   For each volunteer member of the Fire Department, the Town Treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the State Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board
the amounts of money as established and required by state law. These amounts
may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the State
Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board.
   (D)   All assets of the Town Firefighters Pension and Retirement Fund shall
be transferred to the State Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board. Assets
shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such other
specific assets as permitted by the Board.   
(Prior Code, § 2-501)
Statutory reference:
   Firefighters pension law, see 11 O.S. § 49-122
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Days and hours open
   
32.04   Jurisdiction of Court
   
32.05   Rules of Court
   
32.06   Enforcement of rules
   
32.07   Filing written complaints to prosecute violations
   
32.08   Summons for arrest
   
32.09   Form of arrest warrant
   
32.10   Bail or bond procedures
   
32.11   Bond and fine schedule
   
32.12   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
32.13   Witness fees
   
32.14   Trial and judgments
   
32.15   Bench warrants
   
32.16   Fines and costs upon conviction
   
32.17   Penalty assessment; deposit of funds
   
32.18   Imprisonment; work by prisoners
   
32.19   Suspension of judgment or costs; reconfinement
Traffic Violations
   
32.30   Traffic Violations Bureau created
   
32.31   Traffic ordinance violations; citation, custody and arrest procedures
   
32.32   Traffic bail bond procedures
Municipal Judges and Officials
   
32.45   Judge, qualifications and term
   
32.46   Alternate Judge; qualifications and term
   
32.47   Acting Judge
   
32.48   Appointing Judge and Alternate Judge
   
32.49   Salaries and payments to judges
   
32.50   Removal of a Judge
   
32.51   Vacancy in office of Judge
   
32.52   Disqualification of Judge
   
32.53   Court Clerk, duties and bond
   
32.54   Prosecuting Attorney, duties and conflict of interest
   
32.55   Court Marshal
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Criminal Court of the town as put into operation by resolution, duly passed and
filed in accordance with the law as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 and 27-102.
To the extent of a conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any ordinance of the town, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 through 27-131
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE or POLICE CHIEF. The peace officer in charge of the police
force of the municipality.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the municipality, including any
Deputy or member of the office staff of the Clerk-Treasurer while performing
the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the town.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Town Board of Trustees of the town.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of the state and this
chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY or THE MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Calera, Oklahoma.
   THE JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The district court judicial district of the State of
Oklahoma wherein the government of the municipality is situated.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 32.03 DAYS AND HOURS OPEN.
   The Municipal Judge shall be a conservator of the peace. His or her court
shall be open on the first Wednesday of each month beginning at 9:00 a.m.,
unless otherwise specified, and continue until further order of the Court. The
Court will hear and determine all cases cognizable before him or her. The
Municipal Judge may perform no other act on Sunday except to receive
complaints, issue process and take bail.
(Prior Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-13-2018; Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-
14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 through 27-131
§ 32.04 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance
with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 32.05 RULES OF COURT.
   The Judge may prescribe rules consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of the municipality for the proper conduct of the business of
the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
§ 32.06 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Judge or by the
Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him or her while holding court, or committed against a process
issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the district
courts of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
§ 32.07 FILING WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the municipality
shall be styled “The Town of Calera vs. (naming defendant or defendants).”
   (B)   Except as provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the
filing of a written complaint subscribed and verified by the person making such
complaint setting forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing
by the Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 32.08 SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance,
the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons naming the person charged,
specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her notice to answer
the charge in the Court on a certain day as specified after the summons is
served upon him or her, and including such other pertinent information as may
be necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the
defendant personally.
      (2)   If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, then a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as
provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-125)
§ 32.09 FORM OF ARREST WARRANT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Attorney of
the municipality or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest in
substantially the following form.
 
The Town of Calera to the Chief of Police of the Town of Calera, Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been committed
and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor forthwith
to arrest the above-named defendant and bring the above-named (name of
defendant) before me at the municipal courtroom,
Witness my hand this ___ day of _____, 20___.
________________________
Judge of the Municipal Court
Calera, Oklahoma
 
   (B)   It is the duty of the Police Chief, personally or through a duly-
constituted member of the police force of the municipality, or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
§ 32.10 BAIL OR BOND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon arrest or upon appearance without arrest in response to a
citation or summons, or at any time before trial, whether before or after
arraignment, the defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail
for his or her appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this
chapter or the Judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the
receipt of bail.
   (B)   In the case of arrests made at night or under other conditions of
emergency, or when the Judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the
Police Chief or his or her designated representative to accept a temporary cash
bond of not less than $10 nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided
by ordinance for the offense charged.
   (C)   A bail bond schedule may be adopted by the Judge and amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)
§ 32.11 BOND AND FINE SCHEDULE.
   A schedule of bonds and fees may be adopted and amended from time to time by
the Board of Trustees. A copy of bonds, fees or fines shall be kept in the
office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)
§ 32.12 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   (A)   Upon making his or her appearance before the Court, a defendant shall
be arraigned. The Judge or the Attorney of the municipality shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights,
including the right of a trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences
of conviction, and shall ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not
guilty.
   (B)   If the defendant pleads guilty, then the Court may proceed to judgment
and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition.
   (C)   If the plea is not guilty and the case is not for jury trial, then the
Court may proceed to try the case or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 6-127) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.13 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court other than the police
officers or peace officers shall be entitled to a sum per each day of
attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in
going to and returning from the place of attendance if their residence is
outside the limits of the municipality. However, no witness shall receive fees
or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the same
travel.
   (B)   (1)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the
Clerk a sum sufficient to cover the fees and mileage for one day of attendance
for each witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an
indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
         (a)   The names of not more than three witnesses;
         (b)   That the defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable
to provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
         (c)   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
         (d)   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her
proper defense.
      (2)   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-129)
§ 32.14 TRIAL AND JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may
obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   (C)   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter or by the
statutes relating to municipal criminal courts or the rules duly promulgated by
the State Supreme Court, the procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in
the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be made effective.
   (D)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, then
the Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   (E)   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
   (F)   If the judgment is of acquittal and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, then he or she must be discharged at once.
   (G)   (1)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he
or she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day of
imprisonment for each $5 of fine.
      (2)   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, then
the Municipal Court Judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon
the Court minutes and to be certified to the district court of the county
wherein the situs of government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the
district court’s judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a
district court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be available for
the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other judgment
creditor.
(Prior Code, § 6-128) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.15 BENCH WARRANTS.
   In those cases requiring a court appearance, the Court may accept the
forfeiture of the bond and apply it to the fine and costs or forfeit the bond
and issue a warrant for the arrest of the person failing to appear.
(Prior Code, § 6-131) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.16 FINES AND COSTS UPON CONVICTION.
   If a judgment of conviction is entered, then the Clerk of the Court shall
tax the costs to the defendant, which shall be the maximum allowed by state law
plus the fees and mileage of witnesses and jurors, but the total amount of the
fine may not exceed the amount set forth in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-134) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.17 PENALTY ASSESSMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CONVICTED. Any final adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of
guilty or nolo contendere or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence
or judgment.
   (B)   Fee assessed. Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a fine
of $10 or more or by incarceration, excluding parking and standing violations,
or any person forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense shall be
ordered by the Court to pay a separate penalty assessment, which shall be the
maximum allowed by state law, which shall be in addition to and not in
substitution for any and all fines and penalties otherwise provided for by law
for such offense. A defendant admitted to bail on an undertaking by a surety
may include the amount of the penalty assessment in the undertaking.
   (C)   Collection and deposit.
      (1)   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the Court shall collect the
penalty assessment and deposit it in an account created for that purpose. As an
administrative fee for handling funds collected as a penalty assessment, the
Court is authorized to retain 2% of such monies and may also retain all
interest accrued thereon prior to the due date for deposits as provided in this
division (C).
      (2)   The remainder of such monies shall be forwarded quarterly by the
Court Clerk to the State Treasury. Deposits shall be due July 15 for the
preceding quarter ending June 30, October 15 for the preceding quarter ending
September 30, January 15 for the preceding quarter ending December 31 and April
15 for the preceding quarter ending March 31.
(Prior Code, § 6-135) (Ord. 01-03, passed 2-6-2001) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.18 IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS.
   (A)   If, after conviction, a judgment of imprisonment is entered, then a
copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the Police Chief,
the County Sheriff or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   (B)   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on a plea of guilty
may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets,
avenues, alleys, parks, buildings or other public premises or properties. For
each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving one day of
imprisonment under his or her sentence.
   (C)   The Police Chief, subject to the direction of the governing body,
shall direct where such work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself or herself, or
by some person designated by him or her, shall oversee the work. If a guard is
necessary, then the Police Chief shall make provision therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6-133)
§ 32.19 SUSPENSION OF JUDGMENT OR COSTS; RECONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Suspension. Whenever any person shall be convicted in the Municipal
Court of violating a municipal ordinance, the Judge trying the cause, after
sentence, may suspend the judgment or costs, or both, and allow the person so
convicted to be released upon his or her own recognizance. Any person so
released shall be required to report at such times and to such person or
officer as the Judge shall direct.
   (B)   Warrant issuance. The Judge may cause a warrant to be issued for any
person so released if it shall be made to appear to the Judge that such person:
      (1)   Has been guilty of the violation of any law after his or her
release;
      (2)   Is engaging in activities for which such a warrant may be issued
pursuant to state law; or
      (3)   Is engaging in vicious habits.
   (C)   Reconfinement. Upon the issuance of such warrant by the Judge, the
person shall be delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to which he or
she was originally sentenced and shall serve out the full term for which he or
she was originally sentenced.
(Prior Code, § 6-130) Penalty, see §
32.99
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS
§ 32.30 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU CREATED.
   (A)   There may be established a Traffic Violations Bureau for the town. The
Judge may establish rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with the
ordinances of the municipality, for the Traffic Violations Bureau. The Traffic
Violations Bureau shall be staffed by Court personnel and be physically
separate and apart from the Police Department.
   (B)   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall accept fines which may be paid in
lieu of a court appearance for such traffic offenses as may be designated by
the Judge under the Court’s rules. The schedule of fines shall be adopted by
the governing body from time to time by motion or resolution. A copy shall be
kept in the Clerk’s office.
   (C)   Payment of any fine to the Traffic Violations Bureau shall be deemed a
final determination of the cause against the defendant. In no event shall any
such payment be introduced as evidence in any civil cause arising out of the
offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 6-124)
§ 32.31 TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; CITATION, CUSTODY AND ARREST PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes
constitute a violation of the traffic ordinances of the municipality, then in
lieu of arresting such a person, he or she may release the person on personal
recognizance in accordance with §
32.32 of this chapter or take his or her name, address and operator’s license
number, the registered license number of the motor vehicle involved and any
other pertinent and necessary information and may issue him or her in writing,
in a form prescribed by the Mayor or his or her duly-designated delegate, a
traffic citation embracing the above information and also stating the traffic
violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him or her to answer to the
charge against him or her at a time not later than the date specified in the
citation.
      (2)   The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then release the
person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer
as prescribed in the citation, then a complaint shall be filed and the case
shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of the municipality, then the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person in accordance with this chapter after obtaining
sufficient information as set out in division (A) above pending his or her
appearance on a day certain in court, as specified in the citation;
      (2)   Take the person into custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon
giving his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain as provided in
division (A) above, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, then the police officer shall
place on the vehicle at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in divisions
(A) or (B) above, with such variation as the circumstances require. The
operator of such vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under divisions (A)
or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-120) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.32 TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of the state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
      (1)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by the state, by another state jurisdiction within the United
States or by any party jurisdiction of the Nonresident Violator Compact, being
47 O.S. § 790;
      (2)   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      (3)   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      (4)   The violation does not constitute:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   Negligent homicide;
         (c)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         (d)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         (e)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         (f)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         (g)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in divisions
(A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(f) above;
         (h)   An overweight violation or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         (i)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   (B)   (1)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in division (A) above, then the arresting officer
shall:
         (a)   Designate the traffic charge;
         (b)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license
on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
         (c)   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         (d)   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         (e)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear
as provided for in the citation.
      (2)   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional, and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in the state or in the
nonresident’s home state, pursuant to the Nonresident Violator Compact.
   (C)   Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely
appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines
and costs, issuance of arrest warrants and requests for suspension of a
driver’s license shall be as required in state law, 22 O.S. §§ 1115.1 through
1115.5.
   (D)   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he or she is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the
copy of the citation furnished to him or her or on a legible copy thereof,
together with the date of the plea and his or her signature. The defendant
shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the
Court Clerk. The defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the
defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided for in
this subsection, then such plea shall be accepted by the Court and the amount
of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by ordinance for the violation
charged or as prescribed by the Court.
   (E)   (1)   If, pursuant to the provisions of division (D) above, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, then the Court may issue a warrant
for the arrest of the defendant, and the Municipal Court Clerk or District
Court Clerk, within 120 calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the State Department of Public Safety that:
         (a)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         (b)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         (c)   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine or made any other
arrangement with the Court to satisfy the citation; and
         (d)   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      (2)   The Court Clerk shall request the State Department of Public Safety
to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle
in the state or notify the defendant’s home state and request suspension of the
defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with the provisions of the
Nonresident Violator Compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the State Department of Public Safety.
      (3)   The Court Clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided for in this division (E) if, with respect to such charges:
         (a)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed or otherwise settled the case;
         (b)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         (c)   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         (d)   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date
the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   (F)   (1)   The Court Clerk shall maintain a record of each request for a
driver’s license suspension submitted to the State Department of Public Safety
pursuant to the provisions of this section. When the Court or Court Clerk
receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the
citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant or otherwise closes the
case, the Court Clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant if the
defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at
such other address as is furnished by the defendant.
      (2)   Additionally, the Court or Court Clerk shall notify the home
jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the citation if such jurisdiction is
a member of the Nonresident Violator Compact, and shall in all other cases
notify the State Department of Public Safety of the resolution of the case. The
form of proof and the procedures for notification shall be approved by the
State Department of Public Safety, provided, however, that the Court or Court
Clerk’s failure to furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided for in
this division (F) shall in no event create any civil liability upon the Court,
the Court Clerk, the state or any political subdivision thereof, any state
department or agency or any employee thereof, but duplicate proof shall be
furnished to the person entitled thereto upon request.
(Prior Code, § 6-121) Penalty, see §
32.99
MUNICIPAL JUDGES AND OFFICIALS
§ 32.45 JUDGE, QUALIFICATIONS AND TERM.
   (A)   Position and qualifications. There shall be one Judge of the Court. A
Judge may be an attorney licensed to practice law in the state or a resident of
the municipality of the age of 21 years or older possessed of good moral
character. A Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law
in other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with
his or her duties as Judge or arising out of facts which give rise to or are
connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the Court either pending
therein or which might become the subject of proceedings therein. He or she
must be a resident of the county or an adjacent county or maintain a law office
therein. He or she may serve as the Judge of other municipal courts if such
service may be accomplished consistently with his or her duties as Judge of
this Court and with the consent of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
   (B)   Term. The official term of the Judge shall be two years, expiring each
odd-numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall
serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 32.46 ALTERNATE JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS AND TERM.
   (A)   There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court an Alternate
Judge possessed of the same qualifications required of the Judge in this
chapter. His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same
manner as the Judge.
   (B)   He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case if the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 32.47 ACTING JUDGE.
   If at any time there is no Judge or Alternate Judge duly appointed and
qualified who is available to sit as judge, then the Mayor shall appoint some
person possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the Judge,
who shall preside as Acting Judge over the Court in the disposition of pending
matters until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 32.48 APPOINTING JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges and Alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the governing body at the next- to-last regularly-scheduled meeting
prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be
acted upon at the next regularly-scheduled meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment by a
majority vote of a quorum present and acting.
      (2)   A failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent
action thereon at a later regularly-scheduled meeting of the governing body
unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 32.49 SALARIES AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGES.
   (A)   A Judge, other than an Alternate Judge or Acting Judge, shall receive
a salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in the same
manner as the salaries of other officials of the municipality.
   (B)   An Alternate Judge or Acting Judge shall be paid an amount as set by
motion or resolution of the governing body; however, payments to an Acting or
Alternate Judge shall not exceed the salary set for a Judge in whose stead he
or she sits.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
§ 32.50 REMOVAL OF A JUDGE.
   (A)   (1)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing
body for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of the state for
the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified, written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal.
      (2)   Petitions may be signed and filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor; or
         (b)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of the municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
   (B)   (1)   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and
shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Judge at least ten days before the hearing.
      (2)   At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled:
         (a)   To representation by counsel;
         (b)   To present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against
him or her; and
         (c)   To have all evidence against him or her presented in open
hearing.
   (C)   (1)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the State
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings, 75 O.S. §§ 309
through 317, as amended, shall govern removal proceedings hereunder.
      (2)   A judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes
by a majority of all members of the governing body in favor of such removal.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
§ 32.51 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the Office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)
§ 32.52 DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   In prosecutions before the Court, no change of venue shall be allowed;
however, the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her
disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedures provided by law for courts of record. If a Judge is
disqualified, then the matter shall be heard by an Alternate Judge or Acting
Judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)
§ 32.53 COURT CLERK, DUTIES AND BOND.
   (A)   Duties. The Clerk-Treasurer, or a Deputy designated by him or her,
shall be the Clerk of the Court.
      (1)   He or she shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of
the Court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He or she shall
administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court. He or she shall
enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the Court. He
or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the Court as the Judge shall direct.
      (2)   He or she shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines,
deposits and sums of money payable to the Court. He or she shall pay to the
Treasurer of the municipality all money so received by him or her, except for
such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him or
her for special purposes.
      (3)   All money paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the General Fund
of the municipality or in such other funds as the governing body may direct,
and it shall be used in the operation of the municipal government in accordance
with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)
   (B)   Bond. The Clerk of the Court shall give bond in the form provided by
11 O.S. § 27-111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing
body for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)
§ 32.54 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY, DUTIES AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The Attorney for the municipality or his or her duly-designated assistant
shall be the prosecuting officer of the Court. He or she shall also prosecute
all alleged violations of the ordinances of the town. He or she shall be
authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal,
proceedings in error and review from the Court to any other court of the state,
and to represent the municipality in all proceedings arising out of matters in
the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)
§ 32.55 COURT MARSHAL.
   All writs or processes of the Court shall be directed, in his or her
official title, to the Police Chief of the municipality, who shall be the
principal officer of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-113)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   As per this chapter, in those cases in which a person has given his or
her written promise to appear and fails to do so, that person, upon conviction
of his or her willful failure to appear, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. A bench warrant may be issued for his or her arrest for
his or her failure to appear. Such conviction for failure to appear shall not
affect the underlying offense for which the person failed to appear.
(Prior Code, § 6-132)
CHAPTER 33: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
33.001   Police Department created; Police Chief to head
   
33.002   Duties of Police Department
   
33.003   Police officers, appointment and duties
   
33.004   Unclaimed property delivered to Police Chief; record required
   
33.005   Disposition of unclaimed property
   
33.006   Unclaimed property returned to finder upon request
   
33.007   Property recovery by owner after sale
Police Reserve Force
   
33.020   Police Reserve Force created; Police Chief to head
   
33.021   Authority of Police Chief to increase, diminish size of Force
   
33.022   Duties of Police Reserve Force
   
33.023   Qualifications and appointment of members
   
33.024   Powers and authority of members
   
33.025   Identification card, insignia carried by members
   
33.026   Uniforms, badges prescribed by Police Chief
   
33.027   Commission expiration and renewal
   
33.028   Termination or resignation of membership
   
33.029   Dismissal for rule and regulation violations
Fire Department
   
33.040   Name and purpose
   
33.041   Fire Department establishment and duties; Fire Chief to head
   
33.042   Fire Chief, election and duties
   
33.043   Deputy Chief, election and duties
   
33.044   Company officers
   
33.045   Secretary-Treasurer
   
33.046   Department elections
   
33.047   Purchasing authority
   
33.048   Probationary firefighters, qualifications and appointment
   
33.049   Volunteer firefighters, duties and requirements
   
33.050   Drivers of Department vehicles, qualifications and requirements
   
33.051   Training requirements
   
33.052   Department rules and regulations
   
33.053   Disciplinary actions
   
33.054   Use of fire equipment; inventory and repair
   
33.055   Contracts authorized outside of town limits
   
33.056   Contract terms, fees for service
   
33.057   Fire unions
   
33.058   Authority to answer calls outside of town limits
   
33.059   Firefighters considered serving in regular line of duty
   
33.060   Department considered agent of state
Rates for Fire Department Services
   
33.075   Overview
   
33.076   Motor vehicle incidents
   
33.077   Hazmat incidents
   
33.078   False alarm billing rates
   
33.079   Fire investigations
   
33.080   Fires
   
33.081   Illegal fires
   
33.082   Water incidents
   
33.083   Back country or special rescue
   
33.084   Chief response
   
33.085   Miscellaneous or additional time on scene
   
33.086   Mitigation rate notes
   
33.087   Late fees
Department of Civil Emergency Management
   
33.100   Purpose
   
33.101   Department established; composition
   
33.102   Duties of Director
   
33.103   Powers of Director in emergencies
   
33.104   Compensation of members
 
   
33.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   House number display requirements, see
Ch. 151
   Hydrants, standpipes and sprinklers, see
Ch. 151
   Offenses against public authority, see
Ch. 135
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.001 POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED; POLICE CHIEF TO HEAD.
   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of
Police, or Police Chief, appointed by the Town Board of Trustees and removable
by the Board. The Police Chief is an officer of the town and has supervision
and control of the Police Department. All police officers are officers of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 13-301)
Statutory reference:
   Police department and duties, see 11 O.S. §§ 34-101 et seq.
§ 33.002 DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on view or
on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to its
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to it; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law
and to turn them over to the proper authorities and in all respects to perform
all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The Police Department
has charge of and operates the town’s jail.
(Prior Code, § 13-302)
§ 33.003 POLICE OFFICERS, APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   Police officers shall be appointed subject to the approval of the Town Board
of Trustees. Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be required of
them by the Police Chief, town ordinances, federal, state and county
regulations and any other actions required in the maintenance of good order and
public peace.
(Prior Code, § 13-303)
§ 33.004 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY DELIVERED TO POLICE CHIEF; RECORD REQUIRED.
   (A)   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police
officer which has been found, stolen or taken off of the person or out of the
possession of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a
criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto,
shall be delivered into the charge of the Police Chief by the officer securing
possession thereof.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that
purpose, make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found. The record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser and the amount for which it was sold.
(Prior Code, § 13-501)
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverages seized in violation of law, see 37A O.S. § 3
   Disposal of liquor and gambling equipment seized by police, officers, see 22
O.S. §§ 1261 et seq.
   Disposal of stolen or embezzled property coming into hands of police
officers, see 22 O.S. §§ 1321 et seq.
   Disposition of seasonal property by Police Chief, procedures, application to
destroy, see 11 O.S. § 34-104
   Finders of lost goods, see 15 O.S. §§ 511 et seq.
   Uniform Unclaimed Property Disposition Act, see 60 O.S. § 655
§ 33.005 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remains unclaimed
in the possession of the Police Chief, or the ownership of which is not to him
or her satisfactorily established, for a period of more than 30 days shall be
sold or disposed of in the manner required by law, except for such personal
property as in the opinion of the Town Manager can be more advantageously used
by some department or office of the town government.
(Prior Code, § 13-502)
§ 33.006 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY RETURNED TO FINDER UPON REQUEST.
   (A)   If not claimed or identified within 30 days, any personal property
found by a person other than a public official or employee which is delivered
to any police officer for identification shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, be returned to the finder if requested by him or her, and a record
of such disposal made thereof.
   (B)   If the finder does not request return of the property to him or her
within such additional ten days, then the Police Chief shall sell the property
in the manner required by law as if it had been found by a public official or
employee, or on instruction by the Town Manager, deliver it to some department
or office of the town government for its use.
(Prior Code, § 13-503)
§ 33.007 PROPERTY RECOVERY BY OWNER AFTER SALE.
   If any property is sold as herein provided and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of the same from the purchaser, then the amount paid
therefor shall be returned to the purchaser upon verified claim being submitted
and approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13-504)
POLICE RESERVE FORCE
§ 33.020 POLICE RESERVE FORCE CREATED; POLICE CHIEF TO HEAD.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   An auxiliary police force, to be known as the Police Reserve, is
hereby established.
      (2)   It shall be composed of personnel who have volunteered to join the
organization and whose application for membership has been accepted, and who
have complied with all of the rules, regulations and orders provided for the
conduct and control of the members thereof.
      (3)   The number of members is to be approved by the Police Chief and the
Town Board members.
(Prior Code, § 13-310)
   (B)   Police Chief to head. The members of the Police Reserve shall be under
the authority, control and command of the Police Chief and subject to all of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-311)
§ 33.021 AUTHORITY OF POLICE CHIEF TO INCREASE, DIMINISH SIZE OF FORCE.
   The Police Chief may by order diminish or expand the membership of the
Police Reserve Force as emergency may require within the limits hereinbefore
established.
(Prior Code, § 13-318)
§ 33.022 DUTIES OF POLICE RESERVE FORCE.
   (A)   The duties of the Police Reserve Force, subject at all times to the
direction, supervision and control of the Police Chief, shall be to assist the
regular members of the Police Department of the town in the enforcement of laws
and the maintenance of peace and order during periods of emergency designated
by the Police Chief.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief may by order establish rules and regulations to govern
the Police Reserve Force, to fix the specific duties of its members and to
provide for the maintenance of discipline. He or she may change such orders
from time to time, and he or she may command members of the Police Reserve
Force to obey the instructions of regular police officers in carrying out their
duties.
      (2)   The Chief may prescribe other duties than those mentioned herein
which are not inconsistent with the provisions hereof to be performed by the
Police Reserve Force.
(Prior Code, § 13-314)
§ 33.023 QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Appointment. Members of the Police Reserve shall be appointed from a
list of eligibles compiled as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 13-312)
   (B)   Qualifications, application and oath.
      (1)   A list of eligibles shall be accompanied by a complete set of
fingerprints or supplemented immediately by fingerprinting by the police
division, which fingerprints shall be checked by the Identification Bureau to
ascertain any criminal record of such persons.
      (2)   The applicants shall state the residence of the applicant. Each
applicant shall be an actual resident of the county and shall furnish
satisfactory proof of good character, temperate habits, freedom from
communicable diseases and physical ability to perform the duties of the
position for which he or she seeks appointment. The application shall be on the
form prescribed by the Police Chief and approved by the Police Chief.
      (3)   All names upon a list of eligibles shall subscribe to an oath that
he or she will observe and obey the Constitution of the United States, the
State Constitution and the laws of the nation, the state and the town, and that
he or she will carry out the duties of a member of the Police Reserve Force in
the town to the best of his or her ability.
      (4)   A reserve municipal police officer shall serve on a part-time basis
and shall perform his or her duties only while on authorized duty and for not
more than 25 hours per calendar week. Such reserve municipal police officers
must meet the minimum requirements of 70 O.S. § 3311.
(Prior Code, § 13-313)
§ 33.024 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Members of the Police Reserve Force, while on duty, shall carry
firearms only on the express, written order of the Police Chief.
   (B)   No member of the Police Reserve Force shall break into or otherwise
forcefully enter upon any private property or enter the dwelling or habitation
of another person without the consent of the owner or occupant, except for when
immediately accompanied by a regular member of the Police Department of the
town who then and there requests his or her aid in the enforcement of the law.
   (C)   A member of the Police Reserve Force shall have the following powers
of arrest and none other:
      (1)   He or she may arrest for a public offense committed in his or her
presence;
      (2)   He or she may arrest a person who in fact committed a felony,
although not in his or her presence;
      (3)   When a felony has in fact been committed, he or she may make an
arrest when he or she has reasonable cause for believing the person arrested to
have committed it; and
      (4)   He or she may go lend physical aid to any regular member of the
Police Department in making any lawful arrest when authorized by the Police
Chief or requested by any regular member of the Police Department of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-319)
§ 33.025 IDENTIFICATION CARD, INSIGNIA CARRIED BY MEMBERS.
   An identification card and such other insignia or evidence of identity as
the Chief may prescribe shall be issued to each member, who must carry the card
and other identification at all times while on duty. Each member shall
surrender the card and other identification upon the termination of his or her
membership.
(Prior Code, § 13-315)
§ 33.026 UNIFORMS, BADGES PRESCRIBED BY POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief shall prescribe the uniform and badges for the members of
the Police Reserve Force and direct the manner in which the same shall be worn.
(Prior Code, § 13-322)
§ 33.027 COMMISSION EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Expiration and renewals. All commissions shall expire automatically at
midnight on December 31 in any year. A renewal of the commission for any next-
ensuing year may be had by the filing of an application by any holder of any
commission.
   (B)   Renewal process. The application shall consist of a post card properly
filled out by the applicant giving his or her full name and address and giving
the number of his or her existing commission. This application shall be filed
with the Police Chief. If such application for renewal is not presented on or
before January 31 of the year for which renewal is sought, then anyone desiring
a commission as a member of the Police Reserve shall make application as in the
first instance where an applicant did not hold a commission.
(Prior Code, § 13-316)
§ 33.028 TERMINATION OR RESIGNATION OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The membership of any person may be terminated by the Police Chief at
any time for any cause deemed sufficient by the Police Chief.
   (B)   Any member may resign from the Police Reserve Force at any time, but
it shall be the duty to notify the Chief of his or her resignation.
(Prior Code, § 13-317)
§ 33.029 DISMISSAL FOR RULE AND REGULATION VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the penalties provided by law, any violation of law under
color of performance of his or her duties as a member of the Police Reserve
Force and any breach of the rules and regulations established by the Police
Chief shall subject any member to summary expulsion, and the fact thereof may
be published at the order of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 13-320)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.040 NAME AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Name. This Department, located in the town, shall be known as the
Calera Fire-Rescue. The Department will also be known as CFR.
(Prior Code, § 13-200)
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the CFR shall be the preservation and
protection of life and property from and during such fires and emergencies as
may occur in the area protected.
(Prior Code, § 13-201)
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.041 FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES; FIRE CHIEF TO HEAD.
   (A)   Fire Chief to head. There shall be a Fire Department, the head of
which shall be the Chief of the Fire Department, or Fire Chief.
   (B)   Department duties. It is the duty of the Fire Department, among
others, to extinguish fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to
resuscitate, and to administer first aid to, persons injured in or about
burning structures, or elsewhere in the case of an emergency; to promote fire
prevention and, unless otherwise provided, to enforce all ordinances relating
to fires, fire prevention and the safety of persons from fire in a public area
or private building.
   (C)   Volunteer firefighters.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER. One who is enrolled as a member of the Fire
Department of the town and who serves in that capacity without receiving a
regular salary.
      (2)   Membership. The size of the Volunteer Fire Department of the town
shall be composed of not less than 15 and not more than 30 members.
(Prior Code, § 13-202) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.042 FIRE CHIEF, ELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief shall be the administrative head of the Department, subject
to the laws of the state, the ordinances of the town and the rules and
regulations adopted in this subchapter. The Fire Chief shall be elected
annually from among the members of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Chief shall have the following powers and duties, and he or she
may assign duties to other members of the Department.
      (1)   The Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members and the
performance of all other duties imposed on him or her. He or she shall have
supervision and control of the Fire Department, subject to the supervision and
control of the Town Board.
      (2)   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at
least twice a year.
      (3)   The Chief may maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
      (4)   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct
the officers and members in the performance of their duties.
      (5)   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
      (6)   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its causes, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson,
shall notify the proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible
evidence for future use in the case.
      (7)   The Chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
town at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice on persons for any violations which may be found.
      (8)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
Department, and he or she shall make reports to the Town Board as it may
require. The Chief shall keep the Board of Trustees informed regarding the Fire
Department and its needs.
      (9)   The Fire Chief will be trained to the level of NIMS 300 and 400
within one year of being elected.
(Prior Code, § 13-203) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.043 DEPUTY CHIEF, ELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In the absence of the Chief, the Deputy Chief shall command the Fire
Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the Chief. The Deputy Chief shall be elected
annually from among the members of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Deputy Chief will be trained to the level of NIMS 300 and 400
within one year of being elected.
(Prior Code, § 13-204) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.044 COMPANY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Company officers shall be selected by the Chief based upon the
following criteria:
      (1)   Knowledge of firefighting;
      (2)   Leadership ability; and
      (3)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
   (B)   Captains will be trained to the level of NIMS 300 and 400 within one
year of being promoted.
(Prior Code, § 13-205) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.045 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Secretary-Treasurer shall be elected annually from among the
members of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Secretary-Treasurer’s duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due to the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 13-206) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.046 DEPARTMENT ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Calera Fire-Rescue will hold elections of officers at the regularly-
scheduled meeting in the month of December.
   (B)   All nominations for the elections will be made during the November
meeting.
   (C)   All elected positions will take office on January 1.
   (D)   Elected officers will hold office from January 1 to December 31 of
each calendar year.
   (E)   There are no term limits.
   (F)   No member can hold two elected positions.
   (G)   The positions of Fire Chief, Deputy Chief, Fire Marshal and Secretary-
Treasurer will be elected annually.
   (H)   Any vacancy before the election will be filled by an appointment from
the Fire Chief until the next regular or special election is scheduled. The
appointment will be known officially as “acting” and the position, such as
“Acting Fire Marshal.”
   (I)   (1)   In the event of a tie, a second ballot will be cast.
      (2)   In the event of a second tie, the currently-elected and appointed
officers will vote. In the event of a second tie for the position of Fire
Chief, the third vote will go before the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 13-219) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.047 PURCHASING AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Chief and Deputy Chief are the authorized purchasers of the Calera
Fire-Rescue.
   (A)   Town duties.
      (1)   The Fire Chief will present an annual budget to the Town Board
outlining any planned capital improvement purchases. The Fire Department will
bid all purchases according to the current guidelines set by the town.
      (2)   The Fire Chief or Deputy Chief cannot spend over $5,000 without
presenting to the Fire Department membership and receiving a majority vote of
members present and with quorum.
   (B)   County Fire Tax.
      (1)   The Fire Chief and Deputy Chief will be the purchasing authority
for the Calera Fire- Rescue concerning the County Fire Tax.
      (2)   Two of the captains will be the receiving authority for the Calera
Fire-Rescue concerning the County Fire Tax.
(Prior Code, § 13-221) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.048 PROBATIONARY FIREFIGHTERS, QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   All probationary firefighters shall be appointed by the Chief and
shall be on probation for one year after their appointment. Probationary
firefighters will be required to complete a minimum training standard in that
one year. Failure to complete the training will result in failure to complete
the probationary period. Upon completion of their probationary period, new
members must be approved by the majority of the members of the Fire Department.
   (B)   A list of the members shall be presented to the Board of Trustees for
their records. These members must:
      (1)   Be 18 years of age;
      (2)   Submit to a background check;
      (3)   Attend eight regular monthly meetings during their probationary
period;
      (4)   Attend all trainings offered by the Department, unless excused by
the Chief or Deputy Chief; and
      (5)   All applicants are subject to a drug screening.
   (C)   Anyone who has quit the Calera Fire-Rescue on good terms is eligible
to be rehired.
   (D)   Anyone who has been dropped due to disciplinary action or pending
disciplinary action is not eligible for rehire.
(Prior Code, § 13-207) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.049 VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS, DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All Volunteer Fire Department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies, to include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   Fire;
      (2)   Rescue;
      (3)   Medical;
      (4)   Human-made disasters;
      (5)   Natural disasters; or
      (6)   Any incident in which the Fire Department may have the equipment,
training or knowledge to mitigate the incident.
   (B)   The Department will have at least one regularly-scheduled meeting a
month. CFR will meet on the second Monday of every month at 6:00 p.m.
   (C)   A member is required to be present at six regular meetings and at as
many special and committee meetings as possible. Failure to do so could result
in being dropped from the Fire Department rolls.
   (D)   All members are required to become a Level 3 (intermediate) state
firefighter.
   (E)   All firefighters will live in the district or within a four-mile
radius of Town Hall.
   (F)   Any member leaving the town for an extended period of time is required
to notify the Chief, the Deputy Chief or his or her company officer.
   (G)   All members will make any call received by the CFR.
   (H)   When in the area protected by the Department and available for duty,
it is the responsibility of all active members of the Department to respond to
all alarms of fire or emergency which are transmitted to the Department. All
members must use due diligence, caution and sound judgment in responding to the
scene of an emergency.
   (I)   Any member unable to make calls or to make a call may be excused by
the Chief, the Deputy Chief or his or her company officer.
   (J)   Members responding to incidents in their private vehicles will do so
with due regard and follow all state traffic laws.
   (K)   Equipment issued to members is the exclusive property of the
Department and shall be treated with utmost care while in the members’
possession. This equipment is only to be utilized by members in support of the
Department’s duties and activities.
   (L)   (1)   An annual review of all of a firefighter’s activities will be
performed on each firefighter by his or her company officer and then the Chief
and Deputy.
      (2)   This review is to see if the firefighter is meeting the terms and
conditions of the bylaws and if he or she will remain a member of Calera Fire-
Rescue.
(Prior Code, § 13-208) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.050 DRIVERS OF DEPARTMENT VEHICLES, QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All drivers or operators of any Department vehicle must be qualified
to fully operate said vehicle and have a valid Oklahoma operator’s license. A
member must be qualified by the training officer and approved by the Fire Chief
prior to driving any Department vehicle. Drivers must adhere to all state laws,
driver requirements, qualifications and responsibilities contained within the
SOGs (standard operational guidelines) and must meet all requirements of the
Department’s insurance carrier.
   (B)   A list of qualified drivers shall be posted and maintained by the Fire
Chief in a conspicuous place in all firehouses.
(Prior Code, § 13-209) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.051 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Members.
      (1)   All members will become a Level 3 (intermediate level) firefighter
in the state within three years of their probationary status.
      (2)   All members will attend training presented for the benefit of the
member or the Department.
      (3)   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members
of the Department will be dropped.
      (4)   All firefighters are required to have the following training: NIMS
100, 200, 700 and 800 (probationary year).
   (B)   Probationary firefighters. All probationary firefighters will complete
the Department’s probationary-year fire training plan.
(Prior Code, § 13-210) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.052 DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Department will draft a copy of SOGs (standard operational
guidelines) and be approved by the Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Department will update SOGs every two years.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and
change regulations relating to the Fire Department and its organization,
operations and compensation.
(Prior Code, § 13-212) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.053 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Any disciplinary action will be written down and presented to the
member by certified mail with return receipt.
   (B)   Any member of the Fire Department may be dropped from the rolls for
any of the following:
      (1)   Offenses.
         (a)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         (b)   Any act of insubordination;
         (c)   Neglect of duty;
         (d)   Any violation of the rules and regulations of the Fire
Department; or
         (e)   Conviction of a felony.
            1.   Any firefighter or firefighters charged with a felony will be
automatically placed on administrative leave and must turn in his, her or their
key and pager to the Chief.
            2.   a.   With any charge or charges to a firefighter or
firefighters which involve alcohol, such firefighter or firefighters will be
placed on administrative leave and must turn in his, her or their key and pager
to the Chief. A board of two officers and three firefighters will review the
incident and interview the member or members involved.
               b.   The board will recommend to the Chief if the member or
members are to be allowed to stay on in the Department or will be dismissed
from the Department. Any second offense involving alcohol, no matter the
conviction, will result in an automatic dismissal from the Fire Department.
            3.   With any charge or charges to a firefighter or firefighters
which involve illegal drugs, such firefighter or firefighters will be placed on
administrative leave and must turn in his, her or their key and pager to the
Chief. Any conviction, whether misdemeanor or felony, involving illegal drugs
will result in an automatic dismissal from the Fire Department.
      (2)   Vote. By a two-thirds vote of all of the members of the Department;
all votes must be by secret ballot at a regular or special meeting called by
the Chief or Deputy Chief.
   (C)   All members who are dropped from the Fire Department rolls have 15
days to return all issued equipment.
(Prior Code, § 13-211) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.054 USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR.
   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away or
conceal any article used in any way by the Department. No person shall enter
any place where a fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the Department unless accompanied by, or having the special
permission of, the Chief or Deputy Chief.
(Prior Code, § 13-213) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.055 CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED OUTSIDE OF TOWN LIMITS.
   The town is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside of the
corporate limits of the town, and to contract to provide fire protection
jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
(Prior Code, § 13-214) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.056 CONTRACT TERMS, FEES FOR SERVICE.
   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner, firm,
private corporation or association for outside aid or for mutual aid for fire
protection shall provide for payment to the town by the owner, firm, private
corporation or association or political subdivision for such fire apparatus and
personnel at the rate per call as set by the Town Board. All fire runs inside
the limits will go into the Fire Department funds. All monies collected must be
turned in to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 13-215) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.057 FIRE UNIONS.
   Section 33.056 of this chapter will only take effect if the Fire Department
becomes a combination or career department with paid firefighters and said
firefighters form a union.
   (A)   The town does not refuse the right to form a fire union.
   (B)   The town will not enter into collective bargaining with a fire union
over matters of fire operations and the forming of rules and regulations or
standard operating guidelines, unless such pertain to health and safety.
   (C)   The town will enter into collective bargaining with a fire union
concerning salaries, benefits and firefighter safety. The Fire Chief will
retain operational control of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-220) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.058 AUTHORITY TO ANSWER CALLS OUTSIDE OF TOWN LIMITS.
   The Fire Department of the town is hereby authorized and directed to answer
all calls outside of the corporate limits of the town at the discretion of the
Fire Chief. The Fire Department may not answer such calls outside of the
corporate limits if the Fire Chief feels that the town would be left uncovered.
(Prior Code, § 13-216) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.059 FIREFIGHTERS CONSIDERED SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY.
   All volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department of the town attending and
serving at any incident, training or fire prevention task outside of the
corporate limits of the town, as herein provided, shall be considered as
serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were serving within
the corporate limits of the town. The firefighters shall be entitled to all of
the benefits of any firefighters pension and relief fund in the same manner as
if the firefighting, training or fire prevention work were being done within
the corporate limits of the town. Any compensation shall be as provided by the
Board of Trustees by ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 13-217) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 33.060 DEPARTMENT CONSIDERED AGENT OF STATE.
   The Fire Department of the town, when answering any fire alarm or call or
performing any fire prevention services outside of the corporate limits of the
town, shall be considered as an agent of the state and acting solely and alone
in a governmental capacity, and the municipality shall not be liable in damages
for any act of commission, omission or negligence while answering or returning
from any fire or reported fire, or while doing any fire prevention work under
and by virtue of §§
33.055,
33.056 and
33.058 through
33.060 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-218) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013)
RATES FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES
§ 33.075 OVERVIEW.
   (A)   Rates generally. The Fire Department shall initiate mitigation rates
for the delivery of emergency and nonemergency services by the Fire Department
for personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of emergency and
nonemergency incidents as listed in §§
33.076 through
33.087 of this chapter.
      (1)   Mitigation rates shall be based on the actual costs of the services
and that which is usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) as shown in §§
33.076 through
33.087 of this chapter, which may include any services, personnel, supplies and
equipment and with baselines established by addendum to this subchapter.
      (2)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party or parties through
their insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party or
parties will be billed directly.
      (3)   The Fire Department may make rules or regulations, and from time to
time may amend, revoke or add rules and regulations, not consistent with this
subchapter as it may deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for
these mitigation rates or the collection thereof.
      (4)   The mitigation rates listed in §§
33.076 through
33.087 of this chapter will increase by 5.9% annually or based on the annual
percentage increase in the consumer price index (CPI), as developed by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor, whichever is more.
Rate adjustments will occur on July 1 of every year beginning in the year 2023
to keep the Fire Department’s cost recovery program in conformity with
increasing operating expenses.
   (B)   Mitigation rates based on per hour. The mitigation rates in §§
33.076 through
33.087 of this chapter are average “billing levels” and are typical for the
incident responses listed; however, when a claim is submitted, it will be
itemized and based on the actual services provided. These rates are based on
actual costs using amortized schedules for apparatus (including useful life,
equipment, repairs and maintenance). Labor rates include an average
department’s actual burdened labor costs and not just a firefighter’s wage.
These include wages, retirement, benefits, workers’ compensation and the like.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.076 MOTOR VEHICLE INCIDENTS.
   (A)   Level 1.
      (1)   Cost: $546.
      (2)   Details: Provides hazardous materials assessment and scene
stabilization. This is the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost
every time the Fire Department responds to an accident or incident.
   (B)   Level 2.
      (1)   Cost: $623.
      (2)   Details: Includes Level 1 services as well as cleanup and materials
used (sorbents) for hazardous fluid cleanup and disposal. This level is billed
at if the Fire Department has to clean up any gasoline or other automotive
fluids which are spilled as a result of the accident or incident.
   (C)   Level 3, car fire.
      (1)   Cost: $760.
      (2)   Details: Provides scene safety, fire suppression, breathing air,
rescue tools, hand tools, hose, tip use, foam, structure protection and the
cleanup of gasoline or other automotive fluids which are spilled as a result of
the accident or incident.
   (D)   Add-on service, extrication.
      (1)   Cost: $1,641.
      (2)   Details: Includes heavy rescue tools (ropes, air bags, cribbing and
the like). This charge will be added if the Fire Department has to free or
remove anyone from the vehicle or vehicles using any equipment. This level is
not billed at if the patient is simply unconscious and the Fire Department is
able to open the door to access the patient. This level is to be billed only if
equipment is deployed.
   (E)   Add-on service, creating a landing zone.
      (1)   Cost: $502.
      (2)   Details: Includes Air Care (multi-engine company response, mutual
aid and helicopter). This level is billed at any time a helicopter is utilized
to transport the patient or patients.
   (F)   Add-on service, itemized response. The option to bill each incident as
an independent event with custom mitigation rates for each incident using
itemized rates deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents
will be billed and itemized per apparatus and per personnel, plus products and
equipment used.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.077 HAZMAT INCIDENTS.
   (A)   Level 1, basic response.
      (1)   Cost: $881.
      (2)   Details: Claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, setup and command.
   (B)   Level 2, intermediate response.
      (1)   Cost: $3,146.
      (2)   Details: Claim will include Level 1 service as well as hazmat
certified team and appropriate equipment, Level A or B suit donning, breathing
air and detection equipment. Set-up and removal of decon center.
   (C)   Level 3, advanced response.
      (1)   Cost: $7,426.
      (2)   Details: Claim will include Level 2 service as well as robot
deployment. Setup and removal of decon center, detection equipment, recovery
and identification of material. Disposal and environment clean up. Includes
above in addition to any disposal rates of material and contaminated equipment
and material used at the scene. Includes three hours of on-scene time.
   (D)   Additional time on scene, all levels of service. Each additional hour
will be billed at $356 per hazmat team.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.078 FALSE ALARM BILLING RATES.
   (A)   The first and second false alarms within 12 months in a calendar year
are free of charge.
   (B)   The third through fifth false alarms in a 12-month calendar year is
billed at $100 per incident.
   (C)   For six or more false alarms in a 12-month calendar year is billed at
$500 per incident.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.079 FIRE INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Fire investigation team: $346 per hour.
   (B)   Includes:
      (1)   Scene safety;
      (2)   Investigation;
      (3)   Source identification;
      (4)   K-9/arson dog unit;
      (5)   Identification equipment;
      (6)   Mobile detection unit; and
      (7)   Fire report.
   (C)   The claim begins when the fire investigator responds to the incident,
and is billed for logged time only.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.080 FIRES.
   (A)   Assignment:
      (1)   Per engine per hour: $503; and
      (2)   Per truck per hour: $629.
   (B)   Includes:
      (1)   Scene safety;
      (2)   Investigation; and
      (3)   Fire and hazard control.
   (C)   This is the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost every time
the Fire Department responds to an incident.
   (D)   A Fire Department has the option to bill each fire as an independent
event with custom mitigation rates.
   (E)   Itemized, per person, at various pay levels and for itemized products
used.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.081 ILLEGAL FIRES.
   (A)   Assignment:
      (1)   Engine per hour: $503; and
      (2)   Per truck per hour: $629.
   (B)   (1)   When a fire is started by any person or persons which requires a
Fire Department response during a time or season when fires are regulated or
controlled by local or state rules, provisions or ordinances because of
pollution or fire-danger concerns, such person or persons will be liable for
the Fire Department response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses
incurred by the Fire Department to respond and contain the fire.
      (2)   Similarly, if a fire is started where permits are required for such
a fire and the permit was not obtained, and the Fire Department is required to
respond to contain the fire, the responsible party or parties will be liable
for the response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the
Fire Department.
   (C)   The actual expenses will include direct labor, equipment costs and any
other costs which can be reasonably allocated to the cost of the response.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.082 WATER INCIDENTS.
   (A)   Level 1, basic response.
      (1)   Cost: Billed at $503, plus $62 per hour per rescue person.
      (2)   Details: Claim will include engine response, first-responder
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, first-responder setup and
command, scene safety and investigation (including possible patient contact and
hazard control). This is the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost
every time the Fire Department responds to a water incident.
   (B)   Level 2, intermediate response.
      (1)   Cost: Billed at $1,006, plus $62 per hour per rescue person.
      (2)   Details: Includes Level 1 services as well as cleanup and material
used (sorbents), minor hazardous cleanup and disposal. This level is billed at
if the Fire Department has to clean up small amounts of gasoline or other
fluids which are spilled as a result of the incident.
   (C)   Level 3, advanced response.
      (1)   Cost: Billed at $2,489, plus $62 per hour per rescue person, plus
$126 per hour per hazmat team member.
      (2)   Details: Includes Levels 1 and 2 services as well as DART
activation, donning breathing apparatus and detection equipment, as well as the
setup and removal of a decon center, detection equipment, the recovery and
identification of materials and disposal and environment cleanup. Includes the
above in addition to any disposal rates of materials and contaminated equipment
and materials used at the scene.
   (D)   Level 4, itemized response. This level is the option to bill each
incident as an independent event with custom mitigation rates for each incident
using itemized rates deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These
incidents will be billed and itemized per trained rescue person, plus rescue
products used.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.083 BACK COUNTRY OR SPECIAL RESCUE.
   (A)   Cost:
      (1)   Minimum billing $503 for the first response vehicle, plus $62 per
hour per rescue person; and
      (2)   Additional rates of $503 per hour per response vehicle, plus $62
per hour per rescue person.
   (B)   Itemized response: Each incident will be billed with custom mitigation
rates deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be
billed and itemized per apparatus per hour and per trained rescue person per
hour, plus rescue products used.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.084 CHIEF RESPONSE.
   (A)   Cost: Billed at $315 per hour.
   (B)   Details: Includes the setup of command and providing direction of the
incident. This could include operations, safety and administration of the
incident.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.085 MISCELLANEOUS OR ADDITIONAL TIME ON SCENE.
   (A)   Engine billed at $503 per hour;
   (B)   Truck billed at $629 per hour; and
   (C)   Miscellaneous equipment billed at $378.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.086 MITIGATION RATE NOTES.
   (A)   The mitigation rates in §§
33.076 through
33.085 of this chapter are average “billing levels” and are typical for the
incident responses listed; however, when a claim is submitted, it may be
itemized and based on the actual services provided.
   (B)   These average mitigation rates were determined by itemizing the costs
for a typical run from the time a fire apparatus leaves the station until it
returns to the station and are based on the actual costs, using amortized
schedules for apparatus, including useful life, equipment, repairs and
maintenance, and labor rates (an average department’s “actual personnel
expense” and not just a firefighter’s basic wage). The actual personnel expense
includes costs such as wages, retirement, benefits, workers’ compensation,
insurance and the like.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2022-05, passed 4-14-2022)
§ 33.087 LATE FEES.
   If an invoice is not paid within 90 days, then a late charge of 10% of the
invoice, as well as 1.5% per month, as well as the actual cost of the
collections, will be accessed to the responsible party or parties.
(Prior Code, § 13-222) (Ord. 2014-07, passed 11-13-2014)
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 33.100 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A civil emergency management organization is created for the town to
carry out preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the town.
   (B)   The duties of the civil emergency management organization are the
protection of the lives and health of the citizens and of property and property
rights, both private and public, and the performance of all functions necessary
and incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-401)
Statutory reference:
   Local civil defense organizations, see 63 O.S. § 683.11
§ 33.101 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government a
Department of Civil Emergency Management, which shall consist of:
   (A)   A Director of Civil Emergency Management, who shall be appointed and
may be removed with or without cause by the Board of Trustees of the town; and
   (B)   A Civil Emergency Management Advisory Committee. This Committee shall
consist of the Mayor, as chairperson, and five members appointed by the Mayor
and serving at his or her pleasure. The Committee shall select from its members
a Vice Chairperson and a Secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed
by the Mayor, and its function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as
needed or requested by the Mayor or the Director of Civil Emergency Management.
(Prior Code, § 13-402)
§ 33.102 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director of Civil Emergency Management shall be the executive head
of the Department of Civil Emergency Management and shall be responsible for
carrying out the civil emergency management program of the town. He or she
shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in
the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Civil Emergency Management, as
soon as practicable after his or her appointment, to perfect an organization to
carry out the purposes set forth in this subchapter, and he or she shall have
all necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies and to
appoint and designate the chairperson or chief officer of such bodies as may be
necessary to perfect such an organization. He or she shall have a further duty
and responsibility to cooperate with all civil defense agencies of other
governmental units, including of the state and the federal government. The
Director of Civil Emergency Management is further authorized to formulate
written plans, gather information and keep written record thereof to govern the
functions of the civil emergency management organization.
(Prior Code, § 13-403)
§ 33.103 POWERS OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or an emergency resulting
from natural causes, the Director of Civil Emergency Management, after due
authorization from the Board of Trustees of the town, shall have the power and
authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to civil emergency
management, and if necessary, to take control of transportation,
communications, public utilities and stocks of fuel, food, clothing and
medicine for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He or she shall
cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental agencies or
civil emergency management organizations. If required by the Board of Trustees,
the Director shall have control over any and all funds allocated from any
source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the town.
   (B)   The Director of Civil Emergency Management and other members of the
civil emergency management organization created by him or her shall have the
power and authority to enforce the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
town during the period of emergency, and shall at such time have the further
power to make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 13-404)
§ 33.104 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the civil emergency management organization created in this
subchapter shall serve without compensation. The town shall not be liable for
any personal or bodily injury received by any member of such organization while
acting in the line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 13-405)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding
$200 for any person to wear, carry or display a Police Reserve Force
identification card or to otherwise deceitfully represent himself or herself to
be connected with the Police Reserve Force, per §§
33.020 through
33.029 of this chapter, unless he or she is in fact a member thereof in good
standing.
(Prior Code, § 13-321)
      (2)   Any person other than a member of the Force who shall wear such
uniform or badge as may be prescribed per §
33.026 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction,
shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 13-322)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES AND TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Depositories designated; funds to be deposited
   
34.002   Funds secured by unit collateral system
Sales Tax
   
34.015   Adoption; amendments and effective date
   
34.016   Definitions
   
34.017   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.018   Subsisting state permits
   
34.019   Purpose of revenues
   
34.020   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
34.021   Exemptions on sales subject to other tax
   
34.022   Exemptions generally
   
34.023   Exemptions for governmental and nonprofit entities
   
34.024   Exemptions for agriculture
   
34.025   Exemptions for manufacturers
   
34.026   Exemptions for corporations and partnerships
   
34.027   Time when due; returns and records
   
34.028   Payment of tax; brackets
   
34.029   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.030   Duty of vendor to collect
   
34.031   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
34.032   Interest and penalties for delinquency
   
34.033   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
34.034   Erroneous payments; claims for refunds
   
34.035   Records confidential
   
34.036   Amendment provisions
   
34.037   Provisions cumulative
Use Tax
   
34.050   Adoption
   
34.051   Definitions
   
34.052   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.053   Subsisting state permits
   
34.054   Purpose of revenues
   
34.055   Tax levied
   
34.056   Exemptions
   
34.057   Time when due; returns and payments
   
34.058   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.059   Duty of retailer or vendor to collect
   
34.060   Permits for retailers or vendors not within or both within and without
state
   
34.061   Revoking permits for noncompliance
   
34.062   Remunerative deductions for retailers or vendors of other states
   
34.063   Interest and penalties for delinquency
   
34.064   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
34.065   Erroneous payments; claims for refunds
   
34.066   Records confidential
   
34.067   Provisions cumulative
Tourism Tax
   
34.080   Definitions
   
34.081   Tax rate
   
34.082   Designation of tax on bills
   
34.083   Duty of operator to collect
   
34.084   Remittance of Hotel Lodging Tax
   
34.085   Tourism and Development Fund created
   
34.086   Disbursement of funds
   
34.087   Exemptions
Utility Tax
   
34.100   Tax levied
   
34.101   Franchises exempt
   
34.102   Payment of tax
   
34.103   Failure to pay
   
34.104   Tax constitutes a lien
Natural Gas Tax
   
34.115   Tax levied
   
34.116   Franchises exempt
   
34.117   Payment of tax
   
34.118   Failure to pay
   
34.119   Tax constitutes a lien
   
34.120   Permit granted when franchise not held
Telephone Exchange Fee
   
34.135   Fee levied
   
34.136   Time when due; payment
   
34.137   Fee in lieu of other fees or taxes
Purchasing Powers
   
34.150   Definitions
   
34.151   Purchasing officers
   
34.152   Purchases without Approval
   
34.153   Competitive bids
   
34.154   Lease/purchase agreements
   
34.155   Sale or distribution of surplus property
   
34.156   Sale or distribution of surplus real property
   
34.157   Cooperative purchasing
   
34.158   Prohibited purchases
   
34.159   Emergency purchases
 
   
34.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED.
   Banks and all savings and loan associations which are incorporated under
federal or state law may be designated as depositories for the funds of the
town. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by
him or her in such banks or savings and loan associations.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
Statutory reference:
   Deposits by treasurers, designation of depositories, see 11 O.S. § 12-110
§ 34.002 FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM.
   The deposits of the town shall be secured by the Security for Local Public
Deposits Act provided by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
Statutory reference:
   Security for Local Public Deposits Act, see 62 O.S. §§ 517.1 et seq.
SALES TAX
§ 34.015 ADOPTION; AMENDMENTS AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Calera
Sales Tax Ordinance.” The following are the sales tax ordinances passed by the
town.
 
Ordinance Date      Tax
2004-01   11-2-2004 0.5%
 
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
   (B)   This subchapter became effective as to each cent tax after the
approval of a majority of the registered voters of the town voting on the
ordinance in the manner prescribed by 11 O.S. § 16-112.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§ 34.016 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State
Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 34.017 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for the purpose of 68 O.S. §§
1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 34.018 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq. are, for the purpose of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 34.019 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues as follows:
   (A)   One percent of the sales tax to be used to maintain the roads and
streets in the town;
   (B)   Two percent of the sales tax receipts to be used to provide revenue
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the town; and
   (C)   One-half percent of the proceeds to be used to provide funds to the
Town Volunteer Fire Department to purchase a new pumper truck and other
equipment for the new pumper truck and the Fire Department of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-207) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 8-3-2004)
§ 34.020 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax as set forth in §
34.015(A)(2) of this chapter upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived
from all sales taxable under 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., including, but not
exclusive of, the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam or any other
utility or public service, except for water and those specifically exempt by
this subchapter;
   (C)   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, Pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
   (D)   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including the transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This
shall include all services and rental charges having any connection with the
transmission of any message;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds and characters and the
service of printing or overprinting, including the copying of information by
mimeograph or multigraph or by otherwise duplicating written or printed matter
in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotels, apartment hotels, public
rooming houses, motels, public lodging houses or tourist camps;
   (G)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels and
parking lots;
   (H)   Selling, renting or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or software
or coding sheets, cards or magnetic tapes on which prewritten programs have
been coded, punched or otherwise recorded;
   (I)   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants and other dispensers, or sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises, or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (J)   Advertising of all kinds, types and characters, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except for those specifically exempt by this subchapter;
   (K)   Dues or fees to clubs, including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge which would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or at any similar facility or business;
   (L)   Sales of tickets, fees or other charges made for admission to, or
voluntary contributions made to, places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
which would have otherwise been made;
   (M)   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind of
activity when no admission is charged to spectators, such as tennis,
racquetball or handball courts;
   (N)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment or recreational activities, such as trampolines or golf carts;
   (O)   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment or other
recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts or other
sports and athletic equipment;
   (P)   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without any
deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a person
who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
   (Q)   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of tangible
personal property, including the rental or lease of personal property when the
rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered, provided that if the rental or
lease charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making
the rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the
rental or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the
statement, bill or invoice delivered to the consumer, then the cost of services
rendered shall be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
   (R)   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease or other device or instrument
whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed performances or
rights to receive images, pictures or performances for telecast by any method
are transferred, provided that persons regularly engaged in the business of
exhibiting motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or admissions is taxed
under this subchapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or users in respect
to the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture features, shorts,
cartoons or scenes from copyrighted features, and the sale or licensing of such
films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of this subchapter;
   (S)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees and other floral items, whether or not
the same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or
nursery businesses in the state, including all orders taken by an Oklahoma
business for delivery in another state, provided that all orders taken outside
the state for delivery within the state shall not be subject to the tax levied
by this subchapter;
   (T)   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors or
other salespersons for resale where there is a likelihood that the state will
lose tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this subchapter because of:
      (1)   The operation of the business;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The turnover of independent contractors;
      (4)   The lack of a place of business in which to display a permit or
keep records;
      (5)   Lack of adequate records;
      (6)   The persons are minors or transients;
      (7)   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
      (8)   Any other reasonable reason.
   (U)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property, including
materials, supplies and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate, even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property, are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable; and
   (V)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repairpersons, are hereby
declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable.
(Prior Code, § 7-208)
§ 34.021 EXEMPTIONS ON SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this subchapter
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.,
inclusive, but not exclusive, of and derived from the:
   (A)   Sales of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
   (B)   Sales of motor vehicles, or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles, on which the state’s motor vehicle excise tax,
levied by state law, has been paid;
   (C)   Sales of crude petroleum, natural or casinghead gas and other products
subject to the gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall not
apply when such products are sold to consumers or users for consumption or use,
except for when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This division (C) shall not
operate to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of
the state; and
   (D)   Sales of aircraft on which the tax levied pursuant to 68 O.S. §§ 6001
through 6004 has been paid. The provisions of this division (D) became
operative July 1, 1984.
(Prior Code, § 7-209) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.022 EXEMPTIONS GENERALLY.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or high
schools in motor or other vehicles;
   (B)   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed $1, or local transportation of persons within the corporate limits of a
municipality, except by taxicab;
   (C)   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers; other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed $0.75. A CARRIER is a person who regularly delivers
newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned route;
   (D)   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling the
articles purchased, whether within or without the state, provided that such
sales to residents of the state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this subchapter. This exemption shall not apply
to sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons purchase
items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the business of
reselling, neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible personal
property to peddlers, solicitors and other salespersons who do not have an
established place of business and a sales tax permit;
   (E)   Sales of advertising space in newspapers, periodicals and billboard
advertising services and any advertising through electronic media, including
radio, television and cable television;
   (F)   Feed, supplies, machinery and equipment purchased by persons regularly
engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any other form of
terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of raising the same
for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the
purchaser when the items are to be used, and in fact are used, in the raising
of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify in writing on the
invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he or she is regularly
engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that the items
purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall certify to the
State Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant the
full benefit of the exemption;
   (G)   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human
beings by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption
shall not apply to proprietary or patent medicines as defined by 59 O.S. §
353.1;
   (H)   Transfers of title or possession of empty, partially filled or filled
returnable oil drums to any person who is not regularly engaged in the business
of selling, reselling or otherwise transferring empty, partially filled or
filled returnable oil drums;
   (I)   Sales of food or food products for home consumption which are
purchased in whole or in part with coupons issued pursuant to the federal
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), as authorized by 7 U.S.C. §§
2011 through 2029, as to that portion purchased with such coupons. The
exemption provided for such sales shall be inapplicable to such sales upon the
effective date of any federal law which removes the requirement of the
exemption as a condition for participation by the state in the federal
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP); and
   (J)   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the town
from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas and
electricity, whether sold for residential or commercial purposes. Any sales tax
levied by the town on natural or artificial gas and electricity shall be in
effect regardless of ordinance or contractual provisions referring to a
previously-imposed state sales tax on such items.
(Prior Code, § 7-211) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.023 EXEMPTIONS FOR GOVERNMENTAL AND NONPROFIT ENTITIES.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the U.S.
government, to the state, to any political subdivision of the state or to any
agency of a political subdivision of the state, provided that all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the U.S.
government, the state or any of its political subdivisions shall not be
exempted from the tax levied by this subchapter, except as hereinafter
provided;
   (B)   Sales of property to agents appointed or contracted with by agencies
or instrumentalities of the U.S. government if ownership and possession of such
property transfers immediately to the U.S. government;
   (C)   Sales made directly by county, district or state fair authorities of
the state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of the
fair authority;
   (D)   Sales of food in cafeterias or lunch rooms of elementary schools, high
schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for teachers and
pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for profit;
   (E)   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided that such
societies or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan
or system, and provided that such societies or organizations do not operate for
a profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members
thereof to the exclusion of other members;
   (F)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except for sales made in the course of business for profit or savings,
competing with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
   (G)   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state-supported college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described;
   (H)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the council
organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy Scouts of
America, Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. and the Campfire Girls shall be exempt from
sales tax;
   (I)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the state system of
higher education and the Grand River Dam Authority, or to any person with whom
any of the above-named subdivisions or agencies of the state have duly entered
into a public contract pursuant to law necessary for carrying out such public
contract or to any subcontractor to such a public contract. Any person making
purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency of the state shall certify in
writing on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor
that the purchases are made for and on behalf of such subdivision or agency of
the state and set out the name of such public subdivision or agency;
   (J)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to private
institutions of higher education, private institutions of higher education and
private elementary and secondary institutions of education accredited by the
State Department of Education or registered by the State Board of Education for
the purpose of participating in federal programs or accredited as defined by
the State Regents for Higher Education, which are exempt from taxation pursuant
to the provisions of I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), being 26 U.S.C § 501(c)(3), including
materials, supplies and equipment used in the construction and improvement of
buildings and other structures owned by the institutions and operated for
education purposes. Any person, firm, agency or entity making purchases on
behalf of any institution, agency or subdivision in the state shall certify in
writing on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket the nature of the purchases;
   (K)   Tuition and education fees paid to private institutions of higher
education and private elementary and secondary institutions of education
accredited by the State Department of Education or registered by the State
Board of Education for the purpose of participating in federal programs or
accredited as defined by the State Regents for Higher Education, and which are
exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), being 26
U.S.C § 501(c)(3); and
   (L)   Sales of tangible personal property made by public or private schools
for grade levels kindergarten through twelfth grade, a public school district,
a public school board, a public school student group or organization or public
school district personnel for the purpose of raising funds for the benefit of
such school, school district, school board, student group or organization. For
the purpose of this division (L), PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SCHOOL shall mean any
public or private institution of education accredited by the State Department
of Education or registered by the State Board of Education for the purpose of
participating in federal programs. The sale of tangible personal property in
this division (L) shall not include the sale of admission tickets or
concessions at athletic events.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.024 EXEMPTIONS FOR AGRICULTURE.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Sales of agricultural products produced in the state by the producer
thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold at or from
a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
      (1)   Farm, orchard or garden products;
      (2)   Dairy products sold by a dairy worker or farmer who owns all of the
cows from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
      (3)   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; or
      (4)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not be construed as
exempting sales by florists, nursery workers or chicken hatcheries, or sales of
dairy products by any other business except as set out herein.
   (B)   Livestock, including cattle, horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals, sold by the producer by private treaty or at a special livestock sale;
   (C)   Sales of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chickens, turkeys and eggs, provided that the
purchaser certifies in writing on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be
retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
   (D)   Sales of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone and other generally-recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding
stock and wool- bearing stock, for the purpose of producing eggs, poultry, milk
or meat for human consumption;
      (2)   Feed purchased in the state for the purpose of being fed to, and
which is fed by the purchaser to, horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
      (3)   Any stock tonics, water purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants or other such agricultural supplies;
      (4)   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the marketing or production of eggs;
      (5)   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such as
dogs, cats, birds or such other fur-bearing animals; and
      (6)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used, and in fact is used, for a purpose which
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the Tax Commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy.
   (E)   Sales of items to be used, and in fact used, in the production of
agricultural products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the
following limitations:
      (1)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall
certify in writing on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by
the vendor that he or she is so engaged in farming or ranching and that the
material purchased will be used only in such business;
      (2)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify in writing
on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that he
or she is engaged in the business of applying such materials to lands owned or
leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the business
of farming or ranching, and shall show in the certificate the name or names of
such owner or lessee and operator and the location of the lands on which the
materials are to be applied to each such land, and he or she shall further
certify that his or her contract price has been reduced so as to give the
farmer or rancher the full benefit of this exemption;
      (3)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer, pharmaceuticals and biologicals
to persons engaged in the business of applying such materials on a contract or
custom basis shall not be considered to be sales to contractors under this
subchapter, and the sales shall not be considered to be taxable sales within
the meaning of 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq. As used in this section, AGRICULTURAL
FERTILIZER, PHARMACEUTICALS and BIOLOGICALS means any substance sold and used
for soil enrichment or soil corrective purposes or for promoting the growth and
productivity of plants or animals;
      (4)   Sales of agricultural seeds or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. This section shall
not be construed as exempting from sales tax seeds which are packaged and sold
for use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
      (5)   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. For the purpose of
this section, AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL PESTICIDES shall include any substance or
mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling or
mitigating any insect, snail, slug, rodent, bird, nematode, fungus, weed or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life or virus, bacteria or
other microorganism, except for viruses, bacteria or other microorganisms on or
in living man, or any substance or mixture of substances intended for use as a
plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant; and
      (6)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the purchaser
where the items are to be used, and in fact are used, in the production of
agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify in writing on the copy of
the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that the material
purchased will only be used in his or her farming occupation. The vendor shall
certify to the State Tax Commission that the contract price of the items has
been reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption.
   (F)   Sales of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil, lubricants
and other substances used for the operation and maintenance of farm machinery
to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production, cultivation,
planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation or irrigation
of any livestock, poultry, agricultural or dairy products produced from such
lands. Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel must
certify in writing on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by
the vendor that he or she is engaged in farming or ranching and that the farm
machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used only in farming or
ranching. The exemption provided for herein shall not apply to motor vehicles.
Each purchaser shall certify in writing on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor that the material purchased will only be
used in his or her farming occupation. The vendor shall certify to the State
Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant the full
benefit of the exemption.
(Prior Code, § 7-212) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.025 EXEMPTIONS FOR MANUFACTURERS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Goods, wares, merchandise and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing for sale a finished article, and such
goods, wares, merchandise or property which become integral parts of the
manufactured, compounded, processed, assembled or prepared products or are
consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling
or preparing products for resale. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean
those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing
operations and generally recognized as such;
   (B)   Ethyl, alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending the same
with motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
   (C)   Sales of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in the state, and of machinery and
equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing
plants already established in the state. This exemption shall not apply unless
such machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the
process of manufacturing property subject to taxation under this subchapter.
The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS means those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations and generally recognized as such;
   (D)   Sales of containers, when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for the
purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to a
consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as RETURNABLE
CONTAINERS, except for returnable soft drink bottles. Each and every transfer
of title or possession of such returnable containers in the state to any person
who is not regularly engaged in the business of selling, reselling or otherwise
transferring empty or filled containers shall be taxable under this subchapter.
This exemption shall not apply to the sale of labels or other materials
delivered along with items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely
essential to the sale of the sold merchandise;
   (E)   Sales of tangible personal property manufactured in the state, when
sold by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state; and
   (F)   Machinery, equipment, fuels and chemicals incorporated into and
directly used or consumed in the process of treatments to substantially reduce
the volume or harmful properties of controlled industrial waste at treatment
facilities specifically permitted pursuant to the Controlled Industrial Waste
Disposal Act, being 27A O.S. §§ 2-7-101 et seq., and operated at the place of
waste generation, or facilities approved by the State Department of Health for
the cleanup of a site of contamination. The term CONTROLLED INDUSTRIAL WASTE
may include low-level radioactive waste for the purpose of this division (F).
(Prior Code, § 7-213) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.026 EXEMPTIONS FOR CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this
subchapter:
   (A)   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
      (1)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this division (A)(1), the term REORGANIZATION means
a statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
      (2)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
      (3)   To a corporation for the purpose of the organization of such
corporation where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately
after the transfer in control of the corporation, and where the stock or
securities received by each is substantially in proportion to his or her
interest in the property prior to the transfer;
      (4)   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer
members of such partnership and the interest in the partnership received by
each is substantially in proportion to his or her interest in the property
prior to the transfer; or
      (5)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of such partnership.
   (B)   The sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who, after such sale, owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property.
(Prior Code, § 7-214) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.027 TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS AND RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under 68 O.S. §§
1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-215)
§ 34.028 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of the state sales tax.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the tax collector in the collection of both the town sales tax and the
state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 7-216)
§ 34.029 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due under this subchapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 7-217)
§ 34.030 DUTY OF VENDOR TO COLLECT.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in the town to collect from the
consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this subchapter or an
amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
   (C)   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this subchapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-218) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.031 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of the tax collected hereunder and shall
be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
for the collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-219)
§ 34.032 INTEREST AND PENALTIES FOR DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this subchapter. The failure or refusal of any
taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time
and manner required by this subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
In addition, if the delinquency continues for a period of five days, then the
taxpayer shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-220) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.033 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver of or as applied in
administration of the state sales tax as provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. §
220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-221)
§ 34.034 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIMS FOR REFUNDS.
   A refund of an erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for the
administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227. To
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. §
227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-222)
§ 34.035 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
and each subsection thereof, are adopted by reference and made fully effective
and applicable to the administration of the town sales tax as if herein set
forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-224)
§ 34.036 AMENDMENT PROVISIONS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance, hereby
authorize the Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without the approval of the
qualified electors of the town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-225)
§ 34.037 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
or all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-226)
USE TAX
§ 34.050 ADOPTION.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Calera Use
Tax Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 7-601) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.051 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State Use Tax
Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this subchapter. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the municipal government or the official
agency of the state duly-designated according to law or by contract authorized
by law to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
      TOWN. The Town of Calera, Oklahoma.
      TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Prior Code, § 7-602) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.052 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for the purpose of the State Use
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-617) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.053 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., are for the
purpose of this subchapter hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of
any requirement for an additional municipal permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-618) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.054 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the municipality,
and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing
body of the municipality for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully
expended as authorized.
(Prior Code, § 7-619) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.055 TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   Effective October 1, 2007, there is hereby levied and there shall be
paid by every person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the
municipality tangible personal property purchased or brought into the
municipality an excise tax on the storage, use or other consuming within the
municipality of such property at the rate of 3.5% of the purchase price of such
property. Such tax shall be paid by every person storing, using or otherwise
consuming within the municipality any tangible personal property purchased or
brought into the municipality.
   (B)   The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the municipality and shall be
assessed to only property purchased outside of the state, provided that the tax
levied herein shall not be levied against tangible personal property intended
solely for use outside of the municipality but which is stored in the
municipality pending shipment outside of the municipality, or which is
temporarily retained in the municipality for the purpose of fabrication,
repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other service.
   (C)   Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services, provided that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount which
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the municipality had been levied on
the sale of such goods or services.
(Prior Code, § 7-603) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.056 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual visiting in the
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property on
which a tax equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and this subchapter has been paid by the
person using such tangible personal property in the municipality, whether such
tax was levied under the laws of the state or of some other state or
municipality of the United States. If any article of tangible personal property
has already been subjected to a tax by the state or by any other state or
municipality in respect to its sale or use in an amount less than the tax
imposed by the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and this
subchapter, then the provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to it by a
rate measured by the difference only between the rate provided by both the
State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and this subchapter and the
rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. However, no
credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality if that
state or municipality does not grant like-credit for taxes paid in this state
and the municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons for
the operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality,
provided that this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and
equipment is incorporated into and is directly used in the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the
municipality. The term MANUFACTURING PLANT shall mean those establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations and generally
recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with the intent to become a
resident of the municipality, where such personal property is for such
individual’s personal use or enjoyment; or
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; in respect to livestock
purchased outside of the state and brought into the municipality for feeding or
breeding purposes and which is later resold.
(Prior Code, § 7-604) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.057 TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS AND PAYMENTS.
   The tax levied by this subchapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S.
§§ 1401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-605) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.058 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalties and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 7-606) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.059 DUTY OF RETAILER OR VENDOR TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the state and making sales of tangible personal property from a
place of business outside the state for use in the municipality shall, at the
time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied by this subchapter from
the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and
form prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by
regulation, require such receipt.
   (B)   Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax Commission the names
and addresses of all of his or her agents operating in the municipality and the
locations of any and all distribution or sales houses or office or other places
of business in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-607) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.060 PERMITS FOR RETAILERS OR VENDORS NOT WITHIN OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT
STATE.
   (A)   The Tax Commission may, in its discretion and upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within the state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in the municipality, and by the out-of-state
place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without the state and making sales of tangible personal property at
such out-of-state place of business for use in the municipality. Such retailer
or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the
Tax Commission in such a manner and subject to such regulations and agreements
as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such
retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible personal property sold,
to his or her knowledge, for use within the municipality.
   (B)   Such authority and permit may be canceled at any time when the Tax
Commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from the
person using such property in the municipality, provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by a delivery to the purchaser
within the municipality by the retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or
vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or leased, but not by common carrier, such
sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to the applicable municipal
sales tax at the point of delivery, and the tax shall be collected and reported
under the taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 7-608) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.061 REVOKING PERMITS FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in the
state, or maintaining a place of business both within and without the state,
and authorized to collect the tax herein levied fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this subchapter or the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401
et seq., or any orders, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission, the Tax
Commission, upon notice and hearing as provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, may by
order revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and
if any such retailer or vendor is a corporation authorized to do business in
the state, then it may, after the notice and hearing above provided, cancel
said corporation’s license to do business in the state, and shall issue a new
license only when such corporation has complied with the obligations under this
chapter, the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., or any orders,
rules or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7-609) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.062 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS FOR RETAILERS OR VENDORS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and remittances of the tax collected hereunder
shall be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said Code for the
collection of state use taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-610) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.063 INTEREST AND PENALTIES FOR DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this subchapter, provided that the failure or refusal
of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of
tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall cause such tax to
be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount
allowed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-611) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.064 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the municipal tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applies in the administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. §
220, and to accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions
of said 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-612) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.065 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIMS FOR REFUNDS.
   A refund of an erroneous payment of the municipal use tax herein levied may
be made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for the
administration of the state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said 68
O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-613) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.066 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State
Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and each subsection thereof are
hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to the
administration of the municipal use tax as if herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-615) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
§ 34.067 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the municipality’s ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-616) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
TOURISM TAX
§ 34.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. Efforts which seek to improve the financial well-being
and quality of life for a community by creating or retaining jobs and
supporting or growing incomes and the tax base.
   HOTEL. A commercial establishment offering lodging to persons for
consideration in which six or more rooms are used for the accommodations of
such guests, whether such rooms are in one or several structures, and which is
located within the town limits of the town.
      (2)   The term shall not include nursing homes, hospitals, assisted
living centers, single- family dwellings, duplexes, apartment complexes or
establishments which primarily provide extended-stay rooms for rent.
   OCCUPANCY. The act, or the right to the act, of using a room, or the
furnishings within the room, for a fixed period of time.
   OPERATOR. Any person or entity which manages or directs control of a hotel
within the town limits of the town.
   RENT. The money or consideration paid by an occupant to the hotel in
exchange for occupancy.
   ROOM. A physical unit of a hotel which is available for the occupancy of a
person for lodging purposes.
   TAX. The contribution imposed by the town for the rent of a hotel room.
   TOURISM. The business of providing information, accommodations,
transportation or other services to tourists.
(Prior Code, § 7-701) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 34.081 TAX RATE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a tax not to exceed 5% of the gross rental
receipt of all hotel sales of room rentals, as allowed by the State Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
   (B)   This tax shall be in addition to any existing sales tax imposed by the
town or the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-702) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 34.082 DESIGNATION OF TAX ON BILLS.
   The operator shall separately designate and list the tax, along with any
other tax, on all statements, invoices or receipts.
(Prior Code, § 7-703) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 34.083 DUTY OF OPERATOR TO COLLECT.
   The operator shall be responsible for the collection of the tax from
occupants and shall be liable to the town for the tax.
(Prior Code, § 7-704) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-13-2020) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.084 REMITTANCE OF HOTEL LODGING TAX.
   (A)   Collection authority. The town shall enter into an agreement with the
State Tax Commission for the collection of the imposed hotel lodging tax under
68 O.S. § 2701.
   (B)   Due date. The due date for reporting and remittance of the tax shall
be the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the charges for
occupancy of a hotel are incurred.
(Prior Code, § 7-705) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 34.085 TOURISM AND DEVELOPMENT FUND CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund, to be known as the Tourism
and Development Fund. One percent of the taxes levied and collected pursuant to
this subchapter shall be deposited into said fund.
   (B)   The fund shall be managed and expended by the Town Board of Trustees
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-706) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 34.086 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Funds received from the hotel lodging tax shall be dispersed as
follows:
      (1)   To the Town Police Department Fund: 20%;
      (2)   To the Town Fire Department Fund: 20%;
      (3)   To the Town General Government Fund: 40%; and
      (4)   To the Town Tourism and Development Fund: 20%.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees shall be responsible for preparing an
annual budget of hotel lodging tax revenues.
(Prior Code, § 7-707) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 34.087 EXEMPTIONS.
   The exemptions from such tax enumerated in 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., are
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. To the extent that any
conflicts in connection with the permitted exemptions arise, the State Sales
Tax Code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 7-708) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-13-2020)
UTILITY TAX
§ 34.100 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross
receipts from residential and commercial sales of electricity in the town,
which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or
excise tax levied by such town, all as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
Statutory reference:
   Utility tax authorized for municipalities, see 68 O.S. §§ 2601 et seq.
§ 34.101 FRANCHISES EXEMPT.
   The tax levied under this subchapter, when levied, shall apply to all
persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing electricity within the town limits, except that it shall not apply
to any person, firm, association or corporation operating under a valid
franchise from the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-402)
§ 34.102 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax levied under this subchapter on electricity receipts shall be levied
for a term of not more than one year, and it shall be payable as required by
the Town Board of Trustees and placed in the General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-403)
§ 34.103 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town, and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax and all expenses of collecting the same,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-404) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.104 TAX CONSTITUTES A LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all assets
located within the town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling electricity within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-405)
NATURAL GAS TAX
§ 34.115 TAX LEVIED.
   From and after the effective date hereof, there is hereby levied and
assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross receipts from residential and
commercial sales of natural gas in the town, which tax shall be in lieu of any
other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax levied by such town, all as
provided by 68 O.S. §§ 2601 through 2605.
(Prior Code, § 7-501) (Ord. 97-3, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 34.116 FRANCHISES EXEMPT.
   The tax levied under §
34.115 of this chapter, when levied, shall apply to all persons, firms,
associations or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing natural gas
within the town limits, except that it shall not apply to any person, firm,
association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from said town.
(Prior Code, § 7-502) (Ord. 97-3, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 34.117 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax levied under §
34.115 of this chapter shall be levied for a term of not less than one year,
and it shall be payable monthly and placed in the General Revenue Fund of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 7-503) (Ord. 97-3, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 34.118 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the town, and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax and all expenses of collecting the same,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-504) (Ord. 97-3, passed 12-2-1997) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.119 TAX CONSTITUTES A LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all of the
assets located within the town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business of selling natural gas within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-505) (Ord. 97-3, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 34.120 PERMIT GRANTED WHEN FRANCHISE NOT HELD.
   Any persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing natural gas within the town limits which are not operating under a
valid franchise from said town, and upon which the tax provided under §
34.115 of this chapter is imposed, are hereby granted a revocable permit by
said town for so long as this subchapter remains in effect and the taxes are
paid in accordance with the terms of this subchapter to acquire, construct,
erect, install, extend, repair, remove, relocate, replace, operate and maintain
a system of works, pipes, pipelines, apparatus, structures and appurtenances
in, across, upon and under the streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes,
parks, parkways, sidewalks, parking, driveways, rights- of-way, utility
easements and other public ways, places, areas and grounds, all being sometimes
referred to herein as “streets, alleys, avenues and other public ways, places
and grounds,” in the town as now constituted, and as may be added to hereafter,
for the purpose of transporting, distributing and selling natural gas to said
town, its inhabitants and the public generally for domestic, commercial and
industrial uses, and for any and all other purposes for which natural gas,
during the period of this revocable permit, may be used, together with the
right to enter upon the streets, alleys, avenues and other public ways, places
and grounds of said town for the purpose of constructing, erecting, installing,
extending, relocating, operating, maintaining, removing and repairing said
works, pipes, pipelines and all necessary apparatus, machinery, structures and
appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 7-506) (Ord. 97-3, passed 12-2-1997)
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
§ 34.135 FEE LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
town in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current year for
exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of
the town to compensate the town for the expenses incurred and services rendered
incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulations
and police control of the construction of the lines and equipment of the
telephone company in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
Statutory reference:
   Town powers to levy utility tax on gross receipts, see 68 O.S. §§ 2601 et
seq.
§ 34.136 TIME WHEN DUE; PAYMENT.
   The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the town annually
for each 12-month period, due on or before July 20 each year for the preceding
12 months, and such shall be paid into and appropriated and expended from the
General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
§ 34.137 FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES OR TAXES.
   (A)   During continued, substantial compliance with the terms of this
subchapter by the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby
shall be, and continue to be, in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise,
franchise, license, privilege and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except
for ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any
existing arrangement whereby the town is permitted to use underground conduits,
duct space or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police call
systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
PURCHASING POWERS
§ 34.150 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PURCHASING OFFICER. Purchasing agent of the Town of Calera, Oklahoma, as
designated by the Board of Trustees.
   SUPPLIES. Includes all new supplies, materials and equipment.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.151 PURCHASING OFFICER.
   There is hereby established purchasing officers for the town who shall have
the authority and duties as set forth in this subchapter. The purchasing
officers shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees and shall serve at their
pleasure. No bond shall be required of any purchasing officer. The Board of
Trustees, in its discretion, may appoint one or more purchasing officers. The
Town Clerk and department heads shall be a designated as purchasing officers
for the town by virtue of their positions, unless otherwise provided by motion
or resolution of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.152 PURCHASES WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The purchasing officers of the town shall be empowered to purchase
supplies and services, when the item or items purchased or contracted for do
(es) not exceed the sum of $5,000; provided, that the purchasing officer may
not, for the purpose of avoiding this prohibition, enter into separate
contracts each for a sum of less than $5,000, when the total of the purchases
are for the same purposes and exceed the purchasing limit set forth herein.
   (B)   When an item or items to be purchased of contracted for exceeds the
sum of $5,000, but does not exceed $10,000, a purchasing officer and the Town
Clerk or Deputy Town Clerk can approve the purchase together.
   (C)   Purchases exceeding $10,000 that have not previously been approved by
the Board of Trustees must be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval.
   (D)   Purchases for specific equipment approved in the budget process and
included in the budget need not be re-submitted to the Board of Trustees for
approval.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.153 COMPETITIVE BIDS.
   (A)   Procedure. All purchases required by the Board of Trustees, or other
authority, to be made by competitive bid shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The notice required herein shall include a general description of
the services required or the articles to be purchased and shall state where
bids shall be submitted and where specifications may be secured and the time
and place of opening of bids.
      (2)   When deemed necessary by a purchasing officer or the Board of
Trustees, bid deposits may be required, and when they are required, it shall be
so stated in the public notice inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be
entitled to a return of such money where it has been required. A successful
bidder, when bid deposits have been required, shall forfeit the bid deposit
required upon his or her failure to enter into a contract within ten days after
the award.
      (3)   Bids shall be submitted, sealed, to the purchasing officer, Town
Clerk or other designated individual and shall be identified as bids on the
envelope. Bids shall be opened at such time and place as contained in the
notice.
      (4)   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to reject all bids,
parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or contractual
services included in the proposed acquisition when the public interest will be
served thereby. The town shall not accept bids of any person who is in default
of the payment of taxes, licenses, utilities or other monies due to the town.
      (5)   Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest best bidder. In
determining the lowest best bidder, in addition to the price, the following
factors should be considered:
         (a)   The capacity and skill to perform the contract or to provide the
service;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly or within the time specified without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the services;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies, or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (B)   Award to other than low bidder.
      (1)   When the award is not given to the lowest bidder, a full statement
of the reasons placing the order elsewhere shall be entered on the minutes of
the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   When one or more bids are received for the same total amount or
unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded to a
bidder residing within the corporate limits of the town. When one of the
bidders does not reside in the town, the award shall be made to the bidder
residing in the closest proximity to the town.
   (C)   Solicitation of quotes authorized.
      (1)   Unless otherwise authorized in division (D) below, for any purchase
of supplies, materials, vehicles or equipment exceeding $10,000, the purchasing
officer shall submit to at least three persons, firms or corporations dealing
in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if there are not three
persons, firms or corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, a
request for quotation, or invitation to provide a quotation, giving them an
opportunity to provide a quotation or bid after giving the specifications and/
or requirements for the supplies, materials, vehicles or equipment to be
purchased.
      (2)   The solicitation of quotes pursuant to this subsection is not
authorized if a competitive bidding procedure is required by state law or
ordinance.
   (D)   Purchases authorized. The following purchases are authorized without
the requirement of solicitation of quotes or the solicitation of bids, unless
otherwise mandated by the Board of Trustees or required by law:
      (1)   The purchase of supplies, materials, vehicles or equipment whose
cost does not exceed $10,000 in a single transaction and for which competitive
bidding is not required by law;
      (2)   The purchase of supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services which can be furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a
uniform price wherever purchased;
      (3)   The purchase of supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services purchased from another unit of government at a price deemed below that
obtainable from private dealers, including government surplus;
      (4)   The purchase of supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services when purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the
state purchasing agency or any other state agency hereafter authorized to
regulate prices for items purchased by the state, whether such price is
determined by contract negotiated with a vendor or otherwise;
      (5)   The purchase of supplies, materials, vehicles or equipment directly
from any contract duly awarded by this state or any state agency pursuant to
the State Central Purchasing Act, and commonly referred to as the “state bid
price;”
      (6)   Purchases of supplies, materials, vehicles, equipment or
contractual services pursuant to cooperative purchasing agreements entered into
with a public agency or a political subdivision of the state, or another state
as authorized by the Interlocal Cooperation Act, 74 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.; and
      (7)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, financial, accounting, medical or legal, unless competitive
bidding is required by applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.154 LEASE/PURCHASE AGREEMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees may enter into such lease/purchase agreements for
supplies as it deems necessary for the efficient operation of the town.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.155 SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   All supplies, equipment and materials owned by the town which
are no longer used or have become obsolete, worn out or unnecessary, and are no
longer of any use to the town, and the value of such obsolete, worn out or
unnecessary supplies, equipment or materials does not exceed $1,000 per surplus
item or item(s), for items that are customarily sold together, may be disposed
of by the Town Clerk or department head in the manner of sale or disposal
authorized in this section.
      (2)   The Town Clerk or department head shall keep a journal of all
property declared surplus with a value of less than $1,000 and the disposition
of the property.
   (B)   All supplies, equipment and materials owned by the town which are no
longer used or have become obsolete, worn out or unnecessary, and are no longer
of any use to the town, and the value of such obsolete, worn out or unnecessary
supplies, equipment or materials exceeds $1,000 per surplus item or item(s),
for items that are customarily sold together, may be disposed of by the Town
Clerk or department head when authorized by the Board of Trustees in the manner
of sale or disposal authorized in this section, or in such manner as the Board
of Trustees may prescribe.
   (C)   The Town Clerk or his or her designee shall utilize one of the
following methods of sale or disposition of surplus property that will bring
the most benefit to the town, unless otherwise directed by the Board of
Trustees:
      (1)   Transfer to public trust with the town being the beneficiary of the
trust;
      (2)   Trade-in credit toward the acquisition of new or used property; or
      (3)   Sale of surplus property “as is, where is, with all faults,” with
no warranties, express or implied, as to the condition, usability or fitness
for a particular purpose, according to one of the following methods:
         (a)   Sale at public auction to include online auction sites;
         (b)   Solicitation of sealed bids, with award to the highest
responsible bidder;
         (c)   Sale for scrap. Surplus property may be sold for scrap if the
Town Clerk or his or her designee, determines that the scrap value of the
surplus property exceeds the sale value of the property if sold by another
method; or
         (d)   Negotiated sale. Surplus property may be sold by negotiation if
the Town Clerk or his or her designee, determines that only one known buyer is
available or interested in acquiring the property.
   (D)   Surplus property that is of minimal or no value to the town and which
costs of disposition of such equipment would exceed the amount recovered, the
Town Clerk or department head shall dispose of the surplus property in the
manner most beneficial to the town.
   (E)   Surplus property which may be of value or use to another public
agency, including, but not limited to, municipalities, counties or the state
may be donated by the town to such public agency, as approved by the Town Clerk
or directed by the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Proceeds from the sale of surplus property shall be deposited into the
appropriate fund as determined by the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.156 SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY.
   Any real property of the town, either improved or unimproved, declared by
the Board of Trustees to be surplus and no longer necessary to the operations
of the town may be sold or otherwise disposed of by the Board of Trustees upon
such terms which are deemed to be most beneficial to the town and its citizens.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.157 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The purchasing officer shall have the authority to join with other units of
government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interest of the town
will be served thereby.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.158 PROHIBITED PURCHASES.
   Any contract subject to the provision of this subchapter in which the
purchasing officer or any officer of the town is financially interested,
directly or indirectly, shall be void.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.159 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   By purchasing officer. In case of an apparent emergency which requires
the immediate purchase of supplies or contractual services, the mayor or vice
mayor shall be empowered to grant written authorization to the purchasing
officer to secure by purchase in the open market at the lowest attainable
price, any supplies or contractual services, regardless of the amount of the
expenditures.
   (B)   By department head.
      (1)   In case of an actual emergency occurring during normal office
hours, the head of any department of the town may, with the consent of the
purchasing officer and the approval of the mayor, purchase directly any
supplies or contractual services where the immediate procurement is essential
to prevent delays in the work of such department which may vitally affect the
life, health or convenience of the citizens.
      (2)   In the case of an actual emergency occurring outside regular office
hours, the head of any using agency may, with the consent of the Mayor, Vice
Mayor or the purchasing officer, purchase directly any supplies or contractual
services whose immediate procurement is essential to prevent delays in the work
of such department which vitally affects the life, health or convenience of the
citizens; provided, that he or she shall exercise great care to ensure that the
supplies or contractual services are procured at a reasonable cost. The
purchasing officer may further make purchases in the event of an emergency as
provided in 61 O.S. § 130.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   A vendor, as defined in §§
34.015 through
34.037 of this chapter, who willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or
refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by §§
34.015 through
34.037 of this chapter, or who willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or
refuses to comply with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or
user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatever means, all or any part of
the tax therein levied, or who makes in any form of advertising, verbally or
otherwise, any statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax or
paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a
price including the tax or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
         (b)   Any person, firm, corporation, joint venture or association
which willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums
required to be collected or paid by §§
34.015 through
34.037 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-218)
      (2)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by §§
34.015 through
34.037 of this chapter, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make
the reports and remittances therein required, or the making of any false and
fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or
portion thereof rightfully due under §§
34.015 through
34.037 of this chapter, shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-223)
      (3)   A violation of §
34.022(F) by the purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-211)
      (4)   (a)   Any person who wrongfully or erroneously certifies that
purchases are for any of the subdivisions or agencies of the state named in §
34.023(I) of this chapter or who otherwise violates §
34.023(I) of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined an amount equal to double the amount of the sales tax
involved or incarcerated for not more than 60 days, or both.
         (b)   Any person, firm, agency or entity making purchases on behalf of
any institution, agency or subdivision in the state as per §
34.023(J) of this chapter shall certify in writing on the copy of the invoice
of sales ticket the nature of the purchases, and a violation of this act shall
be a misdemeanor as set forth in division (B)(4)(a) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-210)
      (5)   (a)   A violation of §
34.024(E)(6) of this chapter by the purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor,
and upon violation and conviction for a second offense, the State Tax
Commission shall revoke the vendor’s sales tax permit.
         (b)   A violation of §
34.024(F) of this chapter by the purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor,
and upon violation and conviction for a second offense, the State Tax
Commission shall revoke the vendor’s sales tax permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-212)
   (C)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by §§
34.050 through
34.067 of this chapter, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make
the reports and remittances herein required, or the making of any false and
fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or
portion thereof rightfully due under §§
34.050 through
34.067 of this chapter, shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and costs.
Each day of noncompliance with §§
34.050 through
34.067 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-614)
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-10-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
      
52.   WATER SERVICE
      
53.   SEWER SERVICE
      
54.   REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Lease of systems to Public Works Authority
   
50.02   Applying for utility services
   
50.03   Separate service connections required
   
50.04   Utility fees and billings generally
   
50.05   Rates and charges set by Board of Trustees
   
50.06   Bill payment; undue hardship adjustments
   
50.07   Delinquent payments; charges and disconnections
   
50.08   Right to interrupt service
   
50.09   Tampering with meters unlawful
   
50.10   Damaging equipment unlawful
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Security deposits for utility services, see
Ch. 51
§ 50.01 LEASE OF SYSTEMS TO PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town has leased the operation of its water and sewer systems to
the Town Public Works Authority, including setting rates for use of the systems
and all regulations governing them. For a copy of current rates and rules, see
the minutes of the Town Public Works Authority.
   (B)   The rates and rules of the Town Public Works Authority are adopted and
incorporated herein by reference and fully applicable as if set out at length
herein.
(Prior Code, § 17-109)
§ 50.02 APPLYING FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to have his or her premises
connected with any of the town’s utilities, water, sewer or trash collection
shall make application and sign a contract therefor upon a printed form to be
furnished for that purpose and shall pay the regular fees and deposits for
installation of the service.
(Prior Code, § 17-101)
§ 50.03 SEPARATE SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Every separate premises supplied must have its own separate service
connection with the mains or lines, and the premises so supplied shall not be
allowed to supply water or sewer to any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 17-102) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All fees and charges in connection with any customer’s use of the
sanitary sewer system, the water facility system or the operation of the town’s
collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in accordance with the
applicable rates set, as provided in §
50.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   All fees and charges owing for any of these utility services shall be
billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each month.
(Prior Code, § 17-108)
§ 50.05 RATES AND CHARGES SET BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees shall establish rates, charges, deposits and fees for
utility services by ordinance, motion or resolution, as the case may be. A copy
of the current rates and charges shall be available in the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 17-107)
§ 50.06 BILL PAYMENT; UNDUE HARDSHIP ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Bill issuance, payment responsibility. All bills for utility services
shall be rendered monthly and as soon after the meter reading date as
practicable. Reasonable care will be exercised for the delivery of utility
bills. The failure to receive such bills shall not relieve the consumer from
payment of the bills within the prescribed period, nor exempt him or her from
the responsibility imposed for a delinquency of accounts.
   (B)   Full payment required. All charges for utility services shall be due
and payable at the town offices at the time indicated on the bill therefor. All
accounts which become delinquent shall be paid in full, and no partial payments
will be accepted by the town.
   (C)   Adjustments to charges and bills. Authorized agents of the town are
empowered from time to time to make adjustments in the charges for utility
services and in the bills rendered to customers when an investigation by such
persons reveals that the charges are excessive due to legitimate reasons or
causes, such as when, in the judgment of the authorized agents, the full charge
would work an undue and unfair hardship on the consumer, or for any other
reason the agents deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 17-110)
§ 50.07 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; CHARGES AND DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility
bill for any utility service by the due date on the bill, the following actions
and penalties may result.
         (a)   A penalty of all amounts owing on a utility bill is added to any
utility bill which is not paid by the due date of the bill.
         (b)   The authorized agents of the town may disconnect or discontinue
any or all utility services to the customer after mailing or posting written
notice to the customer of the intent of the town to disconnect or discontinue
any or all of the utility services.
         (c)   The authorized agents of the town may discontinue to furnish
water to any customer refusing or neglecting to pay all or any part of a
utility bill submitted after providing written notice to the customer of the
intent of the town to disconnect the water service.
      (2)   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to
this section, then the town and its agents shall not reconnect nor reestablish
the service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is
paid, plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
   (B)   (1)   If a town personnel goes to the premises to shut off the service
and the occupant pays the town personnel prior to his or her shutting off the
service, then there shall be added to the bill a sum for the trip made by the
town personnel to shut off such service.
      (2)   All bills, penalties and fees collected as hereinabove specified
shall be paid over to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Nothing herein shall be
construed as preventing the town from instituting suit for the recovery of any
delinquent accounts.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may not accept payment of a water bill
without payment of the sewer service charge, nor shall the Clerk-Treasurer
accept payment of a sewer bill without payment of the water bill.
      (2)   The failure to pay any utility bill in accordance with divisions
(A) and (B) above shall be grounds for discontinuing any or all of the utility
services furnished to the customer whose bill is delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 17-103) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 RIGHT TO INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The town reserves the right to shut off the supply of water without notice
for repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates or for any other reason, and no
liability shall attach therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 17-104)
§ 50.09 TAMPERING WITH METERS UNLAWFUL.
   Tampering with water meters or meter boxes of the town, or the placing of
any bypass connection on or around the meters, or the use of any other device
tending to interfere with the proper registration of the same, is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-106) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 DAMAGING EQUIPMENT UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to destroy or injure any water
pipe, hydrant, faucet, pole or other sewer or water equipment erected or placed
by or belonging to the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-105) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of the rates and rules of the Town Public Works Authority,
adopted and incorporated by reference in §
50.01 of this chapter and fully applicable as if set out at length therein, are
punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 17-109)
CHAPTER 51: UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
51.01   Security deposit for utility services
   
51.02   Customer service fee for new water service
   
51.03   Water service charges; water tap fees
   
51.04   Sewer hookup requirement; fees
   
51.05   Minimum user charge
   
51.06   User charge schedule
   
51.07   Excessive strength charges
   
51.08   Toxic pollutants charges
   
51.09   Extraneous flows charges
   
51.10   Periodic review and revision
   
51.11   Garbage service charge
§ 51.01 SECURITY DEPOSIT FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   When an applicant makes his or her application for service, he or she shall
make a cash deposit as follows.
   (A)   New service. For residential use by homeowners, for residential use by
renters, for trailer houses or mobile homes on rented lots and for business
uses, for the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the town’s
water, sewer and trash departments, and for other purposes, the Board of
Trustees shall establish rates, charges, deposits and fees for utility services
by motion, resolution or ordinance.
   (B)   Moving or additional accounts.
      (1)   It is not required that a new security deposit be posted in the
event that an applicant moves within the service area of the town.
      (2)   If the applicant for water, sewer or trash service owns a home or
business inside or outside of the town limits for which a deposit is currently
being held by the town and the applicant acquires another home or business
inside the town limits, then the applicant need not pay an additional deposit.
      (3)   If the applicant is building for rental purposes, then the
respective renter or renters shall make a deposit at the time the renter or
renters make an application for service.
(Prior Code, § 17-121) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 1-6-2005)
§ 51.02 CUSTOMER SERVICE FEE FOR NEW WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   When an applicant makes their application for service, in addition to
the security deposit, the applicant shall pay a customer service fee that the
Board of Trustees shall establish. This fee shall be established by motion,
resolution or ordinance. The fee shall be for inside and outside of the town
limits for water service hookups or connections.
   (B)   This fee shall not be refunded. In the event that an applicant moves
within the service area of the town, another customer service fee shall be
required, which fee shall not be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 17-122) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 1-6-2005)
§ 51.03 WATER SERVICE CHARGES; WATER TAP FEES.
   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the water service
of the town, water tap fees and for other purposes, the Board of Trustees shall
establish rates, charges, deposits and fees for utility services by ordinance,
motion or resolution. A schedule of charges for the use of water service to be
levied and collected for the use of water inside and outside of the corporate
or town limits each month. A copy of the current rates and charges shall be
available in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 17-124) (Ord. 2002-02, passed 6-4-2002)
§ 51.04 SEWER HOOKUP REQUIREMENT; FEES.
   (A)   When a public sewer becomes available at the property line of a person
living within the boundaries of the town, the building located on the property
shall be connected to the sewer within 30 days and the septic tank formerly
used shall be disconnected and its use terminated.
   (B)   The owner shall make the connection and pay the fees set by the Board
of Trustees. All rates, charges, deposits or fees shall be established by
ordinance, resolution or motion, as the case may be. A copy of these fees shall
be available in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 17-123) (Ord. 2002-01, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 MINIMUM USER CHARGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the sewer or
wastewater treatment systems of the town, and for other purposes, the Board of
Trustees shall establish rates, charges, deposits and fees for utility services
by ordinance, motion or resolution, as the case may be. A copy of the current
rates and charges shall be available in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   In cases of users of metered water consumption using water from
another water source, such as a rural water district, the metered water
consumption will be determined by using the records of metered water
consumption from the other water source.
   (C)   In cases of users not on a metered basis, the Utility Superintendent
shall establish an estimated water consumption based on a comparison of the
nonmetered user with a metered user of a similar class; for example, a
nonmetered family of four will be compared to a typical family of four with a
water meter to establish water consumption.
(Prior Code, § 17-126) (Ord. 2002-02, passed 6-4-2002)
§ 51.06 USER CHARGE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Formula. As the BOD, suspended solids and other pollutant
concentrations discharged shall be approximately equal for all domestic users,
users shall be charged on a volume basis in accordance with the following
formula.
         Cu = Cb + Ct/Vt (Vu)
   (B)   Symbols and definitions.
      (1)   Cu = A user’s charge per unit of time;
      (2)   Cb = A user’s base minimum charge (for debt retirement, billing,
administration and the like) per unit of time;
      (3)   Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time;
      (4)   Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time (may
include extraneous flows); and
      (5)   Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
(Prior Code, § 17-127)
Editor’s note:
   Based on Model No. 1, 40 C.F.R. part 35, Appendix B.
§ 51.07 EXCESSIVE STRENGTH CHARGES.
   (A)   Formula. For any user, when the BOD exceeds 204 milligrams per liter
(maximum limit for average domestic waste), the suspended solids exceed 240
milligrams per liter (maximum limit for average domestic waste), or when other
pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge shall be added to the basic
charge. This surcharge shall be calculated by the following formula.
         Cs = (Bc(B) + Sc(S) + Pc(P)Vu
   (B)   Symbols and definitions.
      (1)   Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength;
      (2)   Bc = Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs for treatment of a unit
of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD);
      (3)   B = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level;
      (4)   Sc = O&M costs for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS);
      (5)   S = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level;
      (6)   Pc = O&M costs for the treatment of a unit of any pollutant;
      (7)   P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level;
and
      (8)   Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
(Prior Code, § 17-128)
Editor’s note:
   Based on Model No. 2, 40 C.F.R. part 35, Appendix B.
§ 51.08 TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGES.
   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the costs of managing the effluent of the sludge of the treatment works shall
pay for such increased costs.
(Prior Code, § 17-129)
§ 51.09 EXTRANEOUS FLOWS CHARGES.
   The costs of operation and maintenance for all flows not directly
attributable to users, such as infiltration/inflow, shall be distributed among
users on the same basis as operation and maintenance charges.
(Prior Code, § 17-130)
§ 51.10 PERIODIC REVIEW AND REVISION.
   (A)   The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed not less often than every
two years regarding the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the
total costs of the operation and maintenance of the treatment works and its
approved user charge system.
   (B)   The charges for users and user classes shall be revised to accomplish
the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to proper operation and maintenance, including
replacements, for the treatment works; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year;
rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 17-131)
§ 51.11 GARBAGE SERVICE CHARGE.
   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the garbage
service of the town, and for other purposes, the Board of Trustees shall
establish rates, charges, deposits and fees for utility services by ordinance,
motion or resolution, as the case may be. A copy of the current rates and
charges shall be available in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 17-125)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Applying for water mains connections
   
52.02   Connections must comply with ordinance and law
   
52.03   Water meter deposit required
   
52.04   Contracting for water service
   
52.05   Estimating bills with meter issues
Water Shortage Provisions
   
52.20   Declaring an emergency
   
52.21   Water usage restrictions; duration
   
52.22   Proclaiming an emergency; publication
   
52.23   Grievances with water restrictions
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 APPLYING FOR WATER MAINS CONNECTIONS.
   Any person desiring to make a connection to a water main of the town is
required to file a written application with the Town Clerk-Treasurer to make
the connection.
(Prior Code, § 17-201) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 CONNECTIONS MUST COMPLY WITH ORDINANCE AND LAW.
   Any person, firm or corporation that connects to the water mains of the town
in violation of this chapter, other ordinances of the town or the laws of the
state will be denied further water service until such ordinances and laws are
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 17-202) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 WATER METER DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who desires to use water shall put up with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer as a meter deposit the amount which is established.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish classifications of customers, such
as residences, mobile homes and various types of businesses, for different
deposit requirements.
(Prior Code, § 17-203)
§ 52.04 CONTRACTING FOR WATER SERVICE.
   The application for water service shall contain a contract on the part of
the person making the application:
   (A)   To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by ordinance at
the time the water is consumed;
   (B)   To recognize the right of the town to change the rate by ordinance at
any time;
   (C)   To recognize the right of the town to temporarily discontinue water
service at any time without notice to the consumer in order to install, repair
or remove a water meter or for any other proper cause;
   (D)   Stating that the contract is subject to all of the ordinances in
effect at the time of making the contract and to those which may be passed and
go into effect thereafter;
   (E)   Stating that the town shall not be responsible for any damage by water
or other cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and that the
fact that an agent of the town has inspected plumbing or appliances shall not
be pleaded as a basis for recovery in cases of damage to a premises from
defective plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such
premises;
   (F)   Providing that the town shall not be liable for damages resulting from
the interruption or failure of the supply of water regardless of the cause
thereof, and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall not be
held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the town nor relieve the
consumer from performing the obligations of his or her contract; and
   (G)   Providing that the water deposit, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be retained by the town and applied by the town on any unpaid
water bill of the consumer, and providing further that unless the water deposit
is claimed by the consumer after the consumer ceases to use the water or after
the water is turned off, the consumer forfeits all rights, title or interest in
the deposit, in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 17-204)
§ 52.05 ESTIMATING BILLS WITH METER ISSUES.
   (A)   In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost, injured or broken
by willful action or by the carelessness or negligence of owners or occupants
of the premises, they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of the owner
or occupant. In cases of nonpayment, the water shall be cut off and will not be
turned on until such charges are paid.
   (B)   In the event of a meter getting out of order or failing to register
properly, the consumer shall be charged on an estimate made by the Water
Superintendent of the average monthly consumption during the last three months
when the meter was in good condition or from what he or she may consider to be
the most reliable data at his or her command.
(Prior Code, § 17-205)
WATER SHORTAGE PROVISIONS
§ 52.20 DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or a failure of
equipment or material, the Mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit
the use of water from the town’s water system.
   (B)   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor reasonably determines that the
town’s water system is unable, or will within 60 days become unable, to supply
the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including adequate
fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 17-206) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 WATER USAGE RESTRICTIONS; DURATION.
   (A)   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor shall
issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with particularity
an order restricting the use of water from the town’s system. The order may be
revised from time to time as the Mayor deems necessary.
   (B)   The order may:
      (1)   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
      (2)   Prohibit usages not essential to the public health and safety.
   (C)   A duly-proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for 30 days, or until such time as the Mayor
shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the Board votes to terminate the emergency and
proclamation upon a different date by a resolution approved by a majority of
all of its members.
(Prior Code, § 17-207) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 PROCLAIMING AN EMERGENCY; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The proclamation required by §
52.21 of this chapter shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the town, or if there is no such newspaper in which the proclamation may be
published, then within 24 hours after the emergency arises, publication shall
be by posting a copy of the proclamation in ten prominent places in the town.
The emergency shall be in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial
compliance with this section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   (B)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event reduces the availability of
water or water pressure so as to create an immediate threat to the public
health or safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable
means, including by electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and
effect upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in
division (A) above is used, then the proclamation shall be republished in
accordance with division (A) above within 24 hours of the first notice.
(Prior Code, § 17-208)
§ 52.23 GRIEVANCES WITH WATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the Mayor shall have
the right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of the
Town Board of Trustees or to any emergency session called to discuss the water
emergency. The Board of Trustees may exempt such aggrieved person, either
wholly or in part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon a showing
that compliance creates an immediate threat to the person’s health or safety.
   (B)   The ruling of the Board of Trustees by a majority vote of all of its
members shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the
proclamation. Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or revoked
by an action of the Board of Trustees, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 17-209)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates, or who
permits others under his or her supervision, custody or control to violate, any
term of a duly-published proclamation as per §§
52.20 through
52.23 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any violation of the
provisions of the Mayor’s proclamation or an action of the Board shall be
punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 17-210)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   New sewers, sewer lines and connections
   
53.03   Compliance with existing authority
   
53.04   Approving authority requirements
   
53.05   Approving authority review and approval
   
53.06   Power to enter property
   
53.07   Trap requirements
   
53.08   Building sewer requirements
   
53.09   Conducting sampling and testing
   
53.10   Savings clause
   
53.11   Permit conditions
   
53.12   Authority to disconnect service
   
53.13   Notice upon violation; continuing discharges prohibited
Discharge Provisions
   
53.25   Industrial discharges; industrial cost recovery
   
53.26   Permitted discharges
   
53.27   Prohibited discharges
   
53.28   Stormwater and unpolluted drainage
   
53.29   Garbage discharge restrictions
   
53.30   Temperature restrictions
   
53.31   Radioactive waste discharge restrictions
   
53.32   Discharges impairing facilities prohibited
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Minimum user charges, see
Ch. 51
   Periodic review and revision of charges, see
Ch. 51
   Sewer hookup requirements and fees, see
Ch. 51
   Tampering with meters and damaging utility equipment, see
Ch. 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Public Works Authority or its duly-authorized
representative.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen by weight,
expressed in milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory conditions for five days at a
temperature of 20°C.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called a HOUSE LATERAL or HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity
of inorganic and organic matter present in the water or wastewater, expressed
in milligrams per liter, as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical
oxidant in a specific test, but not differentiating between stable and unstable
organic matter, and thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical oxygen
demand.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A manhole giving access to a building sewer at some point
before the building sewer discharge mixes with other discharges in the public
sewer.
   CONTROL POINT. A point of access to a course of discharge before the
discharge mixes with other discharges in the public sewer.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from the preparing, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, processing, storing and selling
of food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade or business from the development of any natural resource,
or any mixture of the waste with water or normal wastewater, or distinct from
normal wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the town sewerage system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER or mg/l. The same as parts per million, and is a
weight-to-volume ratio; the milligram-per-liter value multiplied by the factor
8.34 shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake or other body of
surface water or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater, excluding industrial wastewater,
discharged by a person into sanitary sewers, and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 200 milligrams per
liter and the BOD is not more than 200 milligrams per liter.
   OVERLOAD. The imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment
facility in excess of its engineered design capacity.
   PERSON. A corporation, organization, government or governmental subdivision
or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association or any other
legal entity.
   pH. The logarithm, base ten, of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Pipes or conduits carrying wastewater or unpolluted drainage
of which owners of abutting properties shall have the use, subject to control
by the town.
   SANITARY SEWER. A public sewer which conveys domestic wastewater, industrial
wastes or a combination of both, and into which stormwater, surface water,
groundwater and other unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial wastes which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flow during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as prepared, approved and published jointly
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association
and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A public sewer which carries stormwater, surface water and
drainage, and into which domestic wastewater or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
   STORMWATER. Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent of the town or his
or her duly- authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids, measured in milligrams per liter, which either
float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, wastewater or other
liquids, and which are largely removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   TO DISCHARGE. To deposit, conduct, drain, emit, throw, run, allow to seep or
otherwise release or dispose of, or to allow, permit or suffer any of these
acts or emissions.
   TRAP. A device designed to skim, settle or otherwise remove grease, oil,
sand, flammable wastes or other harmful substances.
   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER. Water containing:
      (1)   No free or emulsified grease or oil;
      (2)   No acids or alkalies;
      (3)   No phenols or other substances producing taste or odor in the
receiving water;
      (4)   No toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or
solution;
      (5)   No noxious or otherwise obnoxious or odorous gases;
      (6)   Not more than an insignificant amount, in milligrams per liter,
each of suspended solids and BOD, as determined by the State Health Department;
and
      (7)   Color not exceeding 50 units as measured by the platinum-cobalt
method of determination as specified in Standard Methods.
   WASTE. Rejected, unutilized or superfluous substances in liquid, gaseous or
solid form resulting from domestic, agricultural or industrial activities.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with
any groundwater, surface water and stormwater which may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any town-owned facilities, devices and
structures used for receiving, processing and treating wastewater, industrial
wastes and sludges from the sanitary sewers.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or human-made channel in which a flow of water
occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 17-301)
§ 53.02 NEW SEWERS, SEWER LINES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   New sewer lines. All new sewer lines will be constructed in accordance
with the State Health Department’s construction and plumbing codes.
(Prior Code, § 17-323)
   (B)   New sewers and connections. The connection of a building sewer into
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the town’s building and
plumbing codes and to other applicable rules and regulations of the town. All
new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the requirements of the State Department of Health’s regulations. When a public
sewer becomes available within 150 feet, the building sewer shall be connected
to the sewer within 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 17-303)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Unless an exception is granted by the approving authority, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
      (1)   Wastewater;
      (2)   Industrial wastes;
      (3)   Polluted liquids; or
      (4)   Unpolluted waters or liquids.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the approving authority, no person may deposit or
discharge any waste included in division (A) above on public or private
property into or adjacent to any:
      (1)   Natural outlet;
      (2)   Watercourse;
      (3)   Storm sewer; or
      (4)   Other area within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   The approving authority shall verify prior to discharge that wastes
authorized to be discharged will receive suitable treatment within the
provisions of the laws, regulations, ordinances, rules and orders of federal,
state and local governments.
(Prior Code, § 17-309) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 APPROVING AUTHORITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If discharges or proposed discharges to public sewers may
deleteriously affect wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, create a hazard to life or health or create a public nuisance, then the
approving authority shall require:
      (1)   Pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public
sewers;
      (2)   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (3)   Payment to cover the cost of handling and treating the wastes.
   (B)   The approving authority is entitled to determine whether a discharge
or proposed discharge is included under division (A) above.
   (C)   The approving authority shall reject wastes when:
      (1)   It determines that a discharge or proposed discharge is included
under division (A) above; and
      (2)   The discharge does not meet the requirements of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 17-310)
§ 53.05 APPROVING AUTHORITY REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, then the approving authority
shall review and approve the design and installation of equipment and
processes.
   (B)   The design and installation of equipment and processes must conform to
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other laws.
   (C)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow
equalizing or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 17-311) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 POWER TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The approving authority and other duly-authorized employees of the
town or of the authority who bear proper credentials and identification are
entitled to enter any public or private property at any reasonable time for the
purpose of enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the establishment’s
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire protection.
   (C)   The approving authority and other duly-authorized employees of the
town or of the authority who bear proper credentials and identification are
entitled to enter all private properties through which the town holds a
negotiated easement for the purposes of:
      (1)   Inspection, observation, measurement, sampling or repair;
      (2)   Maintenance of any portion of the sewerage system lying within the
easements; and
      (3)   Conducting any other authorized activity.
   (D)   All activities shall be conducted in full accordance with the terms of
the negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (E)   No person acting under the authority of this section may inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 17-317) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 TRAP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Discharges requiring a trap include:
      (1)   Grease, or waste containing grease in excessive amounts;
      (2)   Oil;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Flammable wastes; and
      (5)   Other harmful ingredients.
   (B)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring a trap shall, at his
or her own expense and as required by the approving authority:
      (1)   Provide equipment and facilities of a type and capacity approved by
the approving authority;
      (2)   Locate the trap in a manner which provides ready and easy
accessibility for cleaning and inspection; and
      (3)   Maintain the trap in effective operating condition.
(Prior Code, § 17-312) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 BUILDING SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person responsible for discharges through a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall, at his or her own expense and as required by the
approving authority:
   (A)   Install an accessible and safely-located control manhole;
   (B)   Install meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation
sampling and measurement of the waste; and
   (C)   Maintain the equipment and facilities.
(Prior Code, § 17-313) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 CONDUCTING SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling shall be conducted according to customarily-accepted methods,
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and determine the
existence of hazards to health, life, limb and property. The particular
analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite sample from all
falls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken.
      (1)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses will be
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls. Where applicable, 16-hour,
eight-hour or some other period may be required.
      (2)   Periodic grab samples will be used to determine pH.
   (B)   The examination and analysis of the characteristics of waters and
wastes required by this chapter shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with the Standard Methods; and
      (2)   Determined from a suitable sample taken at the control manhole
provided or at another control point authorized by the approving authority.
   (C)   BOD and suspended solids shall be determined from composite sampling,
except to detect unauthorized discharges.
   (D)   The town may select an independent firm or laboratory to determine
flow, BOD and suspended solids.
   (E)   The town is entitled to select the time of sampling at its sole
discretion so long as at least annual samples are taken.
(Prior Code, § 17-314)
§ 53.10 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   A person discharging industrial wastes into public sewers prior to the
effective date of this chapter may continue without penalty so long as he or
she:
   (A)   Does not increase the quantity or quality of discharge without the
permission of the approving authority;
   (B)   Has discharged the industrial waste at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of this chapter; and
   (C)   Applies for and is granted a permit not later than 30 days after the
effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-315) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Continuing discharges. The town may grant a permit to discharge to a
person meeting all requirements of the savings clause, provided that the
person:
      (1)   Submits an application within 90 days after the effective date of
this chapter on a form supplied by the approving authority;
      (2)   Secures approval by the approving authority of plans and
specifications for pretreatment facilities, when required;
      (3)   Provides a sampling point subject to the provisions of this chapter
and the approval of the approving authority; and
      (4)   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or arrangements,
including, but not limited to, provisions for:
         (a)   The payment of charges;
         (b)   The installation and operation of pretreatment facilities; and
         (c)   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength.
   (B)   New discharges. A person applying for a new discharge shall:
      (1)   Meet all conditions of division (A) above; and
      (2)   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste.
(Prior Code, § 17-316)
§ 53.12 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   The town may terminate water and wastewater disposal services and
disconnect an industrial customer from the system when:
      (1)   Acids or chemicals which cause damage to sewer lines or the
treatment process are released to the sewer, causing rapid deterioration of
these structures or interfering with the proper conveyance and treatment of
wastewater;
      (2)   A governmental agency informs the town that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to
the town’s system which cannot be sufficiently treated or which requires
treatment that is not provided by the town as normal domestic treatment; or
      (3)   The industrial customer:
         (a)   Discharges industrial waste or wastewater which is in violation
of the permit issued by the approving authority;
         (b)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
         (c)   Fails to pay the monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer
services when due; or
         (d)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
   (B)   If service is discontinued pursuant to division (A)(2) above, then the
town shall:
      (1)   Disconnect the customer;
      (2)   Supply the customer with the governmental agency’s report and
provide the customer with all pertinent information; and
      (3)   Continue the disconnection until such time as the industrial
customer provides additional pretreatment or other facilities designed to
remove the objectionable characteristics from his or her industrial waste or
complies with the town’s payment procedures.
(Prior Code, § 17-318) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 NOTICE UPON VIOLATION; CONTINUING DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notice issuance. The town shall serve persons discharging in violation
of this chapter with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory compliance.
(Prior Code, § 17-319)
   (B)   Continuation prohibited. No person may continue discharging in
violation of this chapter beyond the time limit provided in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 17-320)
Penalty, see §
53.99
DISCHARGE PROVISIONS
§ 53.25 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES; INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Discharges prohibited. All industrial discharges are prohibited. If an
industrial user should desire to make use of the sewerage system, then an
industrial cost recovery system will be initiated in accordance with the
regulations at that time to compensate for the use of the system.
(Prior Code, § 17-302)
   (B)   Cost recovery system. An industrial cost recovery system will be
developed in accordance with federal requirements if an industry is located in
the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-324)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.26 PERMITTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   All discharges shall conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All discharges shall be prohibited except for those which meet the
criteria for “domestic wastewater.” The BOD concentration shall not exceed 204
milligrams per liter, and suspended solids shall not exceed 240 milligrams per
liter.
   (C)   All waste, wastewater and other substances containing phenols,
hydrogen, sulfide or other taste- and odor-producing substances shall conform
to the concentration limits established by the approving authority. After
treatment of the composite wastewater, the concentration limits may not exceed
the requirements established by state, federal or other agencies with
jurisdiction over discharges to receiving waters.
   (D)   The maximum allowable concentrations of heavy metals stated in terms
of milligrams per liter, determined on the basis of individual sampling in
accordance with the Standard Methods, are as follows.
Heavy Metal Concentration
Heavy Metal      Concentration
Arsenic          0.05 mg/l
Barium           5.0 mg/l
Boron            1.0 mg/l
Cadmium          0.02 mg/l
Chromium (total) 5.0 mg/l
Copper           1.0 mg/l
Lead             0.1 mg/l
Manganese        1.0 mg/l
Mercury          0.005 mg/l
Nickel           1.0 mg/l
Selenium         0.02 mg/l
Silver           0.1 mg/l
Zinc             5.0 mg/l
 
   (E)   No other heavy metals or toxic materials may be discharged into public
sewers without a permit from the approving authority specifying the conditions
of pretreatment, concentration volumes and other applicable provisions.
(Prior Code, § 17-302) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.27 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater plant
effluent.
   (B)   Any new connection from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer portion
of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
   (C)   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
      (1)   Cyanide greater than 1.0 milligrams per liter;
      (2)   Fluoride, other than that contained in the public water supply;
      (3)   Chlorides in concentrations greater than 250 milligrams per liter;
      (4)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquids, solids or gases; or
      (5)   Substances causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand (COD).
   (D)   No waste or wastewater discharged to public waters may contain:
      (1)   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating
solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (2)   Fats, waxes, greases or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess
of 100 milligrams per liter or containing substances which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F, or 0°C and 65°C;
      (3)   Objectionable or toxic substances exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement to such a degree that any such material received in the composite
wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by
the approving authority for such materials; or
      (4)   Obnoxious, toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
quantities sufficient to violate the provisions of division (A) above.
   (E)   No waste, wastewater or other substance may be discharged into public
sewers which has a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5, or any other corrosive
property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment or
personnel at the wastewater facilities.
   (F)   No discharges may contain concentrations of heavy metals greater than
the amounts specified in §
53.26(D) of this chapter.
   (G)   Prohibited heavy metals and toxic materials include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Antimony;
      (2)   Beryllium;
      (3)   Bismuth;
      (4)   Cobalt;
      (5)   Molybdenum;
      (6)   Rhenium;
      (7)   Strontium;
      (8)   Tellurium;
      (9)   Tin;
      (10)   Uranyl ion;
      (11)   Herbicides;
      (12)   Fungicides; and
      (13)   Pesticides.
(Prior Code, § 17-302) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.28 STORMWATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   No person may discharge to public sanitary sewers:
   (A)   Unpolluted stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff or
subsurface drainage;
   (B)   Unpolluted cooling water;
   (C)   Unpolluted industrial process waters; or
   (D)   Other unpolluted drainage.
(Prior Code, § 17-305) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.29 GARBAGE DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person may discharge garbage into public sewers unless it is
shredded to such a degree that all particles can be carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in the public sewers. Particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension are prohibited.
   (B)   The approving authority is entitled to review and approve the
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower or greater.
(Prior Code, § 17-304) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.30 TEMPERATURE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person may discharge liquid or vapor having a temperature of 150°F,
65°C, or any substance which causes the temperature of the total wastewater
treatment plant influent to increase at a rate of 10°F or more per hour or a
combined total increase of plant influent temperature to 100°F.
   (B)   In compliance with state law, the approving authority may designate
storm sewers and other watercourses into which unpolluted drainage described in
division (A) above may be discharged.
(Prior Code, § 17-306) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.31 RADIOACTIVE WASTE DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   No person may discharge radioactive wastes or isotopes into the public
sewers without the permission of the approving authority. The approving
authority may establish, in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations, regulations for the discharge of radioactive wastes into public
sewers.
(Prior Code, § 17-307) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.32 DISCHARGES IMPAIRING FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substances capable of
causing:
      (1)   Obstruction of the flow in sewers;
      (2)   Interference with the operation of treatment plant processes or
facilities; or
      (3)   Excessive loading of the treatment facilities.
   (B)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substances which may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner so as to
clog or partially clog the sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease-handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass to receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes due to nonamenability of the substance to
bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (C)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance which is:
      (1)   Not amenable to treatment by the processes and facilities employed;
or
      (2)   Amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharges to receiving waters.
   (D)   Prohibited discharges include, but are not limited to, materials which
exert or cause concentrations of:
      (1)   Inert suspended solids greater than 250 milligrams per liter,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Fuller’s earth;
         (b)   Lime slurries; and
         (c)   Lime residues.
      (2)   Dissolved solids greater than 500 milligrams per liter, including,
but not limited to:
         (a)   Sodium chloride; and
         (b)   Sodium sulfate.
      (3)   Excessive discoloration, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Dye wastes; or
         (b)   Vegetable tanning solutions.
      (4)   BOD, COD or chlorine demands in excess of normal plant capacity.
   (E)   The approving authority shall regulate the flow for the concentration
of slugs when they may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the waste unfit for stream disposal or industrial use.
   (F)   No person may discharge into public sewers solid or viscous substances
which may violate division (A) above if present in sufficient quantity or size,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Ashes;
      (2)   Cinders;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Mud;
      (5)   Straw;
      (6)   Shavings;
      (7)   Metal;
      (8)   Glass;
      (9)   Rags;
      (10)   Feathers;
      (11)   Tar;
      (12)   Plastics;
      (13)   Wood;
      (14)   Unground garbage;
      (15)   Whole blood;
      (16)   Paunch manure;
      (17)   Hair and fleshings;
      (18)   Entrails;
      (19)   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (20)   Slops;
      (21)   Chemical residues;
      (22)   Paint residues; or
      (23)   Bulk solids.
(Prior Code, § 17-308) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person who continues prohibited discharges may be subject to
termination of water and sewer services. In addition to proceeding under the
authority of division (A) above, the town is entitled to pursue all other legal
remedies to which it is entitled, including a fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 17-321)
   (C)   In addition to the sanctions provided for by this chapter, the town is
entitled to exercise sanctions provided for by the other ordinances of the town
for failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer service when due.
(Prior Code, § 17-322)
CHAPTER 54: REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Duty to request garbage service
   
54.03   Fees
   
54.04   Authority to inspect
   
54.05   Disposal of trash and refuse; accumulation prohibited
   
54.06   Containers for garbage and refuse
   
54.07   Location for dumping garbage and refuse
   
54.08   Garbage removal permissions determined by Board of Trustees
   
54.09   Contracting to collect or dispose; hearings
   
54.10   Hauling garbage requirements
   
54.11   Junkyards and scrap metal processing prohibited
 
   
54.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Garbage service charge, see
Ch. 51
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
   GARBAGE. Every accumulation of animal matter, vegetable matter or both; that
is, the refuse matter from kitchens, pantries, dining rooms or other parts of
hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, apartment houses, dwelling houses, market
houses and public institutions, and all animal refuse or matter from butcher
shops and refuse from poultry stores and fish stores.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris or waste, or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles or parts
thereof, or iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated or used for the storing, keeping, buying or selling of junk or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, and the term shall include
garbage dumps and sanitary fills.
   REFUSE AND RUBBISH. Ashes, cinders, paper, broken wares, discarded bottles,
tin cans, shoes and such refuse as may be termed the natural accumulation of
resident families, or of stores, filling stations, institutions or other places
where such things may accumulate.
   SCRAP METAL PROCESSING FACILITY. An establishment having facilities used
primarily for processing iron, steel or nonferrous metals and whose principal
produce is such iron, steel or scrap for sale for remelting purposes only, the
processor being considered a manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 17-401)
§ 54.02 DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE.
   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the town, it is the duty
of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located within the town to notify the town at the beginning of such occupancy
and to request, accept and use the garbage pickup and collection service
provided by the town or its contractor, provided, however, that the failure of
any owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to make such request shall
not prevent nor in any way impair or impede the town from adding the address of
such premises to the proper garbage collection route records and providing such
service, or from otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory
measures.
(Prior Code, § 17-411) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-9-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 FEES.
   There may be charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 17-410)
§ 54.04 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   The town may make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and
all premises to see that the terms of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 17-409)
§ 54.05 DISPOSAL OF TRASH AND REFUSE; ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and cited as the “Town of
Calera Disposal of Trash or Refuse Ordinance.”
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to control and regulate the
disposal of trash or refuse within the town and to provide rules and guidelines
to facilitate the enforcement thereof.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      REFUSE. Any type of accumulation of worn out, used up, broken, rejected
or worthless materials.
      TRASH. Any debris, rubble, stone, fragments of building materials,
mattresses, furniture, appliances or any other materials which are unwanted.
   (D)   Regulations.
      (1)   The owner or occupant of a residential unit shall not permit the
accumulation of trash and refuse upon any premises under his or her control for
a period of more than ten days.
      (2)   Any trash or refuse not accepted for collection shall be removed
from the roadside within 24 hours of the regularly-scheduled collection day.
      (3)   The town, upon initial contact by the owner or occupant of a
residential unit, will schedule an extra haul-off of any trash or refuse not
accepted for collection on a regularly-scheduled collection day at the base
rate of $50, plus the cost of landfill fees.
      (4)   The owner or occupant of a residential unit shall clean up and
remove from the roadside and premises any trash or refuse resulting from the
breakage or opening of any garbage bag or other container used for trash and
refuse collection disposal within 24 hours after the same has been scattered.
(Prior Code, § 17-402) (Ord. 2016-04, passed 3-8-2016) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06 CONTAINERS FOR GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Containers Required; Maintenance:
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, every person owning,
managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises or any place where
garbage or rubbish accumulates, shall provide and at all times maintain in good
order and repair, on any such premises, a town provided poly cart, which shall
be used for the trash collection trucks and shall not be removed from the
premises.
      (2)   Any poly cart that does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter or that may have ragged or sharp edges or any other defect liable to
hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof shall be replaced
with no cost to the resident.
      (3)   Any poly cart that is not distributed by the Town of Calera or its
contractor will not be collected.
      (4)   Any additional garbage or rubbish placed at the street or curb line
for removal by the town, shall be contained items (boxed or bagged) on a non-
regular basis. Any person placing loose items for disposal at the curb line or
street for collection is in violation this chapter. Additional trash collection
fees will apply if the town or its duly authorized agent is requested to return
prior to the next regularly scheduled pick up day. As established by the town
board.
      (5)   The town shall have the authority to refuse collection services for
failure to comply with this chapter.
      (6)   If the poly cart is damaged, and the resident is determined to be
at fault, the replacement cost of the poly cart will be billed to the resident.
   (B)   Size; Cleanliness:
      (1)   All poly cart containers shall be kept clean and free from
accumulation of any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container
which would attract or breed flies, mosquitoes, or any other biting and/or
stinging insects.
   (C)   Businesses, Mobile Home Parks:
      (1)   Unless otherwise exempted by the public works department, business,
industrial, institutional, and mobile home parks shall utilize containers
provided by the town and shall be of sufficient capacity and/or quantity to
fully contain all refuse accumulated between collection periods.
      (2)   All covers or doors shall be kept closed except when depositing
refuse in the container.
      (3)   Every person utilizing containers provided by the Town shall have a
duty to regularly inspect, secure and correct defects in the container which
may be its form, use or location if such location can reasonably cause injury
or damage to any person or property. Defects in any container that
cannot be corrected by a user must be reported in writing to the Public Works
Department.
      (4)   The town shall not be liable for any damage or injury to any person
or property based on any users' failure to inspect, secure, or repair or report
defects in any container.
   (D)   Multi-Family Dwellings:
      (1)   The type of trash service available at multi-family dwellings shall
be determined by the Public Works Director of the Town of Calera. If it is
determined by the Public Works Director that there are safe locations for poly
carts and poly cart services are available, they will be provided and billed.
If it is determined that dumpster services are safer and more advantageous,
they will be provided and billed to the landlord.
      (2)   All lids or doors to refuse containers, whether poly carts or
dumpsters, shall be kept closed except when depositing refuse in the container.
      (3)   Every person utilizing containers provided by the Town shall have a
duty to regularly inspect, secure and correct defects in the container which
may be its form, use or location if such location can reasonably cause injury
or damage to any person or property. Defects in any container that cannot be
corrected by a user must be reported in writing to the Public Works Department.
      (4)   The Town shall not be liable for any damage or injury to any person
or property based on any users' failure to inspect, secure, or report defects
in any container.
   (E)   Residential and Commercial Dumpsters and Roll-Offs:
      (1)   The Town, shall be the sole provider for roll-off containers within
the Town unless the town is unable to provide one, it's contractor shall
provide one. All requests made for roll offs in the town shall be communicated
through town hall.
      (2)   Dumpsters shall be filled with only household items.
      (3)   Roll Offs shall be filled with only household items, construction
items, small branches, and small trees less than 6" in diameter.
      (4)   Roll Offs shall not be filled over the top rail and shall not hang
over the sides.
      (5)   Dirt, sand, rocks, asphalt, and concrete are prohibited.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or otherwise
interfere with the use of any refuse container, publicly or privately owned,
within the town. No containers may be removed or relocated without permission
of the Public Works Director or his designees.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any refuse dumpster or
roll-off not owned by the town or its contractor.
   (F)   Penalty:
      (1)   A person who violates this ordinance shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of $215.00. Each
day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 17-403) (Ord. 2021-12, passed 12-9-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-08, 11-
10-2022) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 LOCATION FOR DUMPING GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   Garbage, refuse and rubbish shall be removed from all premises and dumped
only in the area designated by the Board of Trustees as the town’s dump.
(Prior Code, § 17-404) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 GARBAGE REMOVAL PERMISSIONS DETERMINED BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may contract with some suitable person, firm or
corporation for the removal of any garbage, refuse or rubbish on such terms and
conditions as it shall deem to be for the best interest of the town, including
the requirement of a bond conditioned on the faithful performance of the
contract.
   (B)   The Board, in its discretion, may also provide for the removal of all
such garbage, waste, refuse and rubbish by town employees, or it may require
all owners, occupants or other persons in charge of premises within the
corporate limits to remove garbage, refuse or rubbish from such premises.
(Prior Code, § 17-405)
§ 54.09 CONTRACTING TO COLLECT OR DISPOSE; HEARINGS.
   (A)   The town shall have the authority to enter into contractual
obligations with those who wish to engage in the business of refuse collection
or refuse disposal for compensation in the town. The town shall be limited to
contracting for such service only with persons having the proper equipment,
meeting State Department of Health requirements and having sufficient personnel
to collect and dispose of refuse in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and provided further that the method of disposal contracted for must
be in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Every person desiring to engage in the collection and disposal of
refuse shall have the right to make written application to the town, and shall
make written application setting forth the name of such person, the residence
address thereof or the address of the place of business, a description of the
equipment to be used in the collection or disposal of such refuse, the place of
disposal and the method of disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of the
applications, all bids may be considered at some time prior to the expiration
of the then-existing contract, if any.
   (C)   Any person whose application has been denied may request and shall be
granted a hearing before the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person who does not do so under a contract with
the town to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for
compensation in the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-408) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.10 HAULING GARBAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   All garbage, refuse and rubbish shall be hauled in containers constructed so
as to prevent any portion of such garbage, refuse or rubbish from leaking,
spilling, falling or blowing out of the container.
(Prior Code, § 17-406)
§ 54.11 JUNKYARDS AND SCRAP METAL PROCESSING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish, operate or maintain a junkyard or scrap metal
processing facility within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-407) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 17-412)
   (B)   (1)   Violations. Any person or entity that violates the prohibitions
contained in §
54.05 of this chapter shall be considered as violating §
54.05 of this chapter, and shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter
provided.
      (2)   Penalties.
         (a)   Any person or entity violating the provisions of §
54.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a fine of $200 for each such
occurrence.
         (b)   If the $200 fine is not paid within 30 days, then the town will
have the option to disconnect the utility services, to place a lien on the
property with the County Clerk or to perform both options, at the town’s
discretion, until the fine and any additional fees incurred are paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 17-402)
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 3-8-2016)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
72.   VEHICLE OPERATION
      
73.   PARKING
      
74.   VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
      
75.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
76.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Scope of application
   
70.03   State traffic codes adopted
   
70.04   Insurance or certificate required
   
70.05   General equipment requirements
   
70.06   Size and weight restrictions
   
70.07   Unmuffled dynamic breaking devices prohibited; exception
   
70.08   Securing loads required; exceptions
   
70.09   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
70.10   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.11   Unlawful manner of riding
   
70.12   Pushcarts, animals and animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.13   Authorizing or permitting violations prohibited
   
70.14   Work conducted on streets, requirements and exceptions
   
70.15   Authorized emergency vehicles, duties
   
70.16   Drivers approached by authorized emergency vehicle, duties
   
70.17   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
70.18   Crossing a fire hose restricted
   
70.19   Accidents; driver’s duty to stop, assist and report
Administration
   
70.30   Duty of the Police and Fire Departments
   
70.31   Eluding police officers prohibited
   
70.32   Inspection of vehicles by officers
   
70.33   Issuance of citation tags
   
70.34   Disposition and record of citations, warrants and complaints
   
70.35   Court records; abstracts sent to state
   
70.36   Failure to obey citations
   
70.37   Failure to comply with citations attached to a parked vehicle
   
70.38   Illegal cancellation of citations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For any words and phrases used in this traffic code which are not
defined in this section but are defined in the laws of the state regulating
traffic, the definitions in the laws of the state shall be deemed to apply to
the words and phrases used in this traffic code.
   (B)   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. A public passageway or street which affords only a secondary means
of vehicular access to abutting property and has no legal or official name
other than alley.
      BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride which has two or three tandem wheels, any of which is more than 20 inches
in diameter.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
      CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb which is reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or
materials.
      DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police vehicles and
ambulances.
      INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately
at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come into conflict.
      LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly-marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
which is not operated upon rails.
      MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of
the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they
shall mean standard time or daylight saving time, as may be in current use in
the town.
      OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and
devices not inconsistent with this code which are placed or erected by the
authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
      PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
      PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
      POLICE OFFICER. Any officer of the Town Police Department or any other
officer authorized by law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
      PRIVATE ROAD or ROADWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
      RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
      RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, or electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto which is operated upon rails, excepting
streetcars.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event that a
street includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
      STOP.
         (a)   When required, STOP or STOPPING means a complete cessation from
movement.
         (b)   When prohibited, STOP or STOPPING means any halting, even
momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for the purpose of vehicular travel.
      THROUGH STREET. Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular
traffic is given preferential right-of-way and at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield the
right-of-way to vehicles on such THROUGH STREET in obedience to, when such
signs are erected as provided in this traffic code, either a stop sign or a
yield sign.
      TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
      TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 15-101)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, state traffic laws, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
§ 70.02 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to every street, highway,
alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area and every other public way,
either within or outside of the corporate limits of the town, the use of which
the town has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited
to:
   (A)   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
   (B)   Those upon land owned by the town;
   (C)   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and
   (D)   Those upon private property, but the regulation of the use of which
has been given to the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-102)
§ 70.03 STATE TRAFFIC CODES ADOPTED.
   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
and the Rules of the Road, 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference and are enforceable by the town within the
town limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-126)
§ 70.04 INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in the state as found in 47
O.S. Art. VI, Ch. 7 and 47 O.S. § 7-606.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance which
shall insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him
or her by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of
any motor vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of
liability required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein, and shall insure any
other person, except as provided in division (c) below, who is using an insured
vehicle with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against
loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing law; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of the
limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or
bond; or
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of the limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as
acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form approved by the State Board for
Property and Casualty Rates verifying the existence of the security required by
the State Compulsory Insurance Law, being 47 O.S. §§ 600 et seq.
   (B)   Form to show liability coverage. Every operator of a motor vehicle
registered in the state shall carry either an operator’s or an owner’s security
verification form issued by a carrier while operating or using such vehicle
within the town’s boundaries, provided that the operator is not excluded from
coverage thereon, or an equivalent form issued by the Department of Public
Safety reflecting liability coverage.
   (C)   Form to be shown upon request. The owner of a motor vehicle registered
in the state and operating the vehicle within the town’s boundaries shall carry
in such vehicle at all times a current owner’s security verification form
listing the vehicle, or an equivalent form which has been used by the State
Department of Public Safety, which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon
request for inspection by any law enforcement officer, and in the case of a
collision, the form shall be shown upon request to any person affected by the
collision.
   (D)   Exceptions. The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or
operator’s security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department
during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such
form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government or
by any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law, being 47 O.S. §§ 600 et seq., according to the
records of the Department of Public Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-
insurance or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; or
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
(Prior Code, § 15-127) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 GENERAL EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped as
required by law;
   (B)   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it
in a manner prohibited by law; or
   (C)   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a street
in the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Equipment of vehicles, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-101 et seq.
§ 70.06 SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall drive on or convey through any street any
vehicle the width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that
authorized by state law, except in accordance with a permit issued by state
authority or by the Police Chief.
   (B)   Over five tons. No vehicle or truck weighing in excess of five tons
may be parked upon public streets, easements, alleys or sidewalks in any
residential area of the town.
   (C)   Over ten tons. No vehicle weighing more than ten tons shall be
operated upon the streets, alleys and other public ways within the town, except
for on state highways.
(Prior Code, § 15-104) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Size, weight and load of vehicles, see 47 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§ 70.07 UNMUFFLED DYNAMIC BREAKING DEVICES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE. Commonly referred to as a JAKE BRAKE, JACOBS
BRAKE, ENGINE BRAKE or COMPRESSION BRAKE, a device on a motor vehicle,
primarily on trucks, for the conversion of the engine from an internal
combustion engine to an air compressor for the purposes of braking without the
use of wheel brakes.
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor
vehicle with an unmuffled dynamic braking device engaged within the town limits
of the town except for the purpose of avoiding imminent danger or in cases of
wheel brake failure.
   (C)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-128) (Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-11-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SECURING LOADS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is constructed or loaded so as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the street or alley.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products, excepting baled agricultural products, but
any such truck shall be constructed or loaded so as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 15-107) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1105
§ 70.10 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 15-108) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 UNLAWFUL MANNER OF RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This section shall not apply to an employee
engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, nor to persons riding within
truck bodies in a space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 PUSHCARTS, ANIMALS AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle except
for those provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have
no application.
(Prior Code, § 15-111) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-104
§ 70.13 AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him or her,
registered in his or her name or under his or her control to be driven, parked
or stopped in violation of any provision of this traffic code. No parent of any
child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit such
child or ward to violate any provision of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 WORK CONDUCTED ON STREETS, REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Town employees or contractors repairing or improving the streets of
the town and utility company personnel installing, improving or repairing lines
or other utility facilities in the streets are hereby authorized as necessary,
subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close any street or section
thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or construction. In
exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or contractors shall erect
or cause to be erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify
the public that the street has been closed to traffic.
   (B)   (1)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions
of division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been
erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under,
over or around the traffic-control devices or barricades or to otherwise enter
the closed area.
      (2)   The provisions of division (B)(1) above shall not apply to persons
while engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair or to persons
entering therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their
places of residence or places of business within the closed area may travel,
when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel or
contractors concerned shall erect or cause to be erected traffic-control
devices to warn and guide the public. Every person using the street shall obey
all signs, signals, markings, flagpersons or other traffic-control devices
which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code, § 15-112) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES, DUTIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code shall not apply to the driver of
an authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call, when in
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to,
but not upon returning from, a fire alarm.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such section protect the driver from the consequences of his or her
reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of the vehicle sounds an audible signal by bell,
siren or exhaust whistle, as may be reasonably necessary, while in motion, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15-113)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-106
§ 70.16 DRIVERS APPROACHED BY AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE, DUTIES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of the state,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal
only, the driver of every other vehicle shall, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer:
   (A)   Yield the right-of-way;
   (B)   Immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible
to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection; and
   (C)   Stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency
vehicle has passed.
(Prior Code, § 15-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-405
§ 70.17 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow closer than 500 feet to any fire apparatus traveling in response to a
fire alarm nor drive into or park such vehicle within the block where a fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 15-115) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1108(a)
§ 70.18 CROSSING A FIRE HOSE RESTRICTED.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the fire department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 15-116) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1109
§ 70.19 ACCIDENTS; DRIVER’S DUTY TO STOP, ASSIST AND REPORT.
   (A)   Stopping, informing and aiding. The driver of any vehicle involved in
an accident resulting in injury to or the death of any person or damage to any
vehicle or property shall immediately stop his or her vehicle at the scene of
such accident, or as close thereto as possible, and return to and remain at the
scene of the accident until he or she has given his or her name and address and
the registration of his or her vehicle, and upon request, shall exhibit his or
her driver’s license to the person injured or to the driver or occupant of, or
the person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render to any person
injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying of or
the making of arrangements for the carrying of such person to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary or if such is requested by the injured person. Each
such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Reporting to police. The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident resulting in bodily injury to or the death of any
person, or in which it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the
property is in excess of $300, shall report such accident to a police officer
or to the Police Department as soon as practicable. If a driver makes out a
written report of the accident in the office of the Police Department as soon
as practicable after the accident, which report to be forwarded to the State
Department of Public Safety in accordance with state law, then the driver shall
be deemed to be in compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-118) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident reports, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.30 DUTY OF THE POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall have the power to enforce the street
traffic regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic in the town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or may assist the police in directing traffic there or in
the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 15-117)
§ 70.31 ELUDING POLICE OFFICERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL. A red light and a siren from a law enforcement
officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, sheriff or highway patrol car.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a
visual or audible signal directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to
a stop shall willfully increase his or her speed, extinguish his or her lights
or in any other manner attempt to or actually elude such law enforcement
officer.
(Prior Code, § 15-125) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS.
   Police officers have the authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair.
(Prior Code, § 15-106)
§ 70.33 ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS.
   (A)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this traffic code.
   (B)   Notice may be given by delivering the tag to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   (C)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and present such
tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon. Each
tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into custody.
   (E)   The Town Board of Trustees may require that police officers use
citation tags furnished by the Finance Department and that such tags be
serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(Prior Code, § 15-119)
§ 70.34 DISPOSITION AND RECORD OF CITATIONS, WARRANTS AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of the state or any traffic
law of the town, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the Municipal Court. Upon the filing of the
original citation in the Municipal Court, the citation may be disposed of only
by trial in the Court or by other official action by a Judge of the Court,
including by forfeiture of bail or by payment of a fine.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by the
Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for service and of
the final disposition of the warrants.
   (C)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation, or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint or
warrant in a manner other than as required in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-123) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACTS SENT TO STATE.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the Court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the Court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail and judgment of acquittal and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture. Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this traffic code or other
law regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or
clerk of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the court’s record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   (B)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of the hearing, the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 15-124)
§ 70.36 FAILURE TO OBEY CITATIONS.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his or her written
promise to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation,
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the citation was
originally issued.
(Prior Code, § 15-120) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CITATIONS ATTACHED TO A PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking
under the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five days, then the
Clerk of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to
which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him or her of the
violation and warning him or her that in the event that such letter is
disregarded for a period of five days, a warrant of arrest may be issued.
   (B)   On any occasion where two or more such traffic citations have been
affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 15-121)
§ 70.38 ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF CITATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cancel or to solicit the cancellation of
any traffic citation in any manner other than as provided by this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-122) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of the provisions of this traffic code shall be
punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 15-601)
   (B)   (1)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid
and current security verification form or an equivalent form which has been
issued by the Department upon the request of any peace officer of the
Department as per §
70.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction,
shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for any violation of §
70.04 of this chapter may be suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the
Court.
      (3)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or an equivalent form which has been issued by the Department
reflecting the liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to the dismissal of such charge.
      (4)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten days reflecting the action taken by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 15-127)
   (C)   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of §
70.19 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 15-118)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
71.01   Driving within traffic lanes
   
71.02   One-way streets or alleys
   
71.03   Through streets
   
71.04   Obedience to control devices required
   
71.05   Presuming control device legality
   
71.06   Ratifying existing control devices
   
71.07   Enforcement, necessity of control devices
   
71.08   Stop sign procedures
   
71.09   Yield sign procedures
   
71.10   Railroad crossings, required stop
   
71.11   Traffic-control signal legend
   
71.12   Flashing red or yellow signals
   
71.13   Interference with devices, signals or signs
§ 71.01 DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or to refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except for when lawfully passing another vehicle,
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly-marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as practicable, entirely
within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has
first ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except for when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where
such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use
a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 15-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-309
§ 71.02 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the town designates any
one-way street or alley, the appropriate town personnel shall place and
maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless the signs are in place.
      (2)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where the movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 15-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-308 and 15-102(a)
§ 71.03 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may designate any
street or part of a street a through street.
(Prior Code, § 15-310)
   (B)   Whenever a through street is designated by the Board of Trustees, the
appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign
or, on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any
intersection, a yield sign on each and every street intersecting such through
street unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals.
(Prior Code, § 15-311)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate through streets, see 47 O.S. § 15-108
§ 71.04 OBEDIENCE TO CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(a)
§ 71.05 PRESUMING CONTROL DEVICE LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in positions
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 15-304)
§ 71.06 RATIFYING EXISTING CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this traffic code and in use for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and
declared to be official traffic-control devices, provided that such traffic-
control devices are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or
state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-305)
§ 71.07 ENFORCEMENT, NECESSITY OF CONTROL DEVICES.
   No provision of this traffic code for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible so as to be seen by an ordinarily-observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices
are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 15-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(b)
§ 71.08 STOP SIGN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly- marked stop line, or if there is none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street so as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver, having so yielded, may proceed, and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 15-312)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-403(b) and 11-703(d)
§ 71.09 YIELD SIGN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop
at a clearly-marked stop line, or if there is no stop line, then at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway.
   (B)   The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving and
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely
so as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver, having so yielded, may
proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding.
   (C)   However, if such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian
in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign
without stopping, then such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of
his or her failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 15-313)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-403(c) and 11-703(c)
§ 71.10 RAILROAD CROSSINGS, REQUIRED STOP.
   (A)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing
in the town, the driver of such vehicle shall bring such vehicle to a stop not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad track. While so
stopped, the driver shall both look and listen in both directions along such
track for approaching railway traffic, and the driver shall not proceed until
he or she can do so safely.
   (B)   The requirements of division (A) above shall apply when:
      (1)   A train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the grade
crossing emits an signal audible from such distance, and such train, by reason
of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate hazard;
      (2)   An approaching train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing; or
      (3)   A stop sign has been erected at any such crossing.
(Prior Code, § 15-314) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall
indicate the appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as provided by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-306)
§ 71.12 FLASHING RED OR YELLOW SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated, flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red stop signals. When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid, intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line, when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection. The right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow caution signals. When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid, intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 15-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-204
§ 71.13 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, SIGNALS OR SIGNS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any
other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-207
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Operation generally
   
72.02   Driver’s license required
   
72.03   Vehicle license required
   
72.04   Displaying inspection sticker
   
72.05   Seat belt requirements; exceptions
   
72.06   Child passenger restraint requirements; exceptions
   
72.07   Starting a parked vehicle
   
72.08   Backing up a vehicle
   
72.09   Emerging from alleys, driveways or buildings
   
72.10   Driving on the right side of roadways; exceptions
   
72.11   Driving on sidewalks
   
72.12   Right-of-way generally
   
72.13   Vehicle turning left
Speed
   
72.25   Rules for speed regulation generally
   
72.26   Maximum speed limit generally
Turning and Signaling
   
72.40   Intersections, required turning position and method
   
72.41   Restricted turning and U-turns
   
72.42   Signal requirements for turning or stopping
Prohibitions
   
72.55   Corner-cutting
   
72.56   Unlicensed vehicle operation
   
72.57   Reckless driving
   
72.58   Impaired driving or driving under the influence
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, the rights of pedestrians
and the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-201) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   State Rules of the Road, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq.
§ 72.02 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver’s license, as
required by state law for the operation of a vehicle upon the state highways,
to operate a motor vehicle within the town or to operate a motor vehicle within
the town in violation of any restriction applied to the driver’s license.
(Prior Code, § 15-202) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s licenses, see 47 O.S. §§ 6-101 et seq.
§ 72.03 VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive, propel, move or park on the streets of the town any
motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless the motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 15-203) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 DISPLAYING INSPECTION STICKER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on the streets of the town which does not
have displayed thereon an official inspection sticker.
(Prior Code, § 15-205) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 SEAT BELT REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      PASSENGER CAR. Shall mean AUTOMOBILE as defined in 47 O.S. § 22.1, except
that PASSENGER CAR shall not include trucks, pickup trucks, truck-tractors,
recreational vehicles, vans, motorcycles or motorized bicycles.
   (B)   Requirements. Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger
car operated in the town shall wear a properly-adjusted and fastened safety
seat belt system, as required to be installed in a motor vehicle when
manufactured pursuant to the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
(F.M.V.S.S.) 208.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B) above shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in the state that he or she is unable to
wear a safety seat belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such
verification by a physician in good faith shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever, in damages or
otherwise, to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety
seat belt system.
      (2)   Division (B) above shall not apply to an operator of a motor
vehicle who is a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
(Prior Code, § 15-216) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM. An infant or child passenger restraint
system which meets the federal standards for crash-tested restraint systems as
set by the United States Department of Transportation.
   (B)   Requirements. Every driver, when transporting a child under four years
of age in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets or highways of the
town, shall provide for the protection of such child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system or a properly-secured seat belt in the rear seat of
the motor vehicle. Children four or five years of age shall be protected by the
use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A nonresident driver transporting a child in the state;
      (2)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      (4)   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are
in use; and
      (5)   The transportation of children who, for medical reasons, are unable
to be placed in such devices.
   (D)   Enforcement and violations.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if
it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
section in order to give an oral warning to the driver. The warning shall
advise the driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure
to install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat belt in a motor
vehicle.
      (2)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall not be
subject to any criminal penalty. A violation of the provisions of this section
shall not be admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for
damages. In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in the aggravation or mitigation
of damages.
(Prior Code, § 15-216) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 15-206) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 BACKING UP A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-213) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR BUILDINGS.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district who is
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately
prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 15-215) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-704
§ 72.10 DRIVING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane, when available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except for when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-301
§ 72.11 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-212) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street, provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state
or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto so as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
(Prior Code, § 15-208)
§ 72.13 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn left shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto so as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when
and as required by this traffic code, may make such left turn, and the drivers
of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite direction
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 15-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-402
SPEED
§ 72.25 RULES FOR SPEED REGULATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than what will permit him or her to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (B)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when driving upon any narrow or
winding roadway and when a special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
(Prior Code, § 15-220) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT GENERALLY.
   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this chapter, shall
be driven at a speed greater than 30 mph upon any street within the town. The
Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in which event, it shall
be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed
so declared when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-221) Penalty, see §
72.99
TURNING AND SIGNALING
§ 72.40 INTERSECTIONS, REQUIRED TURNING POSITION AND METHOD.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection, and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 15-250)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-601
§ 72.41 RESTRICTED TURNING AND U-TURNS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place
proper signs at such intersections.
      (2)   The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of
any day and permitted at other hours, in which event, the same shall be plainly
indicated on the signs or such signs may be removed when such turns are
permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such signs.
(Prior Code, § 15-251) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 15-102(a)
§ 72.42 SIGNAL REQUIREMENTS FOR TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon giving
a signal of intention. There will be no exceptions to include whether or not
such movement may affect any other traffic. Signals of intent shall be utilized
on all occasions as provided in this section. A signal of intention to turn
right or left, when required, shall be given continuously during not less than
the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   (B)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
except upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to
give such signal.   
(Prior Code, § 15-252) (Ord. 2004-03, passed 11-4-2004) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-604
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.55 CORNER-CUTTING.
   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the
services offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking
facility. No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening their travel distance,
avoiding a traffic-control device, avoiding using the streets for travel or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive.
(Prior Code, § 15-214) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.56 UNLICENSED VEHICLE OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a
current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 15-204) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.57 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. RECKLESS
DRIVING shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in willful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or
dangerous rate of speed.
(Prior Code, § 15-210) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-901
§ 72.58 IMPAIRED DRIVING OR DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person whose ability to drive, operate or be in
actual physical control of any motor vehicle is impaired due to the consumption
of intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating beverages.
   (C)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under
the influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine or marijuana, or
who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him or
her incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle, to drive a motor vehicle
within the town.
      (2)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this division
(C) is or has been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate,
amphetamine, marijuana or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-211) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Driving while impaired, see 47 O.S. § 751
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-902
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
as provided in §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   No law enforcement officer shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing §
72.05(B) of this chapter. Any person convicted of violating §
72.05(B) of this chapter shall be punished by a maximum fine of $10 and court
costs.
(Prior Code, § 15-216)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING
Section
General Regulations
   
73.01   Parking within spaces
   
73.02   Parallel parking
   
73.03   Angle parking
   
73.04   Handicapped parking, public or private property
   
73.05   Obstructing traffic or driveways prohibited
   
73.06   Areas with prohibited parking
   
73.07   Loading zone regulations
   
73.08   Selling merchandise from parked vehicles
   
73.09   Presumption regarding illegal parking
Commercial Parking and Spacing
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Minimum parking requirements
   
73.22   Parking space sizing
   
73.23   Drive-through length requirements
   
73.24   Parking predating provisions
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Impoundment for parking violations, see
Ch. 74
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 73.01 PARKING WITHIN SPACES.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off and not on or over a line delineating a space.
(Prior Code, § 15-231) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall be so stopped or parked
in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the curb or roadway edge.
(Prior Code, § 15-232) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this traffic code, the following
definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         ANGLE PARKING. Parking at a curb at approximately a 45-degree angle
between the right side of the vehicle and the curb.
      (2)   Designation. The Board of Trustees may determine upon what streets
angle parking is permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the
streets. Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street.
(Prior Code, § 15-233)
   (B)   (1)   Angle of parking. On those streets which have been signed or
marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at
the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings
and with the front of the vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Parking without obstructing. No person shall park or stand a
vehicle in angle parking spaces designated by markings upon the pavement unless
the vehicle is positioned within the confines of an individually-marked space.
The vehicle shall not be of such length or positioned in such a manner so as to
protrude into the street a distance which would cause or require passing
traffic to change lanes or drive on the left side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 15-234)
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1004(c)
§ 73.04 HANDICAPPED PARKING, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or on public property which is designated and posted as a reserved
area for the parking of motor vehicles of physically disabled persons, unless
such person has a physical disability insignia, as under the provisions of 47
O.S. § 15-112, and such insignia is displayed as provided in 47 O.S. § 15-112
or in regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 15-240) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions so as to leave available less than ten feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a position so as
to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 15-230) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 AREAS WITH PROHIBITED PARKING.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control
device, no person shall:
   (A)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street, except as authorized otherwise in this section;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   On a crosswalk;
      (5)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (6)   On any railroad tracks; or
      (7)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
   (B)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (2)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Within ten feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, except for in
marked parking spaces;
      (4)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station; or
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
(Prior Code, § 15-235) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1003
§ 73.07 LOADING ZONE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees may determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 15-236)
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   Passenger curb loading zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during the hours when the regulations applicable to such curb
loading zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed three
minutes.
      (2)   Freight curb loading zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials in any place marked
as a freight curb loading zone during the hours when the provisions applicable
to such zone are in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading
materials exceed 30 minutes.
      (3)   Passengers in freight curb loading zones. The driver of a passenger
vehicle may stop temporarily at a place marked as a freight curb loading zone
for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading
passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any motor vehicle used
for the transportation of materials which is waiting to enter or about to enter
the zone.
(Prior Code, § 15-237)
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town
and offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided
in this traffic code, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets
in the town is declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons
congregating around the vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 15-238) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 PRESUMPTION REGARDING ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of the parking, the registered owner of the vehicle shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   The presumption in division (A) above shall apply only when the
procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 15-239)
COMMERCIAL PARKING AND SPACING
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. A vehicular connection to a public or private street or alley from a
lot or parcel.
   BUILDING. A structure that has a roof and walls which is intended to shelter
people, animals, property or business activity, including any structure used or
intended to be used for supporting or sheltering a use or occupancy. The term
BUILDING shall be construed as if it were followed by the words “or part or
parts thereof and all equipment therein.”
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A building which is used primarily for carrying out a
business, including non-profit business, or for carrying out the activities of
a state or local government.
   DRIVE-THROUGH. A facility which provides service to customers in vehicles
who either:
      (1)   Drive up to a window or station to make purchases; or
      (2)   Drive through the building to make purchases.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An entity which is engaged in the business of
accepting deposits, or in making, granting, transferring, holding or brokering
loans or credit lines.
   HARD SURFACES. Concrete, asphalt or any other composite material composed of
mineral aggregate adhered with a binder as approved by the Town Code
Enforcement Officer.
   PARKING LOT. An area, usually divided into individual spaces, intended for
parking motor vehicles.
   VEHICLE GAS AND FUELING STATION. A gasoline service station, a fuel station,
such as for hydrogen, compressed natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas, or an
alternative fuel station, which may include a convenience store as an accessory
use.
   VEHICLE WASH. Any area or business using self-service, in-bay automatic or
conveyor equipment for cleaning and washing motor vehicles, whether as a part
of another business operation, such as an accessory use to an automobile
fueling or charging station or automobile sales, rental and service, or as a
stand-alone operation of any type for a commercial purpose.
(Prior Code, § 18-101) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 73.21 MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All commercial buildings operating or constructed within the town limits
which have space intended to be used as a parking lot shall conform to minimum
parking requirements set forth by the Town Board of Trustees as follows.
   (A)   The parking lot and stacking spaces must be hard-surfaced and dust-
free, except for in instances where the adjacent street is unpaved, in which
case, the drive access and parking spaces shall be hard-surfaced within one
year of the date on which all adjacent streets are paved.
   (B)   Fire lanes and ADA spaces may not be constructed with porous surfaces.
   (C)   The parking lot must have direct access to a publicly-maintained
street.
   (D)   Parking lots that require more than six vehicles which are located
within or adjacent to a residential area and in which lights are provided shall
be arranged so that all light is directed away from adjoining residential
areas.
(Prior Code, § 18-102) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-14-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 PARKING SPACE SIZING.
   The size of a parking space for one vehicle shall consist of a rectangular
area having dimensions of not less than the following.
 
Angle of Parking Stall Width Stall Length Width: 1 Row Sharing Width: 2 Rows
                                          Aisle                Sharing Aisle
30-degree angle  9 feet      20 feet      28.8 feet            45.6 feet
parking
45-degree angle  9 feet      20 feet      31.1 feet            50 feet
parking
60-degree angle  9 feet      20 feet      34.6 feet            54.7 feet
parking
90-degree angle  9 feet      20 feet      42 feet              60 feet
parking
Parallel         8 feet      18 feet      N/A                  N/A
 
(Prior Code, § 18-102) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 73.23 DRIVE-THROUGH LENGTH REQUIREMENTS.
   For drive-through facilities which permit the transaction of business
directly with customers within an automobile, the following shall be required.
   (A)   Drive-through car length requirements.
      (1)   Restaurants, coffee shops or fast food establishments shall have at
least six car lengths of space for vehicles from the ordering station or the
first drive-in or drive-though window and four car lengths for each additional
window.
      (2)   Financial institutions shall have at least six car lengths of space
behind a single window or lane, or four car lengths per window or lane for
multiple drive-through lanes, and two car lengths for an ATM.
      (3)   Pharmacies shall have three car lengths of space per drive-through
lane.
      (4)   Vehicle gas and fueling stations shall have two car lengths of
space per fuel pump.
      (5)   Vehicle wash establishments shall have two car lengths of space per
bay at the entrance and one car length per bay at the exit for automatic, self-
service or full-service washes.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Drive-through lanes shall be clearly marked and shall not interfere
with on-site or off-site traffic circulation.
      (2)   Drive-through lanes shall be designed with an abutting ten-foot
wide bypass lane.
      (3)   No portion of the drive-through lane may occupy any portion of a
public right-of- way.
      (4)   The minimum car length in a drive-through lane width shall be eight
feet, and length shall be eighteen feet.
(Prior Code, § 18-102) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 73.24 PARKING PREDATING PROVISIONS.
   Commercial buildings in operation prior to this subchapter shall be exempt
unless remodeling or additions occur to that building, in which case, porous
parking lots shall be required to be hard-surfaced.
(Prior Code, § 18-102) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
as provided in §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
73.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 15-240)
CHAPTER 74: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
74.01   Purpose
   
74.02   Police authority to impound
   
74.03   Place of impoundment
   
74.04   Duration of impoundment; payment of costs
   
74.05   Inventory of impounded vehicles
   
74.06   Driver of vehicle arrested and detained
   
74.07   Vehicle constituting a traffic hazard
   
74.08   Vehicle on a bridge or in a tunnel
   
74.09   Disabled vehicle
   
74.10   Vehicle parked in an intersection
   
74.11   Vehicle blocking a fire exit or hydrant
   
74.12   Vehicle parked overtime
   
74.13   Illegal trespass by vehicle
   
74.14   Vehicle with outstanding traffic citations
   
74.15   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
§ 74.01 PURPOSE.
   The impoundment of vehicles under the authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for the protection of
the public peace, safety and welfare and the safeguarding of property, and
shall be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, the
prevention and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law
violations, the protection of public rights in the use of streets and
thoroughfares from obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights
and for the safeguarding and protection of recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-501)
Statutory reference:
   Grounds for removal of vehicles on highway by state, see 47 O.S. § 955
   Removal of abandoned vehicles on private property, see 47 O.S. § 954A
§ 74.02 POLICE AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under the order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle which is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the Town
Board of Trustees, and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 15-502) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT; PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Duration. Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under
the authority of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order
for its release is received from an officer of the Traffic Violations Bureau or
other proper police officer.
   (B)   Payment. The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be
conditioned upon the payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage
charges assessed against the vehicle by the person to whom the release is
issued.
(Prior Code, § 15-503)
§ 74.05 INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his or her property, the protection
of the town’s law enforcement personnel and the protection of the garage or
wrecker service moving or holding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15-515)
§ 74.06 DRIVER OF VEHICLE ARRESTED AND DETAINED.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-507)
§ 74.07 VEHICLE CONSTITUTING A TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and parked
illegally so as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-508)
§ 74.08 VEHICLE ON A BRIDGE OR IN A TUNNEL.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or a
hazard may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-506)
§ 74.09 DISABLED VEHICLE.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such an extent so as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled so as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a
hazard.
(Prior Code, § 15-505)
§ 74.10 VEHICLE PARKED IN AN INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection
shall be impounded.
   (B)   A disabled vehicle in an intersection, when the person in charge of
the vehicle is present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 15-512)
§ 74.11 VEHICLE BLOCKING A FIRE EXIT OR HYDRANT.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-511)
§ 74.12 VEHICLE PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this code regarding more than 24 hours shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-510)
§ 74.13 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this code may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   (B)   If a violation of the provisions of this code occurs, then the owner
or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person
parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property, or if the
identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may
be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be
verified and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal
occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   (C)   Upon the filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe that the
provisions of this code have been violated, the Police Department shall cause
the vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 15-509)
§ 74.14 VEHICLE WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations have been issued for violation
of an ordinance, which citations have not been presented as required, may be
impounded if parked in violation of any provision of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-514)
§ 74.15 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment. The registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the
location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police
Department.
   (B)   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, then the owner shall be given the right to make
his or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of
one hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery, and if
the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time
specified, then the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-513)
CHAPTER 75: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
75.01   Regulations applicable generally
   
75.02   Traffic laws and regulations applicable
   
75.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
75.04   Manner of riding on bicycle
   
75.05   Speed limit
   
75.06   Riding on the right side of roadways
   
75.07   Riding on sidewalks prohibited
   
75.08   Riding abreast restrictions
   
75.09   Lights and reflectors for nighttime riding
BICYCLES
§ 75.01 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE GENERALLY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to bicycles operated
upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any
act required by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-401) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1201
§ 75.02 TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the town applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to
those provisions of law and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1202
§ 75.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized
signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-turn is permitted, no
person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such signs,
except for where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn,
in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to
pedestrians.
   (B)   Any person may walk a bicycle, and shall then be subject to all laws
applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 15-403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.04 MANNER OF RIDING ON BICYCLE.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 15-404) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1203
§ 75.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 15-407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.06 RIDING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAYS.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 15-405)
§ 75.07 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-408) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.08 RIDING ABREAST RESTRICTIONS.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except for on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 15-406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.09 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS FOR NIGHTTIME RIDING.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the frame, which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front.
   (B)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the State Department of Public
Safety, which shall be visible from all distances from 300 feet to 500 feet to
the rear when directly in front of the lawful upper beams of headlamps of a
motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 15-409)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 1-104
CHAPTER 76: RAILROADS
Section
   
76.01   Speed limit
   
76.02   Climbing on or boarding trains
   
76.03   Street and alley improvements by railroads
   
76.04   Sidewalk construction by railroads
§ 76.01 SPEED LIMIT.
   It is unlawful to drive, pull, move or operate a locomotive, train or other
rolling stock of a railroad at a speed of more than 45 mph within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 16-104) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.02 CLIMBING ON OR BOARDING TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To climb upon, hold to or in any manner attach himself or herself to
any railway train, locomotive or railway car while such is in motion within the
town, unless such person is acting in the line of duty; or
   (B)   To board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight or
other car, except with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in
charge of the train or car, or in the line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 16-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.03 STREET AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS BY RAILROADS.
   (A)   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks
running in a general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto,
the railway company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet on
either side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to
be, or has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the
Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may approve.
   (B)   In cases where any railway company occupies an alley with its track or
tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain and grade such alley, and
shall surface or pave it with the same material which is to be, or has been,
used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material as the Board of
Trustees by motion or resolution may approve.
   (C)   When the tracks of any railroad company cross any street that is being
or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is occupied
by its track or tracks and two feet on each side using the same material as is
to be, or has been, used on the street, or such other satisfactory material as
the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may approve. When more than one
track crosses a street within a distance of 100 feet, measuring from inside
rail to inside rail, the railroad company shall grade, gutter, drain and curb
the street area between its tracks and surface or pave it with the same
material which the town is to use, or has used, on the street.
   (D)   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in a
good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 16-101) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.04 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION BY RAILROADS.
   (A)   Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights-of-
way using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the street when both sides are used by pedestrians.
   (B)   Railroad companies shall keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 16-102) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION GENERALLY
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   WEEDS AND TRASH
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   ANIMALS
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION GENERALLY
Section
   
90.01   Health ordinances enforced by County Health Department
   
90.02   Obstructing Health Officer unlawful
   
90.03   Noncompliance unlawful
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 HEALTH ORDINANCES ENFORCED BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning
      HEALTH OFFICER. Shall be construed to mean the Director of the County
Health Department or his or her duly-designated representative.
   (B)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent and purpose of the Mayor and the
Town Board of Trustees to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of
the town as set out in this section, and any such decisions rendered under this
section shall be subject to review by the governing board upon an appeal from
an offender.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
§ 90.02 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
Health Officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-502) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NONCOMPLIANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or omit to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
Board of Health or any officer charged with the enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 8-503) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any law or code
adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-504)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Fair Housing Board; duties
   
91.03   Prohibited acts
   
91.04   Exemptions
   
91.05   Filing a complaint
   
91.06   Investigation; conference and conciliation
   
91.07   Notice of complaint and hearing
   
91.08   Hearing procedures
   
91.09   Serving notices
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The general purposes of this section are:
   (A)   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   (B)   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
§ 91.02 FAIR HOUSING BOARD; DUTIES.
   (A)   Board created. There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board of the
town, hereinafter referred to as “Board,” composed of the members of the Town
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-704)
   (B)   Duties. It is the duty of the Fair Housing Board to:
      (1)   Initiate, receive and investigate complaints, charging unlawful
housing practices;
      (2)   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings
of fact and publish its findings of fact; and
      (3)   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary within the
limits of this chapter and carry out the purposes and provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-705)
§ 91.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, real estate broker, real estate salesperson
or agent to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title or
other interest in any housing or real property upon which residential housing
is to be constructed to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, sex, religion or national origin;
   (B)   Refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or leasing of
any residential property, or to represent that such property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, because
of such person’s race, color, sex, religion or national origin;
   (C)   To solicit or induce, or to attempt to solicit or induce, any person
owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not
to sell, rent or lease, such housing to any person on the grounds of a loss of
value due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person
or persons of another race, color, sex, religion or national origin, either by
direct solicitation or inducement or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute or cause to
be distributed materials or make statements designed to induce a residential
property owner to sell or lease his or her property due to such change in
neighborhood; and
   (D)   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter with the
knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect or to file such
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment.
(Prior Code, § 5-702) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall apply to:
   (A)   Any religious organization, association, society or private club, or a
religious nonprofit organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, from
limiting the sale or rental of dwelling units owned and operated for other than
a commercial purpose;
   (B)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that such
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
and was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, with the
exception granted to one such sale within a 24-month period, and provided
further that such owner does not own or retain in his or her behalf title to a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three single-
family houses at any one time, and provided further that such sale or rental of
such single-family house shall be excepted if such house is sold or rented
without the use in any manner of a sale or rental facility or an employee
thereof; and
   (C)   Any dwelling containing living quarters occupied or intended to be
occupied by not more than four families living independently of each other, and
the owner actually occupies one such living quarter as his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 5-703)
§ 91.05 FILING A COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a discriminatory practice prohibited by this
chapter may file with the Fair Housing Board a complaint in writing under oath.
The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be aggrieved, shall
state the name and address of the person alleged to have violated the
provisions of this chapter and shall further set forth the particulars of the
violation, and the complaint may include such other information as may be
required by the Board.
   (B)   Complaints filed under this section must be filed within 30 days after
the alleged violation, and failure to file within the time shall be considered
a waiver of the application of this section. The Board may issue a complaint on
its own initiative at any time when it is within the knowledge of the Board
that a person has violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-706)
§ 91.06 INVESTIGATION; CONFERENCE AND CONCILIATION.
   The Board shall investigate each complaint filed with the Board and shall
attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of conference and conciliation.
Sixty days shall be allowed for the purpose of investigation, conference and
conciliation. Upon the determination that a complaint is not well-founded, the
Board shall dismiss the complaint and notify the complainant and respondent in
writing of the dismissal. If the Board takes no action within 90 days of the
filing of the complaint, then it shall be considered as a dismissed.
(Prior Code, § 5-706)
§ 91.07 NOTICE OF COMPLAINT AND HEARING.
   If conference or conciliation does not result in compliance with this
chapter, then the Board shall cause to be issued and served in the name of the
town a written notice, together with a copy of the complaint, requiring the
person named in the complaint, hereinafter referred to as “respondent,” to
answer the charges of the complaint at a hearing before the Board at a time and
place to be specified in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-706)
§ 91.08 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   At the hearing provided for in §
91.07 of this chapter, the complaint shall be heard by the Board. At the
hearing, the complainant or person aggrieved may appear in person and by
counsel, and the respondent may file a written answer to the complaint and may
appear in person or by legal counsel. The Board, when conducting any hearing
pursuant to this action, may permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and
the testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath and shall be transcribed
at the request of either party or at the direction of the Board.
   (B)   If the Board finds at the hearing that the respondent has engaged in
any discriminatory practice or practices prohibited by this chapter, then it
shall state its findings of fact and shall so certify the matter to the Town
Attorney for appropriate action. No prosecution shall be brought under this
section except upon such certification. If the Board, upon hearing, finds that
the respondent has not engaged in any discriminatory practice, then it shall
state its findings of fact and shall issue and file an order dismissing the
complaint.
   (C)   The Board shall establish rules and regulations to govern, expedite
and effectuate the foregoing procedure and shall maintain the files provided
for herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-706) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 SERVING NOTICES.
   Any and all notices required to be served upon any person under the
provisions of this chapter may be served personally on such person or by
mailing a copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt
requested, to the most current business or residence address of such person.
(Prior Code, § 5-707)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful and constitutes an offense for any person to violate
any of the provisions of this chapter. Any person found guilty of violating any
provisions shall be deemed guilty of an offense and is subject, upon
conviction, to punishment as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. Each day that an act or omission is continued shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be construed as a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-708)
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation that shall engage in any
business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or
registration is required by this chapter without having a valid license,
permit, certificate or certificate of registration as required, or who shall
fail to do anything required by this chapter or by any code adopted by this
chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provisions of the sections in this
chapter or of any code adopted by this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful
regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for in this chapter,
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-801)
      (2)   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere
with the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for
a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-802)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Adopting Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Definition
   
92.03   Enforcement by Fire Chief
   
92.04   Power to modify by Fire Chief
   
92.05   Liquefied petroleum gas provisions
   
92.06   Substance storage limits and restrictions
   
92.07   Appealing to Board of Trustees
Open Fires
   
92.20   Title
   
92.21   Purpose
   
92.22   Definition
   
92.23   Regulations; burn permits
   
92.24   Burning without a permit unlawful
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ADOPTING FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire or explosion, there is hereby adopted by the Town
Board of Trustees that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code,
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the
current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except for such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. Not less than one
copy of the Code has been filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein. The provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall be controlling
within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 92.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPALITY. Whenever used in the Fire Prevention Code hereby adopted,
MUNICIPALITY shall be held to mean the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-103)
§ 92.03 ENFORCEMENT BY FIRE CHIEF.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-102)
§ 92.04 POWER TO MODIFY BY FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have the power to modify any of the provisions of the
Code hereby adopted in his or her own discretion or upon application in writing
by an owner or lessee, or by his or her duly- authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the letter of the code,
provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured
and substantial justice done. When granted or allowed, the particulars of such
modifications and the decision of the Fire Chief thereon shall be entered upon
the records of the Department, and for applications requesting change, a signed
copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 13-105)
§ 92.05 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensation or
utilization of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle or store such
gas, unless such person has complied with and complies with all provisions of
the law and ordinances relating thereto and has any license or permit which may
be required by state law.
   (B)   The pamphlet “Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases,” as
contained in NFPA 58: Liquified Petroleum Gas Code, the latest edition thereof
adopted by the State Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and
effect within the town. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall be
deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town and shall be punished
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   State rules, LPG, see 52 O.S. §§ 420.1 et seq.
§ 92.06 SUBSTANCE STORAGE LIMITS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The limits referred to in the Fire Prevention Code in which the storage of
flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, the limits
referred to in which the bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted
and the limits in which the storage of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited are hereby established as the fire limits provided in Ch. 151 of
this code.
(Prior Code, § 13-104) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 APPEALING TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Whenever the Fire Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Fire Chief to the Town Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date of
the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 13-106)
OPEN FIRES
§ 92.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Town of Calera Open Fires
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 2012-03, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 92.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to control and regulate any open fires
within the town and to provide rules and guidelines to facilitate the
enforcement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-402) (Ord. 2012-03, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 92.22 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PERMISSIBLE. Allowable or permitted by the town and not in direct violation
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-403) (Ord. 2012-03, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 92.23 REGULATIONS; BURN PERMITS.
   (A)   No refuse, trash or combustible or hazardous materials may be burned
within the town limits.
   (B)   All persons planning on starting an open fire must obtain a burn
permit prior to starting the fire. Burn permits may be obtained from the Town
Clerk-Treasurer at Town Hall from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday, only.
   (C)   No burn permits will be issued when a burn ban has been placed on the
town either by the Town Fire Department, the County Commissioners, the Governor
of the state or any political subdivision thereof.
   (D)   Each burn permit is only valid for three days, and a new permit must
be obtained each time that the permissible open fire is to be conducted.
   (E)   Each address of a controlled burn must have its own burn permit
issued.
   (F)   The issued burn permit must remain on site at all times and be
presented upon request by either the Town Fire Department or Police Department.
   (G)   All permissible open fires must be controlled by a competent
individual at least 16 years of age or by a group of competent individuals at
least 16 years of age at all times, and such fires must not be left unattended
at any time. The individual or individuals controlling the fire must have some
form of extinguishing device or pressurized water source, which includes a
garden water hose with an on/off nozzle, ready to use at a moment’s notice at
all times.
   (H)   All permissible open fires shall not be located within 50 feet of any
type of structure.
   (I)   All permissible open fires shall be done from sunrise to sunset. All
permissible open fires must be extinguished or smoldering at sunset.
   (J)   No permissible open fire shall be allowed any time the wind speed is
above ten mph in any direction. If the wind speed increases to above ten mph
during a permissible open fire, then the fire must be extinguished.
   (K)   No smoke from a permissible open fire may cross a road or highway or
become a traffic hazard. If smoke does cross the road or highway or create a
traffic hazard, then the permissible open fire must be extinguished
immediately.
   (L)   The Town Fire Department and Police Department have the right to
extinguish any permissible open fire or revoke any permit due to location,
weather or local circumstances which would make a permissible open fire a
hazard to the town.
   (M)   Burn pits and burn rings must be made of noncombustible materials and
must have some form of fire extinguisher device or pressurized water source,
which includes a garden water hose with an on/off nozzle, ready to use at a
moment’s notice at all times.
      (1)   Burn pits are not to be more than four feet wide, and burning
material cannot be larger than two feet tall. Anything over this requires a
burn permit.
      (2)   A dirt-only pit must have a burn permit.
      (3)   Burn pits and burn rings are subject to the rules and guidelines
placed by the County Commissioners and the Governor when burn bans are issued.
(Prior Code, § 8-404) (Ord. 2012-03, passed 7-10-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 BURNING WITHOUT A PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   The failure to obtain a burn permit after the adoption of this subchapter
shall be considered a violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to the
penalties hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-405) (Ord. 2012-03, passed 7-10-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Except as addressed in division (C) below, any person, firm or
corporation that violates any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 13-107)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any
business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or
registration is required by §
92.05 of this chapter without having a valid license, permit, certificate or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by §
92.05 of this chapter or by any code adopted by §
92.05 of this chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provisions of §
92.05 of this chapter or of any code adopted by §
92.05 of this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made
by any of the officers provided for in §
92.05 of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-801)
      (2)   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to §
92.05 of this chapter shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply
to the proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other
appropriate action against such person, firm or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-802)
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
92.20 through
92.24 of this chapter shall first be given a warning. After the first warning,
any person, firm or corporation continuing to violate the provisions of §§
92.20 through
92.24 of this chapter shall be guilty of a fine of not more than $200. Such
fine shall be at the discretion of the Court.
      (2)   Each and every day during which such violation continues shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation hereof and may be charged and
prosecuted as such. The above-specified penalties may be imposed for each such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-407)
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 7-10-2012)
CHAPTER 93: WEEDS AND TRASH
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Littering unlawful
   
93.03   Littering from automobiles unlawful
   
93.04   Depositing rubbish unlawful
   
93.05   Dead animal removal required
   
93.06   Trash or weed accumulations unlawful
   
93.07   Litter accumulations unlawful
   
93.08   Reporting accumulations on property
   
93.09   Notice issued after report
   
93.10   Hearing; abatement
   
93.11   Right of entry; work done by employees or contract
   
93.12   Determining and assessing costs
   
93.13   Lien on property; civil remedy
   
93.14   Administrative officer designated by Board of Trustees
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Placing signs on the property of another, see
Ch. 134
Throwing advertising on streets, see
Ch. 134
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste or matter of any kind or form which is uncared
for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEEDS.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak and poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except for healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption or grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the community or
a hazard to traffic, create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of WEEDS;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulations of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
§ 93.02 LITTERING UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      LITTERING. Throwing any trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin cans, bottles or
any other objects or substances whatsoever upon the public streets, alleys,
roadways or sidewalks of the town or upon any real property owned or occupied
by another.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to litter.
(Prior Code, § 8-112) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 LITTERING FROM AUTOMOBILES UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw from any automobile or motor vehicle
being operated and driven upon and over the streets, alleys or roadways of the
town any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin cans or any other substances or refuse
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-113) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DEPOSITING RUBBISH UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substances, grass, weeds, trees, brush or any other
refuse or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley, ditch or watercourse, or
upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-109) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DEAD ANIMAL REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the town shall
remove its carcass within 24 hours after the death of such animal.
(Prior Code, § 8-111) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 TRASH OR WEED ACCUMULATIONS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of land
situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the town to allow
trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the duty
of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
(Prior Code, § 8-101) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 LITTER ACCUMULATIONS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any real
property either as tenant or owner to allow trash, wastepaper, litter objects,
bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to accumulate upon
such real property or premises being so occupied or rented to such an extent so
as to constitute a littering nuisance.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any real
property either as tenant or owner to allow accumulated trash, wastepaper,
litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to
be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements or
otherwise, to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by
the offender.
(Prior Code, § 8-114) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 REPORTING ACCUMULATIONS ON PROPERTY.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both of these conditions, upon any
premises within the limits of the town shall report the condition to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises
appears to be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic;
   (C)   A fire hazard to property; or
   (D)   Any two or more of these conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)
§ 93.09 NOTICE ISSUED AFTER REPORT.
   (A)   Upon receiving the report provided for in §
93.08 of this chapter or upon receipt of equivalent information from any
reliable source, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall give written notice of the
provisions of this section and §
93.10 of this chapter, and that the premises is in violation of §
93.06 of this chapter, by forwarding a copy thereof by certified mail, with
return receipt requested, to the owner of the property at the address shown by
the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the treasurer of the county in
which the property is located.
   (B)   If the return receipt shows that the property owner cannot be located,
then notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
one time not less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing by the Board
of Trustees or before it takes action.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 93.10 HEARING; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   At least ten days from the date of receipt of the notice by the owner
or the date of publication, and upon the date specified in the notice, the Town
Board shall hear the matter and shall receive information thereon, including
anything which may be presented by the owner of the premises personally or by
agent or attorney.
   (B)   If the Board determines that any of the conditions specified in §
93.08 of this chapter exist upon the premises, it may order the property to be
cleaned of trash or other trash or weeds to be cut, removed or destroyed
unless, within ten days from the date of receipt of the notice or the date of
publication, the owner either:
      (1)   Cuts, removes or destroys the trash or weeds in accordance with the
notice; or
      (2)   Gives written consent authorizing the town to abate the trash or
weeds, thereby waiving his or her right to a hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 93.11 RIGHT OF ENTRY; WORK DONE BY EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACT.
   (A)   Upon finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard as specified in §
93.08 of this chapter and that the property would be benefitted by the removal
of such conditions, agents of the town are granted the right of entry on the
property to remove trash, mow weeds or grass and perform necessary duties as a
governmental function.
   (B)   The work ordered to be performed under §§
93.09 and
93.10 of this chapter may be done by employees of the town under the
supervision of the town or it may be let by contract in the manner for letting
other contracts.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
§ 93.12 DETERMINING AND ASSESSING COSTS.
   (A)   Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under §
93.11 of this chapter, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall report the cost thereof
to the Town Board. Such report shall be itemized as to each tract of property
involved as follows:
      (1)   Labor;
      (2)   Machinery rental or depreciation;
      (3)   Fuel and supplies;
      (4)   Cost of notice;
      (5)   Other costs; and
      (6)   Indirect costs.
   (B)   The Board shall examine the report and, after receiving appropriate
information, shall determine the total cost of the work. The Board shall direct
the Town Clerk-Treasurer to forward a statement and demand payment of the total
cost by certified mail, with return receipt requested, to the owner of the
property at the address shown by the current tax rolls in the office of the
treasurer of the county in which the property lies.
(Prior Code, § 8-106)
§ 93.13 LIEN ON PROPERTY; CIVIL REMEDY.
   (A)   If the cost of the work performed under this chapter is not paid
within 30 days from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by §
93.12 of this chapter, then the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the cost to the treasurer of the county in which the
property upon which the work was done is located in order that the amount be
levied upon the property and be collected by said county treasurer in the
manner prescribed by the law of the state.
   (B)   The lien is coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other
taxes and special assessments and is prior and superior to all other titles and
liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully
paid. At any time prior to collection as provided in this section, the town may
pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and the interest
thereon.
   (C)   Upon receiving payment, if any, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward
to said county treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of
the lien.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
§ 93.14 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER DESIGNATED BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Town Board may designate an administrative officer to carry out the
duties of the Town Board in §§
93.01 and
93.08 through
93.13 of this chapter. The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the
Town Board from any order of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing written notice of appeal with the Town Clerk-Treasurer within
ten days after the administrative hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-115)
   (B)   The failure to do as per §
93.05 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-111)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Nuisances unlawful
   
94.03   Successive owners responsible to abate
   
94.04   Time does not legalize nuisances
   
94.05   Power to define and summarily abate by town
   
94.06   Certain nuisances defined
   
94.07   Remedies against public nuisances
   
94.08   Remedies against private nuisances
   
94.09   Summary abatement process
   
94.10   Abatement by suit in district court
   
94.11   Toilet facilities required; nuisance conditions
   
94.12   Health nuisances; abatement
   
94.13   Procedures cumulative
Periodical Distribution
   
94.25   Definitions
   
94.26   Distribution on private property
   
94.27   Distribution on uninhabited or vacant property
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty, or any
thing or condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or
any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in “public nuisance.”
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. One which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon such individuals may be unequal.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances defined, municipal powers to abate, see 50 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.
§ 94.02 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee or other person, to create or maintain a nuisance within the town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or her control within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 8-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 SUCCESSIVE OWNERS RESPONSIBLE TO ABATE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property which was created by a former
owner is liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 8-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE NUISANCES.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE BY TOWN.
   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town has the power to determine what is and
what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, public parks and public water supply, outside
of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the town has the
power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an
opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)
§ 94.06 CERTAIN NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink, or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of state law or the ordinances of the town, or the keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of state law or the ordinances of the town;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects, or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the town, or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      (8)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (9)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities, or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      (10)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (11)   Any use of a street, sidewalk or place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      (12)   Permitting water or other liquids to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (13)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated so as to endanger the public safety;
      (14)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses and accumulations of manure, refuse
or other things which are or are likely to be breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs, and the premises on which such exist;
      (15)   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other conditions;
      (16)   Any pit, hole or other thing which is constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated so as to endanger the public safety;
      (17)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (18)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      (19)   Any motor vehicle, whether in operating condition or not, or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district; and
      (20)   Any stable or other place where animals are kept which may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein or by reason of a lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The enumeration of certain public nuisances in division (A) above
shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances
defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more specific
terms.
(Prior Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
   (A)   A fine of $215, to be issued by any competent authority of the town;
   (B)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   (C)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court; or
   (D)   Abatement:
      (1)   By the person injured, as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
      (2)   By the town, in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) (Ord. 2020-04, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 94.08 REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   (A)   Civil action; or
   (B)   Abatement:
      (1)   By the person injured, as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
      (2)   By the town, in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)
§ 94.09 SUMMARY ABATEMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Immediate abatement in certain circumstances. Some nuisances are of
such a nature so as to constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace,
health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more persons or of the public
generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be such so as to justify,
and even to require, the Mayor or other appropriate officer or agency of the
town government to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such
nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate actions can
be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   Statement and request. The Fire Chief, the Police Chief, the Town
Attorney, the Building Inspector, the Electrical Inspector, the Plumbing
Inspector or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit to the Town
Board of Trustees, either through or with the consent of the Mayor, a statement
as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town or
law and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The Mayor himself or
herself, the Health Officer, the Board of Trustees or any resident or residents
of the town may submit such a statement and request a recommendation to the
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Investigation and hearing.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the Board of Trustees shall have the power to subpoena and examine
witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the
nuisance or to have it abated, the Board of Trustees shall give notice of a
hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property concerned and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given.
      (2)   Such notice to the owners and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known. If the names or addresses are not known and the peace,
health, safety, morals or welfare of the person, persons or public adversely
affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, then notice of
the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation within the
town.
   (D)   Abatement options.
      (1)   If the Board of Trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact exist,
then it shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person, persons or public adversely affected would not
be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay.
      (2)   If the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance do not abate it within the specified time, then the Board of Trustees
shall direct the Mayor to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, if summary
abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. § 16. The Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall send a statement of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the
circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost
shall constitute a debt to the town collectible as other debts to the town may
be collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
§ 94.10 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
town may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
§ 94.11 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as
to conform with the specifications approved by the State Health Department.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. A flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction so as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   (B)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate within the town shall install, equip and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by use of a
sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy. The closets and toilets hereby
required shall be of a sanitary water closet-type when located within 200 feet
of a sanitary sewer and accessible thereto and of a sanitary water closet-type,
notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary sewer, a water closet-type
emptying into a septic tank system or a pit privy-type. A septic tank system or
a pit privy may be used in such cases only if it meets the standards of and is
approved by the State Health Department.
   (C)   All human excrement disposed of within the town shall be disposed of
by depositing such excrement in closets and privies of the types provided for
in this section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within the town to
permit the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner or for any
person to dispose of human excrement within the town in any other manner.
   (D)   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop or anything other than
human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy.
   (E)   No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery
or other serious bowel diseases shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or
sanitary water closet until it is disinfected in such a manner as may be
prescribed by the Health Officer.
   (F)   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section and all privies and closets
constructed, situated or maintained so as to endanger the public health are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and may be dealt with and abated as
such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense, and
each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.12 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to the authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the
Health Officer shall have the authority to order the owner or occupant of any
private premises in the town to remove from such premises, at his or her own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents which might contribute to the transmission of
disease or any other condition adversely affecting the public health within 24
hours, or within such other time as may be directed in writing and served
personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or the authorized agent
thereof, by the Health Officer or a police officer, or a copy thereof may be
left at the last usual place of abode, if known and within the state, of the
owner, occupant or agent.
      (2)   If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of the owner,
occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the state, then the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, then the Health Officer may cause
the order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be
certified to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be added to the
water bill or other town utility bill of the owner or occupant if he or she is
a user of water from the town’s water system or such other utility service. The
cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added and
shall become due and payable and subject to the same regulations relating to
delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself.
      (2)   If such owner or occupant is not a user of any town utility
service, then such cost, after certification to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, may
be collected in any manner in which any other debt due to the town may be
collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.13 PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this subchapter
and by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative on to any
other penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
PERIODICAL DISTRIBUTION
§ 94.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PERIODICAL. Any newspaper, current magazine or work of literature of general
circulation, as defined by general case law, entered with the U.S. Postal
Service in accordance with federal statute or regulation or filed and recorded
with any recording officer as provided by general law; in addition thereto, a
PERIODICAL shall be regularly published, with not less than four issues per
year.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure designed
or used either wholly or in part for private purposes, whether inhabited,
temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard,
grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or
appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, airspace
or other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 19-101) (Ord. 2019-04, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 94.26 DISTRIBUTION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any periodical upon any
private premises unless the owner of said property has solicited such
periodical or granted express permission for that person to do so.
   (B)   Subject to the conditions set forth in division (A) above, the deposit
or distribution of any periodical on private premises shall be done in such a
reasonable manner so as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any adjoining premises, street or sidewalk or other public space,
or upon other private property.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to federal, state,
county or municipal agencies when acting in the performance of their official
duties.
(Prior Code, § 19-102) (Ord. 2019-04, passed 10-10-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.27 DISTRIBUTION ON UNINHABITED OR VACANT PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit any periodical in or upon any private
premises which is temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant if:
   (A)   It is apparent that the property is unoccupied;
   (B)   It is apparent that previous periodicals have not been removed; or
   (C)   The owner has not given permission to do so.
(Prior Code, § 19-103) (Ord. 2019-04, passed 10-10-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Restrictions and offenses
   
95.03   Clean enclosures and pens required
   
95.04   Breaking into shelter unlawful
   
95.05   Rabies control procedures
Administration and Impoundment
   
95.20   Animal control officers; duties
   
95.21   Impounding animals which injure humans
   
95.22   Vicious animal procedures
   
95.23   Nuisance animal procedures
   
95.24   Obtaining release of impounded animals
   
95.25   Impoundment fees and charges
   
95.26   Selling or disposing of animals not retrieved
Dogs and Cats
   
95.40   Prohibition in certain areas
   
95.41   Abandoned dogs and cats
   
95.42   Dogs or cats at-large
   
95.43   Rabies vaccination required for dogs and cats
   
95.44   Affixing tag to dog or cat collar; lost tags
   
95.45   Counterfeiting or removing tags unlawful
   
95.46   Dog licenses and tags
   
95.47   Limitation on number of dogs
Other Animals
   
95.60   Wild, exotic, dangerous animals or reptiles
   
95.61   Livestock
   
95.62   Fowl and rabbits
   
95.63   Livestock, fowl or rabbits at-large
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any living creature, wild or domestic, except for human beings.
   ANIMAL WILD BY NATURE. Any animal which is not generally considered to be
domesticated or a pet or which is usually considered by ordinary persons to be
dangerous, or an animal which does not live ordinarily with human beings.
   AT-LARGE. An animal is:
      (1)   Off the premises of its owner and not securely and physically
restrained by means of a chain, cord, harness, leash, rope or other device
required to restrain such animal; or
      (2)   On the premises of the owner and not securely confined on the
premises.
   CONFINED ON THE PREMISES. When an animal is securely and physically
restrained on and within the premises of the owner by means of chains, fences,
leashes, ropes, walls or other devices required to prevent the animal from
leaving the premises.
   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. A person willfully or maliciously:
      (1)   Tortures, cruelly beats, injures, maims, disfigures, wounds,
maltreats or unjustly destroys or kills any animal belonging to himself,
herself or another;
      (2)   Unnecessarily confines or deprives any animal of proper food, drink
or shelter or unjustly leaves an animal confined anywhere for more than six
hours at a time, day or night, exposed to inclement weather or without proper
feeding, watering and caring for the same;
      (3)   Abandons an animal to die;
      (4)   Unjustly administers any poison or noxious drug or substance to any
animal; or
      (5)   Causes any other person to do any of the above items.
   FOWL. Includes chickens, geese, ducks, doves, guineas, turkeys and other
such domestic fowl.
   HARBORING OR KEEPING AN ANIMAL. An animal is allowed to remain or to
customarily return during a period of ten days or more on the premises of any
person.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, donkeys, mules, cattle, swine, sheep, goats and other
such animals commonly known as LIVESTOCK.
   NUISANCE. An animal that:
      (1)   Congregates in a group of three or more on private property without
the consent of the owner, and in so doing, annoys the owner;
      (2)   Habitually prowls around, on or over any premises not the property
of its owner to the frequent annoyance of the owner or occupant of the
premises;
      (3)   Scratches or digs into or tramps on or over any flower bed, garden,
tilled soil, vines, shrubbery or small plants, and in so doing, injures them;
      (4)   Overturns any garbage can or other container of waste products, or
scatters the contents of the same;
      (5)   Chases or kills any domesticated animals or domesticated birds;
      (6)   Habitually chases motor vehicles or self-propelled vehicles,
bicycles or pedestrians; or
      (7)   Annoys or disturbs any person by loud and frequent barking,
howling, yelping or other noise.
   OWNER. Any person who possesses legal title to an animal or who, possessing
no legal title, keeps or harbors the animal.
   SHELTER. The animal control shelter where impounded animals are kept before
the disposal of the same, including the actual premises where such animals are
regularly kept.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal that:
      (1)   Has bitten or attempted to bite any person without due provocation;
or
      (2)   Attacks or barks or growls at any person and acts as if it intends
to attack or bite a person when not duly provoked.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
§ 95.02 RESTRICTIONS AND OFFENSES.
   No person shall willfully or intentionally:
   (A)   Own any animal capable of transmitting rabies which does not have a
current rabies vaccination;
   (B)   Own any dog or cat over six months of age which does not have a
current vaccination against rabies;
   (C)   Fail to prevent any animal, except for a cat, owned by him or her from
running or being at- large or turn any animal, except for a cat, not owned by
him or her at-large;
   (D)   Abandon or desert any domestic animal or otherwise permit such animal
to become a stray;
   (E)   Own a vicious animal;
   (F)   Own any animal which is a nuisance;
   (G)   Fail or refuse, upon demand, to deliver to an animal control officer
any unlicensed or vicious animal, any animal which is found by the Court to be
a nuisance, any animal suspected of having rabies, any animal found at large or
any animal the owning of which is prohibited by this chapter;
   (H)   Remove or fail to attach to the collar worn by a dog or cat a current
rabies vaccination tag;
   (I)   Own any animal or reptile wild by nature, except when kept by a
licensed circus or show or in a zoo;
   (J)   Fail or refuse to keep every female animal “in heat” confined in such
a manner that another animal cannot come into contact with it, except for
controlled breeding purposes;
   (K)   Interfere with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, Municipal Judge or animal
control officers when performing their duties as provided herein;
   (L)   Demonstrate cruelty to animals; or
   (M)   Violate any of the other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-120) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 CLEAN ENCLOSURES AND PENS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All pens or enclosures for animals shall be maintained in a clean
condition and be free of filth at all times. All manure shall be cleaned at
least weekly from the pens and hauled outside of the town in a manner which
does not jeopardize the public health.
   (B)   Each pen and enclosure shall be sprayed with a suitable residual spray
as often as is necessary to control flies, insects and noxious odors.
   (C)   The animal control officers, upon being notified properly that a
verified complaint has been filed by any person alleging that certain outside
pens or enclosures for animals are not being kept in the manner prescribed by
this section, shall inspect the pens or enclosures where the animal or animals
are kept. The Municipal Judge, upon such citizen complaint, inspection and
hearing, may issue to the owner such reasonable order as he or she may deem
necessary to cause the pens or enclosures to be kept as provided in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 4-121) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 BREAKING INTO SHELTER UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall break into the shelter or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, assist or advise a breaking into of the shelter so as to hinder
the impoundment of any animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-122) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 RABIES CONTROL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Every animal that bites or scratches a person shall be reported within
four hours to the Police Chief or the animal control officer and shall
thereupon be securely quarantined at the town’s animal shelter or a veterinary
hospital, all at the owner’s expense, for a period of ten days. The animal
shall not be released from such quarantine except by permission of the Health
Officer of the town and a licensed veterinarian hospital chosen by the owner,
if the owner agrees to pay for the quarantine in advance. Failure of the owner
to quarantine his or her animal will make him or her guilty of an offense.
   (B)   In the case of stray animals, or in the case of animals whose
ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be at the animal shelter.
   (C)   The owner, upon a demand by an employee empowered to enforce this
chapter, shall forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten or scratched a
human or which is suspected of having been exposed to rabies for supervised
quarantine, the expenses for which shall be borne by the owner. The animal may
be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies.
   (D)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
is suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under
such observation, the animal control officer or veterinarian shall immediately
send the head of such animal to the State Health Department for pathological
examination and shall notify the proper public health officer of reports of
human contact and diagnoses made of the suspected animal.
   (E)   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
Health Officer of the town may recommend a town-wide quarantine for a period of
six months, and upon the invoking of such quarantine, no animal shall be taken
into the streets or permitted to be in the streets during such period of
quarantine. During such quarantine, no animal shall be taken or shipped from
the town without the written permission of the Health Officer of the town or
the animal control officer.
   (F)   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein designated, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be treated for such
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian or held under a six-month
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
   (G)   In the event that there are additional positive cases of rabies
occurring during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be
extended for an additional six months.
   (H)   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any animal biting or
scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor remove the same from the
town limits without written permission from the Health Officer of the town or
the animal control officer.
   (I)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the animal control officer upon demand.
   (J)   The animal control officer shall direct the disposition of any animal
found to be infected with rabies.
   (K)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
or destruction as required herein when a demand is made therefor by an employee
empowered to enforce this chapter. Such refusal shall be deemed an offense.
   (L)   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other practitioner
to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
   (M)   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the town’s
animal control officer his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or
her to be a rabies suspect.
(Prior Code, § 4-150) Penalty, see §
95.99
ADMINISTRATION AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 95.20 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   The person designated by the Board of Trustees shall serve as
animal control officer and shall possess the authority for enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Animal control officers are specifically authorized to use whatever
means necessary to impound animals in violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-110)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Police Chief shall supervise all animal control officers and is
responsible for the administration and maintenance of the shelter.
      (2)   Animal control officers shall pick up all animals in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or cite the owners.
      (3)   Animal control officers shall impound all animals lawfully brought
to the shelter and shall provide suitable and necessary sustenance for all
animals impounded in the shelter.
      (4)   Animal control officers shall release no impounded animal to its
owner until all impoundment fees, room and board charges and any other fees
required are paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 4-111)
§ 95.21 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS WHICH INJURE HUMANS.
   (A)   When any animal capable of carrying or transmitting rabies or other
diseases bites or otherwise injures a person, or is suspected of having rabies,
such animal shall be impounded for a period of ten days at either the shelter
or a licensed veterinarian’s hospital for the purpose of observation. The owner
of such animal shall pay the impoundment charges due for impoundment.
   (B)   In the event that such animal is impossible to capture, it shall be
destroyed, and the Police Chief shall have it examined by a medical authority
to determine whether it has rabies.
   (C)   Should any person refuse to deliver custody of such animal to an
animal control officer, the officer may secure an order of the Municipal Court
to be served upon such person, commanding him or her to deliver custody of such
animal to the officer. The order shall constitute the authority to enter any
premises for the purpose of enforcing this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-115) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 VICIOUS ANIMAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon being notified properly that charges of harboring a vicious
animal are pending against any person in the Municipal Court, the animal
control officer shall seize and impound the animal described in such
proceedings.
   (B)   If such seized and impounded animal has bitten a human being two or
more times prior to being seized and impounded, then and in that event, it
shall be destroyed.
   (C)   If the Municipal Court shall fail to find that the animal so seized
and impounded is a vicious animal, then the Court shall order the animal to be
surrendered to its owner.
   (D)   If the Municipal Court shall find that the animal so seized and
impounded is a vicious animal, then the Court shall order the animal to be
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 4-117)
§ 95.23 NUISANCE ANIMAL PROCEDURES.
   Upon a verified complaint being filed by any person alleging that another
person owns an animal that is a nuisance, and if, after a hearing on such
complaint, the Municipal Court finds that the nuisance exists, the Court may,
in its discretion, order the animal to be destroyed or otherwise order the
nuisance to be abated.
(Prior Code, § 4-116)
§ 95.24 OBTAINING RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   Owners of impounded animals may retrieve or otherwise obtain the release of
their animals from the shelter only after the cash payment of those fees and
charges as set forth in §
95.25 of this chapter and the presentment of proof of a rabies vaccination, if
required by this chapter, from a licensed veterinarian within the prior 12
months immediately preceding or during the impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 4-113)
§ 95.25 IMPOUNDMENT FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Impoundment fee. An impoundment service fee as set by the Town Board
of Trustees shall be charged for each animal lawfully impounded by animal
control officers.
   (B)   Special handling fee. A special handling fee equal to the incurred
expenses shall also be charged per each animal for which the animal control
officers secured special equipment or services.
   (C)   Room and board charge. A room and board charge shall also be made at a
rate per day per each impounded animal. In computing the amount of room and
board charge due, the day impounded shall be counted as one day and the day
redeemed shall also be counted as one day.
(Prior Code, § 4-112)
§ 95.26 SELLING OR DISPOSING OF ANIMALS NOT RETRIEVED.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, any animal which is impounded by the
town pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be sold, destroyed or
otherwise disposed of after at least 72 hours from the time of its impoundment
at the shelter, provided, however, that in the event that an animal is taken
into custody by an animal control officer and the animal has been injured or
otherwise disabled, which ordinarily would require the animal’s destruction or
treatment by a veterinarian, the Police Chief may order its destruction if the
ownership of such animal cannot be determined within a reasonable period of
time.
   (B)   Should such ownership be determined, the injured or disabled animal
shall be promptly delivered over to such owner.
(Prior Code, § 4-114)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 95.40 PROHIBITION IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   Except for trained seeing-eye dogs which are under the control of their
owners by a chain, cord, harness, leash, rope or similar device and which have
been vaccinated currently and police dogs which are under the control of a
police officer by a chain, cord, harness, leash, rope or similar device and
which have been vaccinated currently, no owner shall take his or her dog or cat
into any public place or building where food or drink is sold, served or
dispensed commercially.
(Prior Code, § 4-134) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.41 ABANDONED DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or desert a dog or cat or permit such animal
to become a stray. Any dog or cat found at large not wearing any tag indicating
proof of current vaccination against rabies shall be presumed abandoned and
will be impounded by the town.
   (B)   In the event that any cat which is presumed to be abandoned or stray
cannot be captured so as to be impounded, it shall be immediately destroyed by
the animal control officers.
(Prior Code, § 4-130) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.42 DOGS OR CATS AT-LARGE.
   (A)   The owner of an animal shall not permit such dog to be at-large,
except as provided in this chapter. Should any dog be found at-large, it shall
immediately be impounded at the shelter by the animal control officers.
   (B)   Cats may be at large within the town, except as provided in §§
95.40 and
95.41 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-131) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.43 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED FOR DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Vaccination frequency. The owner of a dog or cat shall have such
animal vaccinated against rabies by a veterinarian or other authorized person
before the animal is six months old, and thereafter, yearly.
   (B)   Certificate and tag. The person vaccinating the dog or cat shall
furnish the owner with a certificate of vaccination and a tag to be worn by
such animal indicating proof of current vaccination against rabies.
(Prior Code, § 4-135) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.44 AFFIXING TAG TO DOG OR CAT COLLAR; LOST TAGS.
   The owner of a dog or cat shall cause the tag received from the veterinarian
to be affixed to the collar or harness of the dog or cat so that the tag can
easily be seen by animal control officers, and the owner shall see that the tag
is worn by the dog or cat at all times. In cases where the tag is lost before
the end of the year for which is was issued, the owner shall secure another tag
from the veterinarian and affix it to the collar in the same manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-136) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.45 COUNTERFEITING OR REMOVING TAGS UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit any tag issued for a
dog as provided in this chapter, nor take from any dog a tag legally placed
upon it, nor place such tag upon a dog for which the tag was not specifically
issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-137) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.46 DOG LICENSES AND TAGS.
   Any dog six months of age or more shall annually be registered with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, providing information on the dog as required by the town. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license and tag to the owner upon registration
and payment of the license fee. The tag shall be affixed to a collar worn by
the dog at all times. Licenses expire annually as specified in the license.
(Prior Code, § 4-132) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.47 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS.
   No person shall own more than four dogs over four months of age and keep the
same within a residential district of the town. This section shall be construed
to limit the number of dogs per residence to four over the age of four months.
(Prior Code, § 4-133) Penalty, see §
95.99
OTHER ANIMALS
§ 95.60 WILD, EXOTIC, DANGEROUS ANIMALS OR REPTILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      WILD, EXOTIC, DANGEROUS ANIMAL OR REPTILE. An animal of the larger
variety which is usually not a domestic animal and which can normally be found
in a wild state, with or without mean or vicious propensities, including, but
not limited to, lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, lynxes, bears, wolves,
alligators, crocodiles, apes, foxes, elephants, rhinoceroses, all forms of
poisonous and nonpoisonous snakes, including those considered dangerous such as
boas and pythons, raccoons, skunks, monkeys and other like animals.
   (B)   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any wild, exotic, dangerous animal or
reptile in the town as a pet or for display or exhibition purposes, whether
gratuitously or for a fee, except as provided in this section.
   (C)   No person or persons shall keep and maintain or allow to be maintained
any wild animal or reptile within the town. This includes private residences
and all businesses and public displays within the town.
   (D)   The person or persons excepted from division (C) above shall be:
      (1)   Duly-authorized and licensed circuses or educational institutions;
      (2)   Agents or employees properly authorized by an educational
institution to keep and maintain that institution’s animals in connection with
any lawful experimental or research program;
      (3)   Zoological gardens; and
      (4)   Zoos which are supervised and publicly maintained.
   (E)   (1)   If the owner of any wild, exotic, dangerous animal or reptile
can establish to the Police Department’s satisfaction that an animal ordinarily
considered as wild, dangerous or exotic is not dangerous to people or other
animals and that the animal is healthy, safe and tame as a pet, then the Town
Clerk-Treasurer may issue a permit to the owner to keep such animal or reptile
in the town limits. The annual permit fee shall be as set by the Town Board.
      (2)   The establishment of whether such animal or reptile is healthy,
safe and tame as a pet shall be the responsibility of the owner of the animal
or reptile by submitting written evidence to the Police Department. No permit
shall be granted by the Clerk-Treasurer unless written approval of the evidence
submitted by the owner is submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer in advance.
      (3)   For any animal or reptile so permitted as provided in this section,
the owner agrees to accept full responsibility for the actions and behavior of
such animal or reptile.
   (F)   The town may issue temporary permits for the keeping, care and
protection of an infant animal or reptile native to the area which has been
deemed to be homeless. The town shall have the power to release or order the
release of any infant wild animal or reptile kept under temporary permit which
is deemed capable of survival.
(Prior Code, § 4-160) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.61 LIVESTOCK.
   No livestock shall be kept within the town limits except for temporarily in
a stockyard awaiting transportation, at a slaughterhouse awaiting slaughter,
for show purposes or for treatment under the care of a licensed veterinarian,
and at a location specifically approved for one or more such purposes by a
resolution of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-140) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.62 FOWL AND RABBITS.
   Fowl and rabbits may be kept within the town provided that they are kept in
a sufficient enclosure which is maintained in accordance with the provisions of
§
95.03 hereof and which is maintained not closer than 20 feet to a lot line upon
which is situated an inhabited dwelling, nor closer than 50 feet to any
dwelling or inhabited building other than the owner’s.
(Prior Code, § 4-141) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.63 LIVESTOCK, FOWL OR RABBITS AT-LARGE.
   No person shall allow any livestock, fowl or rabbit to run or fly at-large
or, in so doing, to trespass upon the premises of another or upon the streets
and alleys of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-142) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Persons convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code for each day upon which a violation continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-170)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Recreational facility rules made by Board of Trustees
   
96.02   Fees determined by town
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 RECREATIONAL FACILITY RULES MADE BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce
such rules, regulations and other requirements as it deems necessary or
expedient in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities
owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-101) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 FEES DETERMINED BY TOWN.
   The town shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-102) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational
facilities without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated
by the Board of Trustees in connection therewith as per §§
96.01 and
96.02 of this chapter. Anyone violating any of the rules and regulations or
failing to comply with such shall be guilty of an offense, and on conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 11-103)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES AND FEES
      
111.   BUILDING AND/OR CONSTRUCTION PROFESSIONS
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
113.   PERSONAL SALES
      
114.   ITINERANT VENDORS AND SOLICITATION
      
115.   FOOD AND BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES AND FEES
Section
   
110.01   License fee levied on certain occupations
   
110.02   Application and issuance; expiration
   
110.03   Separate licenses required
   
110.04   Acquiring duplicate for lost or destroyed license
   
110.05   Displaying license required
   
110.06   Transferring license prohibited
   
110.07   Revocation of license
   
110.08   Contractor registration fees
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Electricians, see
Ch. 111
   Itinerant vendors and door-to-door salespersons, see
Ch. 114
   Plumbers, see
Ch. 111
§ 110.01 LICENSE FEE LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A license fee may be levied in accordance with state law on persons
engaging in, exercising or pursuing any businesses, professions, trades,
occupations or privileges in the town for a fee as set by the Town Board by
ordinance, motion or resolution, payable quarterly.
   (B)   In order to receive a license under this chapter, every person, firm
or corporation regulated pursuant to this section is required to possess a
valid and current state sales tax permit if such person, firm or corporation is
a vendor subject to the collection of sales taxes under the sales tax codes of
the town and state. A copy of this permit shall be provided by the applicant
for a license to the Town Clerk-Treasurer prior to issuance of the town
license.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
Editor’s note:
   Fees are levied as follows as of July 1, 1989:
   (A)   Bowling alley, $5 per year per alley; and
   (B)   Pool, billiards or variations of the same, up to three tables: $15 per
year, plus $3 per each additional table.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to tax and regulate occupations, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106
and 22-107
§ 110.02 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Application. Applicants for licenses and permits shall file in
duplicate with the Town Clerk- Treasurer sworn applications on forms furnished
by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)
   (B)   Fee, issuance and expiration.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise or pursue any
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a license tax is
levied by §
110.01 of this chapter or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the license tax and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
      (2)   Upon making proper application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, payment
of the license tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may be
prescribed by law or ordinance, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license
therefor. Such license taxes shall be credited to the General Fund of the town.
      (3)   Licenses expire one year from the date of issue unless otherwise
specified.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person who engages in, exercises or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation or privilege for which a license is required at or from more
than one place in the town, or who engages in, exercises or pursues more than
one such business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall pay the
fee and secure a separate license for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)
§ 110.04 ACQUIRING DUPLICATE FOR LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, on
application, shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the
duplicate is issued, the holder shall make and file with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer an affidavit that the license has not been transferred, that it has
been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder and
that, if believed lost, he or she has made a diligent search for it and has
been unable to find it.
   (B)   The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be set by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-108)
§ 110.05 DISPLAYING LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his or her place of business or activity
where a person who has entered the place may readily see it, or if he or she
has no particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and
shall display it to any person who requests to see it.
   (B)   In lieu of the manner of displaying such licenses provided in division
(A) above, when licenses are required for coin-operated music or amusement
devices, vending machines and similar devices and equipment, the license may be
placed on or attached to such device or equipment in such a position and manner
that it will be clearly visible, and shall be so placed or attached if the
license so states on its face.
   (C)   It is unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as required in
this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-105) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 TRANSFERRING LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-107) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   License may not be transferred, see 11 O.S. § 22-107
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued by the town to any person to engage in, exercise or
pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege may be revoked
by the Board of Trustees, after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for either
of the following reasons:
   (A)   The licensee is engaging in, exercising or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege in such a manner that he or she has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by state law or local
ordinance; or
   (B)   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-106) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION FEES.
   Registration fees for contractor-related occupations shall be $50 per year.
Contractor-related occupations include, but are not limited to, electrical
contractors, plumbing contractors, mechanical contractors, exterminators or
pest control contractors, security alarm contractors, locksmith contractors,
water sprinkler contractors and any other contractors who are considered to be
skilled tradespersons or who perform general maintenance and construction on
commercial or residential buildings.
(Prior Code, § 9-110) (Ord 2019-06, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade or occupation or
who exercises any privilege for which a license is required by this chapter
without a valid license as thereby required, or who violates any provision of
this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. A violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for
the revocation or suspension of a license granted.
(Prior Code, § 9-109)
CHAPTER 111: BUILDING AND/OR CONSTRUCTION PROFESSIONS
Section
Electricians
   
111.01   Certificate of registration required
   
111.02   Registration fee; renewal requirements
   
111.03   Bond required
   
111.04   Revocation of certificate
   
111.05   Exception to certificate and bond requirements
Plumbers
   
111.20   Definitions
   
111.21   Certificate of registration required; registration requirements
   
111.22   Registration fee; expiration and renewal
   
111.23   Bond required
   
111.24   Revocation of certificate
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   State plumbing licenses, requirements, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.
ELECTRICIANS
§ 111.01 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyperson electrician or apprentice
electrician without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
town.
   (B)   No person may be registered with the town as a contractor,
journeyperson or apprentice unless he or she possesses a valid and current
state license issued by the state and pays the registration fee in such sum as
set by the Town Board by motion or resolution. This certificate is not
transferable to any other individual or company.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION FEE; RENEWAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The initial fee for a registration certificate and for any renewal, to be
paid to the Town Clerk- Treasurer, shall be as set by the Town Board. A
registration certificate must be renewed within 90 days following the
expiration of the certificate. After the expiration, an application for a new
certificate must be requested and the initial fee paid again.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 111.03 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person receiving a certificate as an electrical contractor shall
file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a bond, in such sum as set by the Town
Board, which is executed with a surety company authorized to do business in the
state.
   (B)   The bond shall be conditioned that:
      (1)   The principal will install all electrical wiring, fixtures,
appliances and equipment in accordance with the law and the ordinances and
other regulations of the town relating to electrical installations in a
professional manner;
      (2)   The principal shall, without further cost to the person for whom
the work was done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by poor
workmanship or inferior or nonstandard material; and
      (3)   The town may be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and
all costs, expenses or damage resulting from the performance of his or her work
as an electrical contractor.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 111.04 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the Town Board may revoke the
certificate of an electrical contractor, apprentice electrician or
journeyperson electrician.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 111.05 EXCEPTION TO CERTIFICATE AND BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   For the installation of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over 12
volts, no registration or bond will be required. The installation of the same
must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
111.99
PLUMBERS
§ 111.20 DEFINITIONS.
   The phrases and words JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER or JOURNEYPERSON PLUMBER, PLUMBER’S
APPRENTICE, PLUMBING CONTRACTOR and PLUMBING, when used in the ordinances,
regulations and other official acts and communications of the town, shall have
the meanings respectively prescribed for them by 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq., the
State Plumbing License Law, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 111.21 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED; REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Registration required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a plumbing contractor, otherwise known as a
master plumber, a journeyperson plumber or a plumber’s apprentice in the town
unless he or she is registered with the town and has a current and valid
certificate of registration issued by the town.
   (B)   Requirements. Only persons who have current and valid licenses as
plumbing contractors or journeyperson plumbers issued by the State Commissioner
of Health, as provided by the State Plumbing License Law, may register as such
with the town. Only persons who have current and valid certificates of
registration as plumber’s apprentices issued by the State Commissioner of
Health, as provided by the Law, may register as such with the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 REGISTRATION FEE; EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Fee. The fee for registration shall be as set by the Town Board by
motion or resolution.
   (B)   Registration and expiration. Applicants for certificates of
registration as a plumbing contractor or journeyperson plumber, after complying
with the laws of the state and with this code, and after payment of the
registration fee, shall be registered by the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The
registration shall expire annually but may be renewed from year to year.
   (C)   Renewal. All plumbing contractor registrations not renewed within 90
days after the date of expiration thereof shall be cancelled, and a new
application for registration must be made and the fee for a new registration
paid.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 111.23 BOND REQUIRED.
   Any plumbing contractor shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a bond, in
such sum as set by the Town Board of Trustees, which is executed with a surety
company authorized to do business in the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 111.24 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   The Town Board, upon at least ten days’ notice and adequate opportunity for
a public hearing, may revoke the town registration of any plumbing contractor
or journeyperson plumber for violating any provision of the ordinances or
regulations of the town relating to the installation of plumbing or for any
other cause specified in the State Plumbing License Law.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any
business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or
registration is required by §§
111.01 through
111.05 or
111.20 through
111.24 of this chapter without having a valid license, permit, certificate or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by §§
111.01 through
111.05 or
111.20 through
111.24 of this chapter or by any code adopted by §§
111.01 through
111.05 or
111.20 through
111.24 of this chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of §§
111.01 through
111.05 or
111.20 through
111.24 of this chapter or of any code adopted by §§
111.01 through
111.05 or
111.20 through
111.24 of this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order
made by any of the officers provided for in §§
111.01 through
111.05 or
111.20 through
111.24 of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-801)
      (2)   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to §§
111.01 through
111.05 or
111.20 through
111.24 of this chapter shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply
to the proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other
appropriate action against such person, firm or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-802)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
Marijuana
   
112.01   Intent and purpose
   
112.02   Marijuana legality; responsibility of licensee
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Prohibitions and requirements for marijuana businesses
   
112.05   Location restrictions for marijuana businesses
Fireworks
   
112.20   Definition
   
112.21   Permit required; displaying permit
   
112.22   Times of permitted sales
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Bottle rockets prohibited by state law, see 68 O.S. § 1624
   State fireworks licenses required, 68 O.S. §§ 1621 et seq.
MARIJUANA
§ 112.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall comply with 63 O.S. and with applicable State
Department of Health or other regulatory agency rules and regulations. The town
intends that both state law and this subchapter apply within the town. Where
this subchapter conflicts with state law, this subchapter shall apply on all
matters authorized by state statute and on all matters of local concern.
   (B)   The regulations for medical marijuana uses are not adequate at the
state level to address the impacts of medical marijuana on the town, making it
appropriate for local regulation of the impacts of medical marijuana uses.
(Prior Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 2018-06, passed 11-8-2018)
§ 112.02 MARIJUANA LEGALITY; RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The use, distribution, cultivation, production, possession and
transportation of medical marijuana remains illegal under federal law, and
marijuana remains classified as a “controlled substance” by federal law.
   (B)   All medical marijuana licensees are assumed to be fully aware of the
law. The town shall not be required to issue warnings before issuing citations
for violations of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 2018-06, passed 11-8-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirements. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a medical
marijuana business without obtaining a license to operate pursuant to 63 O.S. §
420 through 425. Unless higher performance is required by applicable law, there
must be a minimum of a one-hour fire separation wall between a medical
marijuana business and any adjacent business.
   (B)   Separate license for each location. A separate license shall be
required for each premises from which a medical marijuana business is operated.
Except as specifically provided in this section, no two or more different
medical marijuana businesses may be treated as one premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-502) (Ord. 2018-06, passed 11-8-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PROHIBITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR MARIJUANA BUSINESSES.
   Medical marijuana dispensaries (MMDs), medical marijuana commercial growers
(MMCGs) and medical marijuana processors or manufacturers (MMPMs):
   (A)   Are not allowed on any land owned by the town;
   (B)   Shall comply with applicable zoning, parking, landscaping and building
codes of the town;
   (C)   Shall comply with 63 O.S. and applicable State Department of Health or
other regulatory agency rules and regulations;
   (D)   Must possess a current, valid medical marijuana license relating to
the intended purpose of the business, to be issued by the State Department of
Health; and
   (E)   Must possess a medical marijuana license relating to the intended
purpose of the business, to be issued by the Town Board of Trustees, and pay an
annual licensing fee to the town, such fee to be set annually by the Town Board
of Trustees as allowed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 9-503) (Ord. 2018-06, passed 11-8-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS FOR MARIJUANA BUSINESSES.
   (A)   No medical marijuana retailer shall be located within 1,000 feet from
any public or private school entrance.
   (B)   Distances shall be measured by the town on official maps as the radius
from the closest point on the applicant’s building to the nearest entrance to
any private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational or trade
school or college or university.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, a school, college or university shall
include properties owned by such entities only if such are used to provide
services, teaching facilities or living facilities to students. No distance is
required between a marijuana business and properties owned by a school, college
or university which are not used to provide teaching facilities, living
facilities or services to students.
(Prior Code, § 9-503) (Ord. 2018-06, passed 11-8-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
Cross-reference:
   See also Medical marijuana dispensary distancing; inspection required, §
112.05
FIREWORKS
§ 112.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Shall have the meaning prescribed by state law, 68 O.S. § 1622.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) (Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 2020-07, passed
10-10-2020)
§ 112.21 PERMIT REQUIRED; DISPLAYING PERMIT.
   (A)   All sellers of fireworks in the corporate town limits will be required
to purchase and post a seller’s permit. The cost of the permit is $50 from June
15 to July 6, and an additional permit of $50 will be required for sale from
December 15 to January 2.
   (B)   Wholesale permits will be $100 annually and must be posted in the main
place of business in view of the public inside the seller’s building.
   (C)   The permit and a copy of this subchapter will be required to be posted
in a prominent spot in public view on all buildings.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) (Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 2020-07, passed
10-10-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 TIMES OF PERMITTED SALES.
   Retail fireworks can be sold in the town from June 15 to July 6 and from
December 15 to January 2. Wholesale fireworks can be sold from January 1 to
December 31. Dates are in accordance with 68 O.S. § 1623.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) (Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 2020-07, passed
10-10-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §§
112.20 through
112.22 of this chapter will result in a fine of $215.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 2020-07, passed 10-10-2020)
CHAPTER 113: PERSONAL SALES
Section
Garage Sales
   
113.01   Intent and purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Permit required; permit conditions
   
113.04   Permit fee
   
113.05   Property permitted to be sold
   
113.06   Written statement required
   
113.07   Pre-permit investigation
   
113.08   Displaying permit required
   
113.09   Revocation or refusal of permit
   
113.10   Hours and days of permitted operation; weather exception
   
113.11   Advertising sign regulations
   
113.12   Parking regulations
   
113.13   Public nuisances prohibited
   
113.14   Inspection and arrest authority of inspection
   
113.15   Exemptions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GARAGE SALES
§ 113.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The Town Board of Trustees finds and declares that:
   (A)   The intrusion of nonregulated garage sales is causing annoyance to
citizens in residential areas in the town and congestion of the streets in
residential areas in the town;
   (B)   The provisions contained in this subchapter are intended to prohibit
the infringement of any businesses in any established residential area by
regulating the term and frequency of garage sales so as not to disturb or
disrupt the residential environment of the area;
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter do not seek to control sales by
individuals selling a few of their household or personal items; and
   (D)   The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained are enacted not
to prevent but to regulate garage sales for the safety and welfare of the
town’s citizens.
(Prior Code, § 9-301)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE.
      (1)   All general sales open to the public and conducted from or on a
residential premises in any residential zone, as defined by the zoning
ordinance, for the purpose of disposing of personal property, including, but
not limited to, all sales entitled:
         (a)   Garage sale;
         (b)   Lawn sale;
         (c)   Yard sale;
         (d)   Attic sale;
         (e)   Porch sale;
         (f)   Room sale;
         (g)   Backyard sale;
         (h)   Patio sale;
         (i)   Flea market sale; or
         (j)   Rummage sale.
      (2)   This definition shall not include a situation where not more than
five specific items are held out for sale and all advertisement of such sale
specifically names those items to be sold.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual or by members of his or her residence and acquired in the normal
course of living in or maintaining a residence. The term does not include
merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
(Prior Code, § 9-302)
§ 113.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Requirement. No garage sale shall be conducted unless and until the
individuals desiring to conduct such sale obtain a permit therefor from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. Members of more than one residence may join in obtaining
a permit for a garage sale to be conducted at the residence of one of them.
(Prior Code, § 9-304)
   (B)   Permit conditions. The permit shall set forth and restrict the time
and location of such garage sale. Not more than three such permits may be
issued to one residence or family household during any calendar year. If
members of more than one residence join in requesting a permit, then such
permit shall be considered as having been issued for each and all of such
residences.
(Prior Code, § 9-307)
   (C)   Number limit exception. A fourth garage sale shall be permitted in a
calendar year if satisfactory proof of a bona fide change in ownership of the
real property is first presented to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his or her
duly-authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 9-309)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 PERMIT FEE.
   There shall be an administrative processing fee of $3 for the issuance of
such permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-306)
§ 113.05 PROPERTY PERMITTED TO BE SOLD.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to sell or to offer for sale under
the authority granted by this subchapter property other than personal property.
(Prior Code, § 9-303) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   Prior to the issuance of any garage sale permit, the individuals conducting
such sale shall file a written statement with the Town Clerk-Treasurer at least
five days in advance of the proposed sale, and if mailed, mailed applications
must be postmarked at least seven days in advance of the sale, setting forth
the following information:
   (A)   The full name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The location at which the proposed garage sale is to be held;
   (C)   The date, or dates, upon which the sale shall be held;
   (D)   The date, or dates, of any other garage sales within the current
calendar year; and
   (E)   An affirmative statement that the property to be sold was owned by the
applicant as his or her own personal property and was neither acquired nor
consigned for the purpose of resale.
(Prior Code, § 9-305)
§ 113.07 PRE-PERMIT INVESTIGATION.
   Before issuing a permit, the Town Clerk-Treasurer may conduct an
investigation as may reasonably be necessary to determine if there is
compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-310)
§ 113.08 DISPLAYING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any permit in possession of the holder or holders of a garage sale shall be
posted on the premises in a conspicuous place so as to be seen by the public
and the Town Clerk-Treasurer or Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 9-311) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 REVOCATION OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be revoked and any
application for issuance of a permit may be refused by the Town Clerk-Treasurer
if the application submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains any
false, fraudulent or misleading statement.
   (B)   If any individual is convicted of an offense under this subchapter,
then the Town Clerk- Treasurer is instructed to cancel any existing garage sale
permit held by the individual convicted and not to issue such individual
another garage sale permit for a period of two years from the time of
conviction.
(Prior Code, § 9-316)
§ 113.10 HOURS AND DAYS OF PERMITTED OPERATION; WEATHER EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Allowed times. Such garage sales shall be limited in time to not more
than the daylight hours of three consecutive days or two consecutive weekends
(Saturday and Sunday).
(Prior Code, § 9-308)
   (B)   Rescheduling. If a garage sale is not held on the dates for which the
permit is issued or is terminated during the first day of the sale because of
inclement weather conditions and an affidavit by the permit holder to this
effect is submitted, then the Town Clerk-Treasurer may issue another permit to
the applicant for a garage sale to be conducted at the same location within 30
days from the date when the first sale was to be held. No additional permit fee
is required.
(Prior Code, § 9-309)
§ 113.11 ADVERTISING SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only the following specified signs may be displayed in relation to a
pending garage sale.
      (1)   Two signs permitted. Two signs of not more than four square feet
shall be permitted to be displayed on the property of the residence where the
garage sale is being conducted.
      (2)   Directional signs. Two signs of not more than two square feet each
are permitted, provided that the premises upon which the garage sale is
conducted is not on a major thoroughfare and written permission to erect the
signs is received from the property owners upon whose property such signs are
to be placed.
   (B)   No sign or other form of advertisement shall be exhibited for more
than two days prior to the day such sale is to commence. Signs must be removed
each day at the close of garage sale activities or by the end of daylight,
whichever first occurs.
(Prior Code, § 9-312) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable
laws and ordinances. Furthermore, the Police Department may enforce temporary
controls to alleviate any special hazards or congestion created by any garage
sale.
(Prior Code, § 9-315) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The individual to whom such permit is issued and the owner or tenant
of the premises on which such sale or activity is conducted shall be jointly
and severally responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum on the
premises during all hours of such sale or activity. No such individual shall
permit any loud or boisterous conduct on the premises, nor permit vehicles to
impede the passage of traffic on any roads or streets in the area of such
premises.
   (B)   All such individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any member of
the Police Department or Fire Department of the town in order to maintain the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 9-313) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 INSPECTION AND ARREST AUTHORITY OF INSPECTION.
   A police officer or any other official designated by any town ordinance to
make inspections under the licensing or regulating ordinance, or to enforce the
same, shall have the right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a
garage sale for the purpose of enforcement or inspection, and he or she may
close the premises from such a sale or may arrest any individual who violates
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-314)
§ 113.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect the
following:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Any sale conducted by any merchant, mercantile or other business
establishment from or at a place of business wherein such sale would be
permitted by the zoning regulations of the town or under the protection of the
nonconforming-use section thereof, or any other sale conducted by a
manufacturer, dealer or vendor and which sale would be conducted from properly-
zoned premises and not otherwise prohibited in other ordinances; or
   (D)   Any bona fide charitable, eleemosynary, educational, cultural or
governmental institution or organization when the proceeds from the sale are
used directly for the institution’s or organization’s charitable purposes and
the goods or articles are not sold on a consignment basis.
(Prior Code, § 9-317)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Every article sold and every day a sale is conducted in
violation of §§
113.01 through
113.15 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-318)
      (2)   Any person conducting any such sale or similar activity without
being properly licensed therefor or who shall violate any of the other terms
and regulations of §§
113.01 through
113.15 of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-319)
CHAPTER 114: ITINERANT VENDORS AND SOLICITATION
Section
Itinerant Vendors
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   License fee
   
114.04   Application requirements generally
   
114.05   Application for ice cream truck vending
   
114.06   Transferring license prohibited
   
114.07   Going upon private residences restricted; exceptions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-106; 47 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 421; 72 O.S.
§ 1
ITINERANT VENDORS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. All persons, firms or corporations, as well as their
agents and employees, who engage in the temporary or transient business in the
town of selling or offering for sale any goods or merchandise, or exhibiting
the same for sale, or exhibiting the same for the purpose of taking orders for
the sale thereof, and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business or
conducting such exhibits thereof, either hire, rent, lease or occupy any room
or space in any building, structure, other enclosure, vacant lot or any other
property whatsoever in the town in, through or from which any goods or
merchandise may be sold, offered for sale, exhibited for sale or exhibited for
the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof.
   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. Any person subject to the requirements of the Sex
Offenders Registration Act found in 57 O.S. §§ 581 et seq., as annotated.
   SEX OFFENDER. Any person convicted of crimes involving sex, including rape,
molestation, sexual harassment and pornography production or distribution.
   TEMPORARY. As used in the definition of “itinerant vendor” in this section,
any such business transacted or conducted in the town for which definite
arrangements have not been made for the hire, rental or lease of premises for
at least 100 days in or upon which such business is to be operated or
conducted.
   TRANSIENT. As used in the definition of “itinerant vendor” in this section,
any such business of any such itinerant vendor as may be operated or conducted
by persons, firms or corporations, or by their agents or employees, who reside
away from the town or who have fixed places of business in places other than
the town, or who move stocks of goods or merchandise or samples thereof into
the town with the purpose or intention of removing them, or the unsold portion
thereof, away from the town before the expiration of 100 days.
(Prior Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any itinerant vendor to sell, offer for sale,
exhibit for sale or exhibit for the purpose of taking orders for the sale
thereof any goods or merchandise in the town without first obtaining a license
as herein provided for.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to any itinerant vendor a
license authorizing such itinerant vendor to sell, exhibit for sale, offer for
sale or exhibit for the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof in the
town his or her goods or merchandise only after such itinerant vendor shall
have fully complied with all provisions of this subchapter and shall have paid
the license fees hereinafter provided, which sum shall be compensation to the
town for the services herein required of it and to enable the town to partially
defray the expenses of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-202)
   (B)   Anyone engaged in interstate commerce or anyone upon which the
provisions of this subchapter would impose a direct and unlawful burden on
interstate commerce may appeal to the Judge of the Municipal Court for a
determination of the applicability of these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-12-2018) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fees for itinerant vendors and door-to-door salespersons shall
be as set by the Board of Trustees by motion, resolution or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 9-204) (Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The itinerant vendor shall make application to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer at least ten days prior to the date of his or her contemplated sale
or exhibit to be held in the town, which application shall be in the form of an
affidavit stating the full name and address of the itinerant vendor, the
location of his, her or its principal office and place of business, the names
and addresses of its officers, if it be a corporation, and the partnership name
and the names and addresses of all partners, if such itinerant vendor be a
firm.
   (B)   The application thereof must be accompanied by:
      (1)   A statement showing the kind and character of goods to be sold, or
of merchandise to be sold, offered for sale or exhibited;
      (2)   A certified copy of the articles of incorporation, if the itinerant
vendor be a corporation incorporated under the laws of the state;
      (3)   A certified copy of its permit or authority to do business in the
state, if the itinerant vendor be a corporation incorporated under the laws of
some state other than Oklahoma; and
      (4)   A bond in the sum of not less than $500, executed by the itinerant
vendor as principal with some surety company authorized to do business in the
state, as surety, which bond shall be payable to the town for the use and
benefit of any person or persons entitled thereto, and conditioned that the
principal and surety will pay all damages to a person or persons caused by,
arising from or growing out of the wrongful or illegal conduct of the itinerant
vendor while conducting the sale or exhibit in the town. The bond shall remain
in full force and effect for the entire duration of the license permit as
provided herein, and for two years thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 9-203)
§ 114.05 APPLICATION FOR ICE CREAM TRUCK VENDING.
   The application shall be amended to include the provisions in accordance
with 21 O.S. §§ 2100, 2100.1 and 2100.2, as annotated.
(Prior Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-12-2018) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 TRANSFERRING LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   The license provided for herein shall not be transferable nor give authority
to more than one person to conduct a business as an itinerant vendor, but any
person having obtained such license may have the assistance of one or more
persons in conducting the business.
(Prior Code, § 9-205) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 GOING UPON PRIVATE RESIDENCES RESTRICTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In the exercise of the authority conferred upon the town by state law,
the practice of going to, in or upon the premises of any private residence in
the town by door-to-door salespersons, solicitors, peddlers or order takers
without the express consent, request or invitation of the owner or occupant of
such private residence for the purpose of soliciting orders for the purchase of
or for the sale of goods, wares, publications or merchandise of any
description, or for the purpose of peddling or hawking the same, or for the
purpose of soliciting subscriptions thereto, is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to salespersons, solicitors, peddlers or
order takers representing sales for local nonprofit or charitable
organizations, nor to the sale or soliciting of any order for the sale of milk,
dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs or other farm and garden produce so
far as the sale of the commodities named in this section is authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-206) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Except as to violations covered by 21 O.S. §§ 2100, 2100.1 and
2100.2, as annotated, any person or entity violating the provisions of §
114.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a fine of $200.
      (2)   Any person or entity violating the provisions of 21 O.S. §§ 2100,
2100.1 or 2100.2, as annotated, as per §
114.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a fine not exceeding $1,000 for each
such occurrence or of imprisonment up to two and one-half years.
      (3)   In addition to the civil fines established in this division (B),
three or more violations of §
114.05 of this chapter by a person or entity that owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls a place of business in the town shall be a reason for and
may result in the suspension or revocation of any business license issued for
the premises on which the infractions occurred.
(Prior Code, § 9-203)
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of §
114.07 of this chapter shall be punishable as a misdemeanor against the town.
Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
114.07 of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-206)
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-12-2018)
CHAPTER 115: FOOD AND BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Adopting state food service regulations
Milk
   
115.15   Adopting federal pasturized milk regulations
   
115.16   Grade requirements
Alcoholic Beverages
   
115.30   Purpose
   
115.31   Definitions
   
115.32   Tax levied on certain occupations
   
115.33   When tax due and posting
   
115.34   Compliance with zoning regulations required
   
115.35   Prohibited locations
   
115.36   Certificate of compliance application, investigation
   
115.37   Certificate of zoning and certificate of compliance issuance
   
115.38   Prohibited employment
   
115.39   Condition of sale
   
115.40   Prohibited sales
   
115.41   Prohibited dates, hours for sales
   
115.42   Prohibited consumption locations
   
115.43   Intoxicated person not permitted in cafés, clubs
   
115.44   Intoxication in public places prohibited
   
115.45   Transportation restrictions for alcoholic beverages
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Offenses involving possessing or transporting alcoholic beverages, see
Ch. 132
   Public drinking and intoxication, see
Ch. 132
   Smoking in bars, restaurants and other public establishments, see
Ch. 133
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 ADOPTING STATE FOOD SERVICE REGULATIONS.
   The latest edition of the Oklahoma State Department of Health Rules and
Regulations Pertaining to Food Establishments is hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code by reference. At least one copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The
rules and regulations shall govern the definitions; the inspection of food
service establishments; the issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to
operate food service establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated
or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
115.99
Statutory reference:
   State food regulations, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-1101 et seq.
MILK
§ 115.15 ADOPTING FEDERAL PASTURIZED MILK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Part II of the Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, recommended by the
U.S. Public Health Service, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference to
govern and regulate the production, transportation, processing, handling,
sampling, examination, grading, labeling and sale of milk and milk products
sold for ultimate consumption within the town limits or its police
jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy herds and milk plants and
the issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers, haulers and
distributors.
   (B)   At least one copy of the Pasteurized Milk Ordinance shall be filed in
the office of the appropriate official. Sections 9, 16 and 17 of the abridged
ordinance shall be replaced, respectively, by §§
115.16 and
115.99(C) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
115.99
Statutory reference:
   Manufacture of milk and state laws regulating milk standards, see 2 O.S. §§
7-401 et seq.
§ 115.16 GRADE REQUIREMENTS.
   Only Grade A pasteurized milk and milk products shall be sold to the final
consumer or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery stores or similar
establishments, provided that in an emergency, ungraded milk or milk the grade
of which is unknown may be authorized by the health authority, in which case,
such milk and milk products shall be labeled “ungraded.”
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
115.99
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 115.30 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the town to
preserve the public peace, safety, health and good order thereof and to aid the
enforcement of the policy of the state as established by the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act, 37 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq., and to establish annual
occupation taxes upon all persons engaged in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 3-101) (Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-9-2018; Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-
20-2019)
Statutory reference:
   State alcoholic beverage regulations, generally, see 37A O.S. § 1-101
§ 115.31 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, all of the terms and phrases used
in this subchapter shall be given the same use and meaning as defined by the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      MINOR. A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained
the age at which the consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted.
      STATE LICENSEE. Any person who holds a license issued under the authority
of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 115.32 TAX LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Annual tax levied.
      (1)   There is hereby levied an annual tax not to exceed the amounts
indicated below upon the following named occupations.
   Occupati   Annual Tax
   Occupation                      Annual Tax
Beer distributor                   $750
Bottle club                        $1,000 initial
                                   $900 renewal
Brewer                             $1,250
Caterer                            $1,005 initial
                                   $905 renewal
Distiller                          $3,125
Hotel beverage license             $1,005 initial
                                   $905 renewal
Mixed beverage                     $1,005 initial
                                   $900 renewal
Mixed beverage/caterer combination $1,250
On-premises beer and wine          $500 initial
                                   $450 renewal
Rectifier                          $3,125
Retail beer                        $200
Retail wine                        $100
Small brewer                       $125
Small farm winery                  $75
Wine and spirits wholesaler        $3,000
Wine maker                         $625
 
      (2)   Retail spirits license fees shall be determined by the latest
federal decennial census.
 
Population     Annual Tax
200 to 2,500   $305
2,501 to 5,000 $605
Over 5,000     $905
 
      (3)   Service organizations which are exempt under I.R.C. § 501 (c)(8)
(10) or (19), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(8)(10) or (19) for mixed beverages or
bottle clubs: $500.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
   (B)   Tax assessed per location. Any state licensee carrying on his or her
occupation in more than one location within the town limits of the town shall
be subject to the tax set out for each such location.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-9-2018; Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-20-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Town license fees, not to levy greater than state licenses, see 37A O.S. §§
2-101 et seq.
§ 115.33 WHEN TAX DUE AND POSTING.
   (A)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer on
or before the date upon which he or she enters upon such occupation. The
licensee shall provide a copy of his or her current state license before
payment of an occupation tax will be accepted.
   (B)   Upon payment of the occupation tax as set out, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a receipt to the state licensee, which licensee shall
post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she carries on his or
her occupation. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall also record the name of such
licensee and the address where he or she engages in his or her occupation, and
such records shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files of that office
for at least three years. Thereafter, upon approval of the governing body of
the town, the records may be destroyed.
   (C)   All occupation taxes shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (D)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall make and transmit to the State
Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission an annual report covering
the fiscal year showing the number and class of businesses upon which
occupation taxes were levied and the amount of money collected from such taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.34 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No retail alcoholic beverage package store, no bottle club and no
wholesale alcoholic beverage store, warehouse, brewery, distillery, winery or
any other place, however described, for the manufacture, production or bottling
of alcoholic beverages of any kind shall be located, maintained or operated by
any person at any place within the boundaries of the town, except at a location
at which such an establishment is permitted or authorized by the zoning
ordinances of the town.
   (B)   No person shall own, operate, maintain or be interested in any retail
alcoholic beverage store which is located at a place within the town limits of
the town which is in violation of or forbidden as a location by the town or
under the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
115.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 37A O.S.
§ 115.35 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The location of a retail package store, mixed beverage
establishment or bottle club is specifically prohibited within 300 feet from
any church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and
religious activities or from any public school.
      (2)   If any such church or school shall be established within 300 feet
of any licensed premises after such premises has been licensed, this shall not
be a bar to the renewal of such license so long as it has been in continuous
force and effect.
   (B)   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such church or school to the nearest public entrance
door of the premises of such package store, mixed beverage establishment or
bottle club along the street right-of- way line providing the nearest direct
route usually traveled by pedestrians between such points. For the purpose of
determining measured distance, property situated on the opposite side of the
street from such church or school shall be considered as if it were located on
the same side of the street with such church or school.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
115.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 37A O.S. § 2-139
§ 115.36 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE APPLICATION, INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning, fire,
health and safety codes of the town required by 37A O.S. shall apply at the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office under the same procedure as identified in Ord. 3-107.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
town shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the premises
proposed for licensed operations complies with the provisions of the zoning
ordinance and any health, fire, building and other safety codes applicable to
it.
   (C)   The town shall act on all such applications within 20 days of receipt
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-9-2018; Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-
20-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Certificates issued by town prior to state licensing, see 37A O.S. § 2-142
§ 115.37 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING AND CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Certificate of zoning. Upon finding that the premises of an applicant
for a certificate is in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a
certificate of zoning shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   Certificate of compliance. Upon finding that the premises of an
applicant for a certificate is in compliance with all applicable fire, safety
and health codes, a certificate of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE
Commission.
   (C)   Signing. The certificates of compliance in divisions (A) and (B) above
shall be signed by the Mayor.
   (D)   Conditional certificate. A conditional certificate may be granted if
construction, modification or alteration of the premises proposed for licensed
operations is not completed. The conditional certificate shall indicate that
the proposed premises will comply with town zoning, fire, safety and health
codes. A certificate in accordance with divisions (A) and (B) above shall be
issued within ten days after all final inspections are complete.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
§ 115.38 PROHIBITED EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   No minor shall be employed in the selling, manufacture, distribution
or other handling of alcoholic beverages at any place within the town. No
person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of any minor at
any place within the town in the selling, manufacture, distribution or other
handling of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No minor shall be permitted to remain within or to loiter about the
premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store.
(Prior Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.39 CONDITION OF SALE.
   No person owning, employed in or in any manner assisting in the maintenance
and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic beverage to
be consumed or any retail container of such beverage to be opened on the
premises of such store.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-9-2018; Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-
20-2019) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.40 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages
at any place within the town limits of the town to any person who is a minor,
nor shall any minor misrepresent his or her age verbally or in writing or
present false documentation of age, or otherwise, for the purpose of inducing
any other person to sell him or her alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No person shall sell, deliver or knowingly furnish an alcoholic
beverage or beverages within the town to an intoxicated person or to any person
who has been adjudged insane or mentally deficient.
(Prior Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.41 PROHIBITED DATES, HOURS FOR SALES.
   (A)   No person shall open for business, keep open for business or sell or
deliver alcoholic beverages, as defined herein, to any person at a retail
alcoholic beverage store in the town:
      (1)   On any Sunday;
      (2)   On New Year’s Day;
      (3)   On Memorial Day;
      (4)   On the Fourth of July;
      (5)   On Labor Day;
      (6)   On Veteran’s Day;
      (7)   On Thanksgiving Day;
      (8)   On Christmas Day;
      (9)   While the polls are open on the day of any general, primary, runoff
primary or special election, whether national, state, county or town; or
      (10)   On any other day except between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m.
   (B)   No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages and no officer, agent or
employee of such a dealer shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store within the town any amount of spirits or wines:
      (1)   On Saturday of any week;
      (2)   On Sunday of any week;
      (3)   On New Year’s Day;
      (4)   On Memorial Day;
      (5)   On the Fourth of July;
      (6)   On Labor Day;
      (7)   On Veteran’s Day;
      (8)   On Thanksgiving Day;
      (9)   On Christmas Day; or
      (10)   While the polls are open on the day of any general, primary,
runoff primary or special election, whether national, state, county or town.
(Prior Code, § 3-117) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.42 PROHIBITED CONSUMPTION LOCATIONS.
   No person shall drink or consume in any manner any alcoholic beverage on the
premises of a retail alcoholic beverage package store, nor in any other public
place, and neither shall a person open or break the seal of any original
package or retail container containing an alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any such retail beverage store.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.43 INTOXICATED PERSON NOT PERMITTED IN CAFÉS, CLUBS.
   No person operating a café, restaurant, club or any place of recreation
within the town, and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of
such café, restaurant, club or place of recreation, shall permit any person to
be drunk or intoxicated in the place of business.
(Prior Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.44 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   No person within the town shall drink intoxicating liquor in any public
place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in a public place within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.45 TRANSPORTATION RESTRICTIONS FOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful to transport any alcoholic beverage, unless the same is:
   (A)   In an unopened, original container with seal unbroken and the original
cap or cork not removed from the container; or
   (B)   In the trunk or other closed compartment or container out of public
view and out of the reach of and not accessible to the driver or any occupant
of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
115.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
      (2)   In addition thereto, any person convicted of a violation may be
enjoined from continuing the violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
115.01,
115.15 or
115.16 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Except as to violations covered by 21 O.S. §§ 2100, 2100.1
and 2100.2, as annotated, any person or entity violating the provisions of §§
115.30 through
115.45 of this chapter shall be guilty of a fine of $200.
         (b)   Any person or entity violating the provisions of 21 O.S. §§
2100, 2100.1 and 2100.2, as annotated, as per §§
115.30 through
115.45 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a fine not exceeding $1,000 for each
such occurrence or for imprisonment up to two and one-half years.
         (c)   In addition to the civil fines established in division (D),
three or more violations of §§
115.30 through
115.45 of this chapter by a person or entity that owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls a place of business in the town shall be a reason for, and
may result in, the suspension or revocation of any business license issued for
the premises on which the infractions occurred.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
      (2)   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by §§
115.30 through
115.45 of this chapter without first paying the occupation tax imposed therefor
in advance of such operation is guilty of an offense against the town, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. A penalty in the form of increased tax may be levied
upon any person not paying the tax within 15 days after it is due.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
      (3)   All sums due from any person, firm or corporation by reason of
occupation taxes imposed by §§
115.30 through
115.45 of this chapter shall be recoverable at the suit of the town brought
against such person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In such suit, in
addition to the tax, the town shall be allowed to recover interest at the
maximum allowable rate permitted by state law upon all sums due by way of tax
from the date of accrual thereof, any penalty and all costs of collection,
judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorney fees. Prosecution for an
offense against the town arising out of the failure to pay a tax levied by §§
115.30 through
115.45 of this chapter, regardless of the outcome or its continued pendency,
shall not constitute a defense or a bar in any manner to the collection of any
tax and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
      (4)   A violation of §
115.38 of this chapter shall subject the owner or proprietor, as well as the
underage person, to prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-9-2018; Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-20-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PEOPLE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Attempting to commit an offense
   
130.02   Aiding in an offense
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ATTEMPTING TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and who in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such
offense but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof,
is guilty of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the
attempted offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 10-101) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense or
misdemeanor and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this Title XIII not otherwise addressed
is punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PEOPLE
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Assault and battery
Minors
   
131.15   Curfew; exemptions
   
131.16   Preventing access to tobacco and vapor products
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Possessing or using weapons or firearms, see
Ch. 133
   Throwing harmful substances or shooting at people, see
Ch. 134
   Using insulting or profane words or writing against people, see
Ch. 133
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any intentional, willful or unlawful attempt or offer with force
or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any intentional, willful or unlawful use of force or violence
upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with another
without consent.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the jurisdiction of the town. Any person committing an assault
or an assault and battery within the jurisdiction of the town shall be guilty
of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) Penalty, see §
131.99
MINORS
§ 131.15 CURFEW; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. An errand in which one is seeking to contact a
practitioner of the healing arts, to fill a prescription, to seek aid from the
fire or police authorities of the town or for a purpose similar to any of
these.
   (B)   Restrictions. Except as hereinafter provided, within the limits of the
town between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day on
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of each week and between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day on Friday and Saturday of
each week, no person under the age of majority, 18 years, shall idle, play,
stroll or wander about, in or upon the:
      (1)   Alleys, roadways and streets;
      (2)   Parks, playgrounds or other public grounds;
      (3)   Places of amusement or entertainment;
      (4)   Public places or public buildings;
      (5)   Unoccupied residences or buildings;
      (6)   Vacant lots; or
      (7)   Other unsupervised places.
   (C)   Exemptions. A person is exempt from the provisions in division (B)
above if he or she is:
      (1)   Engaged upon an emergency errand;
      (2)   Engaged in the performance of his or her employment duties;
      (3)   Traveling directly to or from his or her place of employment and
residence;
      (4)   Upon legitimate business; or
      (5)   In attendance upon a regularly-scheduled performance or function at
a park, playground or other public ground, a place of amusement or
entertainment or a public place or public building.
(Prior Code, § 10-413) (Ord. 2012-01, passed 4-10-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 PREVENTING ACCESS TO TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      TOBACCO VENDING MACHINE. Includes any machine or device designated for
use or used for the vending of cigarettes, cigars, tobacco or tobacco products
upon the insertion of coins, trade, checks or slugs.
   (B)   Sale and furnishing of tobacco products to minors.
      (1)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish in
any manner any tobacco product to any person under the age of 18 or to purchase
in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such person. It shall not be
unlawful for an employee under 18 years of age to handle tobacco products when
required in the performance of the employee’s duties.
      (2)   Proof of age.
         (a)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products
shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if an
ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective
purchaser may be under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Proof of age includes a driver’s license or other government-
issued photo identification purporting to establish that the purchaser was 18
or older, and the defendant confirmed the validity of the driver’s license or
other government-issued photo identification presented by the purchaser by
performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction device.
         (c)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and reasonably
relied upon proof of age shall be a defense, provided, however, that this
defense is not available if said defendant failed to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture appearing
on the license or identification used was that of the person who presented it.
   (C)   Tobacco vending machines. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
manager of any building or business, or any other person in lawful possession
or control of the space upon which a tobacco vending machine sits, to permit or
allow to be operated a tobacco vending machine unless:
      (1)   The machine is located in an area not accessible to persons under
18 years of age; or
      (2)   (a)   The machine is located in a workplace where the general
public is not usually admitted and where such machines are for the use of the
employees therein.
         (b)   In such cases, it shall be the responsibility of the owner or
manager of any building or business and any other person in lawful possession
of said machine to bar access to the machine by persons under 18 years of age.
   (D)   Display of tobacco age restriction signage.
      (1)   Verbiage. Any person who sells or displays tobacco products at
retail must post conspicuously at the place of business a sign stating the
following.
 
It is the law. We do not sell tobacco products to persons under 18 years of
age.
 
      (2)   Number for reporting. This sign shall also provide a toll-free
telephone number for the purpose of reporting violations of the Prevention of
Youth Access to Tobacco Act, being 63 O.S. §§ 1-229.1 et seq.
   (E)   Public access to tobacco products.
      (1)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to display or offer for
sale tobacco products in any manner which allows public access to the tobacco
product without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or an
employee or owner of the store.
      (2)   Exception. If the business does not admit into the store persons
under 18 years of age, then this division (E) does not apply.
   (F)   Tobacco paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or
furnish in any manner to a person under the age of 18 years any material or
device used in the smoking, chewing or other method of consumption of tobacco,
including cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of all types
and other items designed primarily for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco
products.
   (G)   Vapor products.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (G), the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         CIGARETTE.
            1.   Any product which contains nicotine, is intended to be burned
or heated under ordinary conditions of use and consists of or contains:
               a.   Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance
not containing tobacco; or
               b.   Tobacco, in any form, that is functional in the product
which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filter or its
packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to or purchased by consumers as
a cigarette.
            2.   The term CIGARETTE includes “roll your own,” that is, any
tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or labeling, is
suitable for use and likely to be offered to or purchased by consumers as
tobacco for making cigarettes. For the purpose of this definition of CIGARETTE,
nine one-hundredths of an ounce of “roll your own” tobacco shall constitute one
individual CIGARETTE.
         PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation,
trust or association, however formed.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only or
other generally-accepted means of identification which describes the individual
as 18 years of age or older, contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
         SAMPLE. A tobacco product or vapor product distributed to members of
the public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
         SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a
public place.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product which contains or is derived from tobacco
and is intended for human consumption, excluding drugs or devices approved for
cessation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. This includes e-cigarettes
and vapor products, with or without nicotine.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver’s license or other
government-issued photo identification.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale or entry which is capable of deciphering in an
electronically-readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s license or other government-issued photo identification.
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Noncombustible products which may or may not contain
nicotine that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit
or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, which can be used to produce a
vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCTS shall include any vapor
cartridge or other container, with or without nicotine, or other form which is
intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe or a similar product or device. VAPOR PRODUCTS do
not include any products regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
under Ch. V of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq.
      (2)   Furnishing or sale of tobacco and vapor products to minors.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any
manner any tobacco, tobacco product or vapor product to another person who is
under 18 years of age or to purchase in any manner tobacco, a tobacco product
or vapor product on behalf of any such person.
         (b)   It shall not be unlawful for an employee under 18 years of age
to handle tobacco, tobacco products or vapor products when required in the
performance of the employee’s duties.
         (c)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco, tobacco
products or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of
appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than 18 years of age. If
an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco, tobacco products
or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient who is not under 18 years of age, then the failure to subsequently
require proof of age shall not constitute a violation of this division (G)(2).
         (d)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and reasonably
relied upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to
this division (G)(2). A person cited for violating this division (G)(2) shall
be deemed to have reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall
not be found guilty of the violation, if such person proves that:
            1.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
or vapor product presented a driver’s license or other government-issued photo
identification purporting to establish that such individual was 18 years of age
or older; or
            2.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of
the driver’s license or other government-issued photo identification presented
by such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction
scan device, provided that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this division (G)(2) if the person failed to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and
picture appearing on the driver’s license or other government-issued photo
identification was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of
the defense described in this division (G)(2)(c) does not affect the
availability of any other defense under any other provision of law.
      (3)   Receipt of tobacco and vapor products by minors. It is unlawful for
any person who is under 18 years of age to have in his or her possession a
tobacco product or vapor product or to present or offer to any person any
purported proof of age which is false or fraudulent for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving any tobacco product or vapor product. It shall not be
unlawful for an employee under 18 years of age to handle tobacco products or
vapor products when required in the performance of the employee’s duties.
      (4)   Distribution of tobacco and vapor product samples.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco or tobacco product samples or vapor product
samples to any person under 18 years of age.
         (b)   No person shall distribute tobacco, tobacco product samples or
vapor product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk or park which is
within 300 feet of any playground, school or other facility when the facility
is being used primarily by persons under 18 years of age.
      (5)   Public access to displayed tobacco and vapor products. It is
unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for sale tobacco
products or vapor products in any manner which allows public access to the
tobacco products or vapor products without assistance from the person
displaying the tobacco products or vapor products or an employee or the owner
of the store. The provisions of this division (G)(5) shall not apply to retail
stores which do not admit into the store persons under 18 years of age.
      (6)   Report of violations; compliance checks.
         (a)   Any conviction for a violation of this division (G) and any
compliance checks conducted by the Police Department pursuant to division (G)
(6)(b) below shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws
Enforcement (ABLE) Commission within 30 days of the conviction or compliance
check. Such reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE
Commission. Convictions shall be reported by the Court Clerk or his or her
designee and compliance checks shall be reported by the Police Chief or his or
her designee.
         (b)   Persons under 18 years of age may be enlisted by the Police
Department to assist in the enforcement of this division (G) pursuant to the
rules of the ABLE Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-310) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 10-14-2014) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
131.15(A) of this chapter shall be fined not less than $20, including costs.
(Prior Code, § 10-413)
   (C)   (1)   Violations of §
131.16(C) of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200, by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Violations of §
131.16(D) of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200, by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (3)   Violations of §
131.16(E) of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200, by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (4)   Violations of §
131.16(F) of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200, by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (5)   (a)   Any violation of §
131.16(G)(2)(a) or (G)(2)(b) of this chapter is an offense against the town;
upon conviction of any such offense, the violator shall be punished as follows:
            1.   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
            2.   Not more than $200 for the second offense within a two-year
period following the first offense; and
            3.   Not more than $300 for the third or subsequent offense within
a two- year period following the first offense.
         (b)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a
continued sentence for a violation of §
131.16(G)(3)(a) of this chapter, the total of any fines, fees or costs shall
not exceed the following:
            1.   For a first offense, $100; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent offense within a one-year period
following the first offense, $200.
         (c)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a
continued sentence for a violation of §
131.16(G)(4)(a) or (G)(4)(b) of this chapter, the total of any fines, fees or
costs shall not exceed the following:
            1.   For the first offense, $100;
            2.   For the second offense, $200; and
            3.   For the third or subsequent offense, $300.
         (d)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a
continued sentence for a violation of §
131.16(G)(5) of this chapter, the total of any fines, fees or costs shall not
exceed $200 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-310)
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 9-10-2009; Ord. 2012-01, passed 4-10-2012; Ord. 2014-03,
passed 10-14-2014)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
Section
   
132.01   Possessing or transporting alcoholic beverages
   
132.02   Intoxicating liquors
   
132.03   Public drinking and intoxication
   
132.04   Marijuana and drug paraphernalia
   
132.05   Synthetic marijuana
   
132.06   Nudity, improper dress and indecent exposure
   
132.07   Obscenity
   
132.08   Prostitution
   
132.09   Sleeping in public
   
132.10   Begging
   
132.11   Gambling
   
132.12   Being about a place where gambling is occurring
   
132.13   Vagrancy
   
132.14   Disorderly houses
   
132.15   Maintaining or leasing a disorderly house
   
132.16   Residents and visitors to a disorderly house
   
132.17   Harmful deception
   
132.18   Swindling
   
132.19   False or bogus checks
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 POSSESSING OR TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to be in
possession of any intoxicating or nonintoxicating alcoholic beverage while such
person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place within
the town limits.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
21 years to permit such person to be in possession of an intoxicating alcoholic
beverage.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating beverage except in the original container, which shall not have
been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been
removed, unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment.
The REAR TRUNK OR COMPARTMENT shall include the spare tire compartment in a
station wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible
to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, “intoxicating beverage” and
“nonintoxicating beverage” shall be as defined in
Ch. 115 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-402) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   It is unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind,
except as permitted by law;
   (B)   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage, except as permitted by law, or to transport
or in any manner convey from place to place in the town any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage, except as permitted by law;
   (C)   To loiter in a place where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
   (D)   To keep, maintain or aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 10-403) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 PUBLIC DRINKING AND INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      STATE OF INTOXICATION. The condition in which a person is under the
influence of any intoxicating, nonintoxicating, spirituous, vinous or malt
liquors, or of any narcotic or drug, to such an extent so as to deprive the
person of his or her full physical or mental power, or in which a person is a
danger to himself, herself or others.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in
any street, alley or other public place in the town in a state of intoxication.
(Prior Code, § 10-401) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 MARIJUANA AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Possession; paraphernalia.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
            1.   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are
used or intended for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, being 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq., including,
but not limited to:
               a.   Kits used or intended for use in the planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which is a
controlled dangerous substance or from which a controlled dangerous substance
can be derived;
               b.   Kits used or intended for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
dangerous substances;
               c.   Isomerization devices used or intended for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled dangerous
substance;
               d.   Test equipment used or intended for use in identifying or
in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled dangerous
substances;
               e.   Scales and balances used or intended for use in weighing or
measuring controlled dangerous substances;
               f.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose, used or intended for use in cutting
controlled dangerous substances;
               g.   Separation gins and sifters used or intended for use in
removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining, marijuana;
               h.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used
or intended for use in compounding controlled dangerous substances;
               i.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used or
intended for use in packaging small quantities of controlled dangerous
substances;
               j.   Containers and other objects used or intended for use in
parenterally injecting controlled dangerous substances into the human body;
               k.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used or
intended for use in parenterally injecting controlled dangerous substances into
the human body;
               l.   Any pipe that has a tobacco bowl or chamber of less than
one- half inch in diameter in which there is any detectable residue of
marijuana or any other controlled dangerous substance, as defined in this
division (A), or any other substances not legal for possession or use;
               m.   All hidden or novelty pipes; and
               n.   Objects used or intended for use in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human
body, such as:
                  i.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes, with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured
metal bowls;
                  ii.   Water pipes;
                  iii.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
                  iv.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
                  v.   ROACH CLIPS, meaning objects used to hold burning
material, such as a marijuana cigarette, which has become too small or too
short to be held in the hand;
                  vi.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
                  vii.   Chamber pipes;
                  viii.   Carburetor pipes;
                  ix.   Electric pipes;
                  x.   Air-driven pipes;
                  xi.   Chillums;
                  xii.   Bongs; or
                  xiii.   Ice pipes or chillers.
            2.   This is provided, however, that the term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
shall not include separation gins intended for use in preparing tea or spice,
clamps used for constructing electrical equipment, water pipes designed for
ornamentation in which no detectable amount of an illegal substance is found or
pipes designed and used solely for smoking tobacco.
         MARIJUANA.
            1.   All parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or
not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin.
            2.   MARIJUANA shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oils or cakes made from the seeds of such
plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks, except for the resin extracted therefrom,
fibers, oils or cakes or the sterilized seeds of such plant which are incapable
of germination.
      (2)   Unlawful use or possession.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly use or possess
marijuana or to deliver, possess or manufacture any such controlled dangerous
substance or paraphernalia. At the officer’s discretion, this charge may be
filed in Municipal Court if the amount of substance is determined to be
considered personal use, which includes any testable amount of marijuana. If
the officer deems it necessary, these charges may be filed through District
Court.
         (b)   At no time will an individual of the age of 17 or under or an
officer employed at the Town Police Department have the option of any marijuana
or paraphernalia charges being filed through Municipal Court. All individuals
who fall into this age bracket and below will be filed through District Court.
      (3)   Drug paraphernalia; factors used in determining. In determining
whether an object is “drug paraphernalia,” a court or officer shall consider,
in addition to all other logically-relevant factors, the following:
         (a)   Statements by the owner, or by anyone in control of the object,
concerning its use;
         (b)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act;
         (c)   The proximity of the object to controlled dangerous substances;
         (d)   The existence of any residue of controlled dangerous substances
on the object;
         (e)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons who intend to use
the object to facilitate a violation of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous
Substances Act; the innocence of the owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, as to a direct violation of this Act shall not prevent a finding that
the object is drug paraphernalia;
         (f)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object which
either state directly or imply that the object is to be used for the
consumption of controlled substances;
         (g)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use as an object for the consumption of controlled substances;
         (h)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (i)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (j)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object or objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (k)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
         (l)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
      (4)   Exemption for prescription orders. This division (A) shall not
apply to any marijuana lawfully obtained or authorized by a valid prescription
order from a licensed physician while acting in the course of his or her
professional services.
(Prior Code, § 10-404)
   (B)   Marijuana offenses.
      (1)   Consumption of marijuana in public prohibited.
         (a)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
            PUBLIC. Shall mean:
               a.   In or upon any public way or public right-of-way, whether
in a vehicle or not;
               b.   On any property or in any building which is owned, leased,
used by or open to the public; or
               c.   In or upon those portions of any private property upon
which the public has an express or implied license to enter or remain.
         (b)   No person shall consume any marijuana in public.
         (c)   No person shall drive or sit in the driver’s seat of any motor
vehicle, other than one licensed to carry passengers for hire, in which a
violation of division a. of the definition of “public” above is occurring.
      (2)   Public nuisance.
         (a)   1.   No person, tenant, occupant or property owner shall permit
the emission of marijuana odor from any source to result in detectable odors
that leave the premises upon which they originated and interfere with the
reasonable and comfortable use and enjoyment of another’s property.
            2.   Whether or not a marijuana odor emission interferes with the
reasonable and comfortable use and enjoyment of a property shall be measured
against the objective standards of a reasonable person of normal sensitivity. A
marijuana odor emission shall be deemed to interfere with the reasonable and
comfortable use and enjoyment of property if marijuana is detectable outside of
the premises.
         (b)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner which
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration which
is detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
         (c)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this division (B)
unless the Town Board of Trustees or an agent of the Board has delivered or
posted a written warning in the previous 12 months that conduct violating this
division (B) is occurring or has occurred.
            1.   The person, tenant, occupant or property owner must abate the
marijuana odor emission within seven days after the warning is delivered or
posted.
            2.   Seven or more days after a warning is posted or delivered, a
separate violation of this division (B) occurs on each day the marijuana odor
emission repeats or continues.
            3.   The warning shall cite this division (B).
            4.   The warning may be delivered personally or posted on the
property.
            5.   It shall be presumed that a person charged under this division
(B) received the warning if the warning was either:
               a.   Delivered to the property owner, a tenant or an occupant;
or
               b.   Posted on the property.
(Prior Code, § 9-504)
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 5-4-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 11-8-2018) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and cited as the “Town of Calera
Ordinance Banning Synthetic Marijuana.”
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to control and regulate any
form of synthetic marijuana within the town and to provide rules and guidelines
to facilitate the enforcement thereof.
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA.
         (a)   A psychoactive designer drug derived of natural herbs sprayed
with synthetic chemicals which, when consumed, mimic the pleasurable effects of
marijuana. It is now being possessed, distributed and sold under several names,
including, but not limited to, Incense, Potpourri, Spice, K-2 and Blaze.
         (b)   63 O.S. § 2-204(f), as annotated, defines synthetic marijuana as
any quantity of a synthetic chemical compound which is a cannabinoid receptor
agonist and mimics the pharmacological effect of naturally-occurring
substances, including the following.
JWH-004    JWH-007 JWH-009 JWH-015       JWH-016
JWH-018    JWH-019 JWH-020 JWH-030       JWH-046
JWH-047    JWH-048 JWH-049 JWH-050       JWH-070
JWH-071    JWH-072 JWH-073 JWH-076       JWH-079
JWH-080    JWH-081 JWH-082 JWH-094       JWH-096
JWH-098    JWH-116 JWH-120 JWH-122       JWH-145
JWH-146    JWH-147 JWH-148 JWH-149       JWH-150
JWH-156    JWH-167 JWH-175 JWH-180       JWH-181
JWH-182    JWH-184 JWH-185 JWH-189       JWH-192
JWH-193    JWH-194 JWH-195 JWH-196       JWH-197
JWH-198    JWH-199 JWH-200 JWH-201       JWH-202
JWH-203    JWH-204 JWH-205 JWH-206       JWH-207
JWH-208    JWH-209 JWH-210 JWH-211       JWH-212
JWH-213    JWH-234 JWH-235 JWH-236       JWH-237
JWH-239    JWH-240 JWH-241 JWH-242       JWH-243
JWH-244    JWH-245 JWH-246 JWH-248       JWH-249
JWH-250    JWH-251 JWH-252 JWH-253       JWH-262
JWH-292    JWH-293 JWH-302 JWH-303       JWH-304
JWH-305    JWH-306 JWH-307 JWH-308       JWH-311
JWH-312    JWH-313 JWH-314 JWH-315       JWH-316
JWH-346    JWH-348 JWH-363 JWH-364       JWH-365
JWH-367    JWH-368 JWH-369 JWH-370       JWH-371
JWH-373    JWH-386 JWH-387 JWH-392       JWH-394
JWH-395    JWH-397 JWH-398 JWH-399       JWH-400
JWH-412    JWH-413 JWH-414 JWH-415       CP-55, 940
CP-47, 497 HU-210  HU-211  WIN-55, 212-2 AM-2201
 
   (D)   Regulation. The advertisement, sale, distribution, possession or usage
of synthetic marijuana is hereby prohibited within the town.
   (E)   Violation.
      (1)   Any person or entity which violates the prohibitions contained in
this section shall be considered a violation of this section and shall be
subject to the penalties hereinafter provided.
      (2)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a
business location who fails to comply with the provisions of this section shall
be considered a violation of this section and shall be subject to the penalties
hereinafter provided.
      (3)   The possession, sale, distribution or use of each separate package
of synthetic marijuana shall constitute and be punished as a separate
occurrence and infraction of this section.
      (4)   A violation of the provisions of this section by selling, marketing
or distributing synthetic marijuana shall constitute a nuisance in the town.
   (F)   Prosecution.
      (1)   At the officer’s discretion, this charge may be filed in Municipal
Court if the amount of substance is determined to be considered personal use,
which includes any testable amount of synthetic marijuana.
      (2)   If the officer deems it necessary, these charges may be filed
through District Court.
      (3)   At no time will an officer employed at the Town Police Department
have the option of prosecuting charges for the sale, distribution, possession
or use of synthetic marijuana or of any paraphernalia commonly used with such
drug against an individual who is 17 years of age or under. All individuals who
fall into this age bracket and below will be filed through District Court.
(Prior Code, § 10-421) (Ord. 2012-05, passed 8-14-2012) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 NUDITY, IMPROPER DRESS AND INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   (C)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 10-409) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
      DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material, any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial
representation, any statue or other figure, any recording, transcription or
mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully-opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
      OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
         (a)   The predominant appeal of the matter, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interests, such as a shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct,
nudity or excretion;
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently-offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S.; and
         (c)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
      PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other
exhibition performed before an audience.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
      SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hosting and hostessing, hat-checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table
setting and clearing, waitering and waitressing and entertaining.
(Prior Code, § 10-410)
   (B)   Prohibited obscene conduct.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
         (b)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
which promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
         (c)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public;
         (d)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner so as to expose to
public view:
            1.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
            2.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
            3.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
         (e)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above-listed
unlawful acts.
      (2)   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of
any motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
projectionist, assistant projectionist, usher or cashier, provided that such
person has no financial interest in the motion picture theater and so long as
that person is not acting as director or manager of the theater.
(Prior Code, § 10-411)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises while knowing that they are to be used for the
practice of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with
such knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
   (B)   Prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for the purpose of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      (6)   Be party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
in the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-405) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.09 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC.
   It is unlawful for any person to sleep on any street, in any other public
place or on any property of another without the express or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge of such place between the hours of 12:00 a.m.,
midnight, and 6:00 a.m. It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the
premises of any public or private school or other public building or in or
about a depot of a public carrier.
(Prior Code, § 10-414) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.10 BEGGING.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency, except for an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose,
or one of whose purposes, is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code, § 10-415) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.11 GAMBLING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or an agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      (1)   To play, to open or cause to be opened or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette or
craps, or any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      (2)   To set up, operate or permit to be operated any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing
of value is played when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      (3)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      (4)   To knowingly permit his, her or its premises, house, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
   (B)   It is unlawful and an offense against the town for any person to play
any roulette wheel, slot machine or any other device or machine wherein the
element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks or
any other representative of value.
(Prior Code, § 10-416) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-108
§ 132.12 BEING ABOUT A PLACE WHERE GAMBLING IS OCCURRING.
   It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity where a
person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot
machine or other device or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 10-417) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.13 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a VAGRANT means any person who
loiters or remains in or who wanders about a public or private place for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      (2)   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution, soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      (3)   For the purpose of engaging in theft or of breaking and entry into
any building, property or automobile of another;
      (4)   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      (5)   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      (6)   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for a bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organization with the authorization of such
organization; or
      (7)   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code, § 10-412) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.14 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   A DISORDERLY HOUSE means any structure or vehicle by which the peace,
comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the
people therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
   (A)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled dangerous
substance the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is declared
unlawful by state statute;
   (B)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the town or statutes of the
state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
   (C)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or town ordinance, including, but not limited to, soliciting for the purpose of
prostitution; or
   (D)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(Prior Code, § 10-406) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.15 MAINTAINING OR LEASING A DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining, a disorderly house.
   (B)   (1)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of the same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house.
      (2)   Knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(Prior Code, § 10-407) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.16 RESIDENTS AND VISITORS TO A DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into or remain
in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the
town shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and
not by circumstantial evidence.
   (B)   Exemption. This section shall not apply to physicians or officers in
the discharge of their professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-408) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or a
third party or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 10-418) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.18 SWINDLING.
   It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person, persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception or cheating or by any other
fraudulent act.
(Prior Code, § 10-420) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.19 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to obtain or attempt to obtain from any
person, firm or corporation, with the intent to cheat and defraud, any money,
property or valuable thing of the value of $50 or less by means of any false or
bogus check or by any other written, printed or engraved instrument or spurious
coin.
   (B)   The term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders given for
money or property which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the
maker to pay the same, as against the maker or drawer thereof. The making,
drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order the payment of which
is refused by the drawee shall be prima facie evidence of the intent to defraud
and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with such bank or other
depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due
thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or order shall be
presented for payment within 30 days after the same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 10-419) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any personal use of marijuana or marijuana products within the town in
violation of §
132.04(B) of this chapter is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public
nuisance.
      (1)   Any person who willfully or knowingly engages in a violation of §
132.04(B) of this chapter or who owns, possesses, controls or has charge of any
parcel of real property in the town upon which a violation of §
132.04(B) of this chapter is maintained, and who has actual knowledge of such
violation, or who would have actual knowledge of such violation after a
reasonable inquiry, shall be subject to the penalties and remedies provided by
this division (B).
      (2)   Any violation of §
132.04(B) of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense for each and
every day the violation occurs or persists.
      (3)   Any person in violation of any provision of §
132.04(B) of this chapter or who causes another person to be in violation of §
132.04(B) of this chapter shall have committed a misdemeanor. In addition, the
violation shall be punishable by a fine of $1,000 for each violation and for
each day the applicable violation continues to persist.
(Prior Code, § 9-504)
   (C)   (1)   Any person or entity violating the provisions of §
132.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a fine of $500 for each such
occurrence.
      (2)   In addition to the civil fines established in this division (C),
three or more violations of §
132.05 of this chapter by a person or entity that owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls a place of business in the town shall be a reason for and
may result in the suspension or revocation of any business license issued for
the premises on which the infractions occurred.
(Prior Code, § 10-421)
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 8-14-2012; Ord. 2018-06, passed 11-8-2018)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
Section
   
133.01   Disturbing the peace
   
133.02   Insulting signs, literature or language
   
133.03   Carrying concealed weapons; exceptions
   
133.04   Reckless conduct with firearms
   
133.05   Discharging firearms; exceptions
   
133.06   Loud noise or music and amplified sounds
   
133.07   Fireworks
   
133.08   Storing or keeping explosives
   
133.09   Smoking in public places and indoor workplaces; exemptions
   
133.10   Tobacco and vapor products on town-owned/operated property
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   DISTURBING THE PEACE is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons, either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of two or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof;
      (9)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner so as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-301) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the town to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device which, in its common
acceptance, is insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the town and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive or insulting language or
literature where a natural consequence of the language or literature is to
cause a breach of the peace or an assault, or where the language or literature,
in its common acceptance, is calculated to cause a breach of the peace or an
assault.
(Prior Code, § 10-302) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his or her
person any pistol, revolver, dagger, Bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade
knife, spring-type knife, metal knuckle or any other dangerous or deadly weapon
or firearm, except for when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted by
state law.
(Prior Code, § 10-305) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1289.1 et seq.
§ 133.04 RECKLESS CONDUCT WITH FIREARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in
his or her possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of
creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great
bodily harm to another and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety
of another person.
(Prior Code, § 10-306) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the town except when
doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself,
another person or property or when otherwise authorized by state law or
ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-307) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC AND AMPLIFIED SOUNDS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any
part of the town by operating, having operated or permitting to be operated any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle or any other device,
with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner so as to emit loud music, noise
or words.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit religious bodies from playing chimes,
bells, carillons or other religious music.
(Prior Code, § 10-308) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      FIREWORKS. Shall have the meaning prescribed by state law, 68 O.S. §
1622.
   (B)   Date and time usage restrictions.
      (1)   It is unlawful to use, shoot or discharge fireworks within the
corporate limits of the town except from July 1 to July 6, and then only
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except for the night of July 4,
on which fireworks are allowed to be fired until 12:00 a.m., midnight.
      (2)   Fireworks will be allowed for New Year’s Eve on December 31 from
10:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      (3)   No fireworks may be used, shot or discharged to endanger life or
property. No fireworks may be used, shot or discharged within 100 feet of U.S.
Highway 69/75 at any time.
   (C)   Special events fireworks shows. Special events fireworks shows can be
allowed in the town limits all year long. A permit is required for each special
event fireworks show. The special event permit will be $25 a day. Needs a
process. Application with code enforcement signed by both CE and Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) (Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 2020-07, passed
10-10-2020) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Bottle rockets prohibited by state law, see 68 O.S. § 1624
   State fireworks licenses required, see 68 O.S. §§ 1621 et seq.
§ 133.08 STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder or any other highly-explosive material or
substance of any kind without having first complied with the laws of the state
for the purposes of selling, storing or keeping such items.
(Prior Code, § 10-304) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND INDOOR WORKPLACES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      INDOOR WORKPLACE.
         (a)   Any indoor place of employment or employment-type service for or
at the request of another individual or individuals or any public or private
entity, whether part-time or full-time and whether for compensation or not.
Such services shall include, without limitation, any service performed by an
owner, employee, independent contractor, agent, partner, proprietor, manager,
officer, director, apprentice, trainee, associate, servant or volunteer.
         (b)   An INDOOR WORKPLACE includes work areas, employee lounges,
restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any
other spaces used or visited by employees and all space between a floor and a
ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows,
regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows, stairways or the like.
The provisions of this section shall apply to such INDOOR WORKPLACE at any
given time, whether or not work is being performed.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed indoor area where individuals other than
employees are invited or permitted. The term is synonymous with the phrase “any
indoor place used by or open to the public.”
      RESTAURANT. Any eating establishment, regardless of seating capacity.
      SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking device.
      STAND-ALONE BAR, STAND-ALONE TAVERN AND CIGAR BAR. An establishment which
derives more than 60% of its gross receipts, subject to verification by
competent authority, from the sale of alcoholic beverages and low-point beer
and into which no person under 21 years of age is admitted, except for members
of a musical band employed or hired as provided in 37A O.S. § 6-114, and which
is not located within, and does not share any common entryway or common indoor
area with, any other enclosed indoor workplace, including a restaurant.
   (B)   Possession of lighted tobacco in certain places prohibited.
      (1)   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance
and dangerous to the public health and is hereby prohibited when such
possession is in any indoor place used by or open to the public, any public
transportation or any indoor workplace, except where specifically allowed by
law.
      (2)   All buildings or portions thereof which are owned or operated by
the state shall be designated as nonsmoking, provided, however, that each
building may have one designated smoking room. As used in this division (B)(2),
BUILDINGS shall not include up to 25% of any hotel or motel rooms rented to
guests if the rooms are properly ventilated so that smoke is not circulated to
nonsmoking areas.
      (3)   All buildings or portions thereof which are owned or operated by a
county or municipal government, at the discretion of the county or municipal
governing body, may be designated as entirely nonsmoking or may be designated
as nonsmoking with one designated smoking room.
      (4)   A smoking room, as provided for in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3)
above:
         (a)   Shall not be used for the conduct of public business;
         (b)   Shall be in a location which is fully-enclosed, directly
exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so that smoke cannot
escape when a door is opened and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of
the building. No smoking exhaust shall be located within 25 feet of any
entrance, exit or air intake; and
         (c)   Shall be verified for compliance with the provisions of this
division (B) by the Department of Central Services for state buildings, by a
County entity designated by the Board of County Commissioners for county
buildings or by the town officer or employee designated by the Town Manager for
town buildings.
      (5)   No smoking shall be allowed within 25 feet of the entrance or exit
of any building specified in divisions (B)(2) or (B)(3) above.
   (C)   Exemptions. The restrictions provided in division (B) above shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   Stand-alone bars, stand-alone taverns and cigar bars;
      (2)   The room or rooms where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games;
      (3)   Up to 25% of the guestrooms at a hotel or other lodging
establishment;
      (4)   Retail tobacco stores predominantly engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental, and in which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption
on the premises;
      (5)   Workplaces where only the owner or operator of the workplace, or
the immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the
workplace, and where the workplace has only incidental public access.
INCIDENTAL PUBLIC ACCESS means that a place of business has only an occasional
person, who is not an employee, present at the business to transact business or
make a delivery. It does not include businesses which depend on walk-in
customers for any part of their business;
      (6)   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access;
      (7)   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers;
      (8)   Private residences and workplaces within private residences, except
that smoking shall not be allowed inside any private residence which is used as
a licensed childcare facility during the hours of operation;
      (9)   Medical research or treatment centers, if smoking is integral to
the research or treatment;
      (10)   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the armed forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to I.R.C. §§ 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19), 26 U.S.C. §§ 501(c)
(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19), when such facility is utilized exclusively by
its members and their families and for the conduct of post or organization
nonprofit operations, except for during an event or activity which is open to
the public; or
      (11)   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant, provided that smoking
shall not be allowed within 15 feet of any exterior public doorway or any air
intake of a restaurant.
   (D)   Designated smoking rooms and areas.
      (1)   An employer not otherwise restricted from doing so under this
section may elect to provide smoking rooms where no work is performed, except
for cleaning and maintenance, during the time the room is not in use for
smoking, provided that each smoking room is fully-enclosed and exhausted
directly to the outside in such a manner that no smoke can drift or circulate
into a nonsmoking area. No exhaust from a smoking room shall be located within
15 feet of any entrance, exit or air intake.
      (2)   If smoking is to be permitted in any space exempted in division (C)
above or in a smoking room pursuant to division (D)(1) above, then such smoking
space must either occupy the entire enclosed indoor space or, if it shares the
enclosed space with any nonsmoking areas, the smoking space shall be fully-
enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with no air from the smoking space
circulated to any nonsmoking area and under negative air pressure so that no
smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area when a door to an adjacent
nonsmoking area is opened. Air from a smoking room shall not be exhausted
within 15 feet of any entrance, exit or air intake. Any employer may choose a
more restrictive smoking policy, including being totally smoke-free.
      (3)   A nursing facility licensed pursuant to the Nursing Home Care Act,
being 63 O.S. §§ 1-1900.1 et seq., may designate smoking rooms for residents
and their guests. Such rooms shall be fully- enclosed and directly exhausted to
the outside, and shall be under negative air pressure so that no smoke can
escape when a door is opened and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of
the building.
      (4)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, until
March 1, 2006, restaurants may have designated smoking and nonsmoking areas or
may be designated as being a totally nonsmoking area.
         (b)   Beginning March 1, 2006, restaurants shall be totally nonsmoking
or may provide nonsmoking areas and designated smoking rooms. Food and
beverages may be served in such designated smoking rooms, which shall be in a
location which is fully-enclosed, directly exhausted to the outside and under
negative air pressure so smoke cannot escape when a door is opened and no air
is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of the building. No exhaust from such room
shall be located within 25 feet of any entrance, exit or air intake. Such room
shall be subject to verification for compliance with the provisions of this
division (D) by the State Department of Health.
   (E)   Posting signs or decals.
      (1)   The person who owns or operates a place where smoking or tobacco
use is prohibited by law shall be responsible for posting a sign or decal at
least four inches by two inches in size at each entrance to the building
indicating that the place is smoke-free or tobacco-free.
      (2)   The responsibility for posting signs or decals shall be as follows:
         (a)   In privately-owned facilities, the owner or lessee, if a lessee
is in possession of the facility, shall be responsible;
         (b)   In corporately-owned facilities, the manager or supervisor of
the facility involved shall be responsible; and
         (c)   In publicly-owned facilities, the manager or supervisor of the
facility shall be responsible.
   (F)   Enforcement. The state or local government agency or the person who
owns or operates a public place shall, at a minimum, do the following in order
to prevent smoking in public places:
      (1)   Post signs at entrances to places where smoking is prohibited which
state that smoking is prohibited or that the indoor environment is free of
tobacco smoke; and
      (2)   Ask smokers to refrain from smoking upon the observation of anyone
violating the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-309) (Ord. 2009-02, passed 9-10-2009) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.10 TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS ON TOWN-OWNED/OPERATED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      INDOOR AREA. Any indoor town-owned or town-operated property. An INDOOR
AREA includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms,
classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by
employees or the public and all space between a floor and a ceiling which is
predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors,
doorways, open or closed windows, stairways or the like. The provisions of this
section shall apply to such INDOOR AREAS at any given time, whether or not work
is being performed.
      OUTDOOR AREA. Any covered area, partially a covered area or area open to
the sky, which is on a property owned or operated by the town.
      RECREATIONAL AREA. Any area which is owned, controlled or used by the
town and open to the general public for recreational purposes, regardless of
any fee or age requirement. The term RECREATIONAL AREA includes, but is not
limited to, parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports fields, golf courses,
walking paths, gardens, hiking trails, bike paths, riding trails, swimming
pools, roller skating and ice skating rinks, beaches surrounding lakes and
skateboard parks.
      TOBACCO-FREE. To prohibit the use of any tobacco product by anyone
anywhere, at any time.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product which contains or is derived from tobacco
and is intended for human consumption, excluding drugs or devices approved for
cessation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et
seq. This includes e-cigarettes and vapor products, with or without nicotine.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Noncombustible products which may or may not contain
nicotine that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit
or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, which can be used to produce a
vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCTS shall include any vapor
cartridge or other container, with or without nicotine, or other form that is
intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe or a similar product or device. VAPOR PRODUCTS do
not include any products regulated by the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
   (B)   Prohibition of tobacco and vapor products on town-owned/operated
property.
      (1)   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance
and dangerous to the public health and is hereby prohibited when such
possession is in any indoor or outdoor areas owned or operated by the town.
      (2)   All buildings and other properties, including indoor and outdoor
areas, owned or operated by the town shall be entirely tobacco-free, to include
all forms of tobacco products, including vapor products.
      (3)   All indoor and outdoor recreational areas owned or operated by the
town shall be entirely tobacco-free, to include all forms of tobacco products,
including vapor products.
   (C)   Posting signs or decals.
      (1)   The town shall be responsible for posting a sign or decal at least
four inches by two inches in size at each entrance of the town-owned or town-
operated property indicating that the property is tobacco-free.
      (2)   The posting of signs or decals is the responsibility of the manager
or supervisor of the town-owned or town-operated facility.
   (D)   Enforcement. The state or local governmental agency shall, at a
minimum, do the following in order to prevent tobacco and vapor product use in
town-owned or town-operated places:
      (1)   Post signs at entrances to town-owned or town-operated places which
state that tobacco use is prohibited; and
      (2)   Ask tobacco users to refrain from using any form of tobacco
products, including vapor products, upon the observation of anyone violating
the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-311) (Ord. 2014-04, passed 10-14-2014) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §
133.07 of this chapter will result in a fine of $215.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
   (C)   Any person who knowingly violates §
133.09 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 10-309)
   (D)   Any person who knowingly violates §
133.10 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine as set by the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-311)
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 9-10-2009; Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 2014-04,
passed 10-14-2014; Ord. 2020-07, passed 10-10-2020)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
134.01   Petit larceny
   
134.02   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
134.03   Throwing injurious substances
   
134.04   Throwing advertising on streets
   
134.05   Placing signs on the property of another
   
134.06   Injuring automobiles and other vehicles
   
134.07   Injuring or destroying buildings and other property
   
134.08   Tampering with or damaging public utilities
   
134.09   Interfering with fire hydrants
   
134.10   Injuring plants or trees
   
134.11   Public streets and trees
   
134.12   Illegal entry
   
134.13   Trespassing
   
134.14   Parking on the property of another
   
134.15   Unlawfully intruding or squatting
 
   
134.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Tampering with meters or damaging utility equipment, see
Ch. 50
§ 134.01 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      PETIT LARCENY. The taking of personal property of a value not exceeding
$50 which is accomplished by fraud or stealth and with the intent to deprive
another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property from the
“person” of another.
   (B)   Prohibition. Petit larceny is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 10-201) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Petit larceny defined, see 21 O.S. §§ 1704 and 1706
§ 134.02 THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light or other property of another, whether public or private, except
in cases where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of
property.
(Prior Code, § 10-205) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive
or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine,
with the intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-210) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or to cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
area any handbill, circular or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 10-209) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 PLACING SIGNS ON THE PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-204) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to start or otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, loiter in or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.07 INJURING OR DESTROYING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, whether real
or personal, public or private, belonging to another, or to use any such
property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to
its use, or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its
owner or any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 10-203) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.08 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe,
wire or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying
gas, water or electricity and belonging to a public utility, whether publicly
or privately owned, in such a manner so as to enable him or her to consume or
use the gas, water or electricity without it passing through the meter, or in
any other way so as to evade payment therefor.
   (B)   It is also unlawful for any person to damage, molest, tamper with or
destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other part of any public utility,
including any telegraph or telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 10-206) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.09 INTERFERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, except for one duly authorized by town
utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department, to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to or connect anything with any fire
hydrant or stop cock belonging to the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other things, or in any
other manner to obstruct access to the fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 10-215) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.10 INJURING PLANTS OR TREES.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the town, or to willfully
or without authority tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or to willfully injure or
destroy any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or
ground.
(Prior Code, § 10-211) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.11 PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the town;
      (2)   Attach any guy wire, telephone, telegraph or electric wire or any
wire to any live tree;
      (3)   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or in any other public premises or grounds within, belonging to or under
the supervision or control of the town;
      (4)   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the town, or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      (5)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the Town Inspector so to do.
   (B)   Any such digging, removing or driveway connection shall be done under
the supervision of the Street Superintendent or Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 10-212) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.12 ILLEGAL ENTRY.
   (A)   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or
into an area or structure on such property, whether such property, area or
structure is public or private, when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or any notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except
for when such entrance is in the line of duty, with the express or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge or otherwise by the authority of law
or ordinance.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another
after having been given notice, whether written or verbal, to leave by the
owner or person in charge.
(Prior Code, § 10-208) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.13 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property which is dedicated to public use and over which
the federal, state or municipal government, or any subdivision thereof,
exercises control.
      TRESPASS.
         (a)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
         (b)   TRESPASS shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner
or other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the
premises by the owner, the agent or employee of the owner or other person in
lawful possession of the premises.
         (c)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on
private property at any time other than during the posted hours of business
operation after having been directed to vacate such premises by a police
officer.
         (d)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to
private property before the posted time of opening for business operations on
the next business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under
the terms of this section.
         (e)   The provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the
owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the
provisions of this division (e) apply unless the hours of business operations
are posted upon such premises.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private
property.
(Prior Code, § 10-213) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.14 PARKING ON THE PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard or property of another
without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by the
authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-214) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.15 UNLAWFULLY INTRUDING OR SQUATTING.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the town any hut, shanty, hovel or other
structure without the authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-207) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who commits larceny as per §
134.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-201)
   (C)   Any person violating §
134.10 of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-211)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
135.01   False alarms
   
135.02   False representations to an officer
   
135.03   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
135.04   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
135.05   Resisting an officer
   
135.06   Resisting a public official
   
135.07   Assault or battery upon a police or other law officer
   
135.08   Removing barricades
   
135.09   Rescuing prisoners
   
135.10   Escaping from custody or confinement
§ 135.01 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department, Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or to knowingly cause the Fire
Department, Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code, § 10-607) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.02 FALSE REPRESENTATIONS TO AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or for any agent or
employee thereof, to knowingly make any material misrepresentation to any
officer, employee or agency of the town government in any official application
to or official dealing or negotiation with such officer or agency, or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-608) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.03 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, to falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of
the town or to exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or
powers of an officer or employee of the town without being so duly authorized.
(Prior Code, § 10-606) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   (A)   An officer of the town making or about to make an arrest or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process in accordance with the
ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or an officer of the town
suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call
upon a person or persons to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing
such process or suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person lawfully thus called upon to assist an
officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-602) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.05 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION OF. In addition to its common meaning, shall include:
         (a)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
         (b)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
         (c)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make
his or her identity known to the arresting officer.
      RESISTING AN OFFICER. The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his or her official capacity and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   It is unlawful to resist, oppose, assault or in any way interfere with
a police officer or any person duly authorized to act as such while such
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his or her official
duties within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.06 RESISTING A PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Police Chief, any other police officer,
the Municipal Judge or any other officer or employee of the town in the
discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to or use abusive
or indecent language toward or about any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-610) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.07 ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON A POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-603) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.08 REMOVING BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by the authority of the town to keep traffic
off of any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 10-609) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.09 RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue or attempt to set at liberty any prisoner or prisoners from any officer
or employee of the town having legal custody of the same or from the town’s
jail or other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner in
any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code, § 10-604) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.10 ESCAPING FROM CUSTODY OR CONFINEMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in the town’s jail or other place of
confinement by the town or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
the authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody.
(Prior Code, § 10-605) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   TECHNICAL CODES
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WORKS
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
      
156.   SIGNS
      
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: TECHNICAL CODES
Section
Electrical Code
   
150.01   Definition
   
150.02   National Electrical Code
   
150.03   Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
   
150.04   Board of Trustees may make special rulings
   
150.05   Permit required; fee and issuance
   
150.06   Inspection fee
Plumbing Code
   
150.20   BOCA Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.21   Additions, insertions and changes to Plumbing Code
   
150.22   Permit required; fee and inspection
Gas Piping Code
   
150.35   National Fuel Gas Code adopted
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Electrician requirements, see
Ch. 111
   Plumber requirements, see
Ch. 111
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. Electrical conductors, metallic raceways, fittings,
devices, fixtures, appliances, apparatus and any electrical material of any
nature, kind or description to be installed within or on any building or
structure.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
Statutory reference:
   State electrical requirements, licensing by state, see 59 O.S. §§ 1680
through 1696
§ 150.02 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this subchapter, with the statutes of the state and any
orders, rules and regulations issued by the authority thereof and with the
approved electrical standards for safety to persons and property.
   (B)   Where no specific standards are prescribed by this subchapter or by
the statutes of the state or any orders, rules or regulations issued by the
authority thereof, conformity with the regulations set forth in the current
issue of the National Electrical Code as approved by the American Insurance
Association shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with the approved
standards for safety to persons or to property.
(Prior Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES, INC.
   (A)   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this subchapter, with the statutes of the state and any
orders, rules and regulations issued by the authority thereof and with the
approved electrical standards for safety to persons and property.
   (B)   Unless a specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved
for installation and use by this subchapter, a statute of the state or any
orders, rules or regulations issued by the authority thereof, conformity with
the standards of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie evidence
of conformity with the approved standards for safety to persons and property.
(Prior Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 BOARD OF TRUSTEES MAY MAKE SPECIAL RULINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the town, by motion or resolution, shall have
the authority to make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the
safeguarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical
installations.
   (B)   In all cases, persons engaged in the installing of electrical
equipment and holding an electrical license must be notified by letter of such
decisions.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
§ 150.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Requirement. It is unlawful for any person to install any electrical
wiring, fixtures or apparatus in or on any building or structure in the
corporate limits of the town or to make extensions to any existing electrical
installations without first securing a permit from the town.
   (B)   Application. Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, and the applicant shall provide such plans,
specifications and other data as may be reasonably required.
   (C)   Fee. The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by motion
or resolution passed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-305) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 INSPECTION FEE.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may prescribe an
inspection fee to be paid to the town when electrical installations are
inspected by the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.20 BOCA PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated as The BOCA Basic/
National Plumbing Code, the latest edition thereof and any revisions or
amendments thereto, as published by The Building Officials and Code
Administrators International, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of
the town for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
BOCA Plumbing Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this code, with additions, insertions and changes, if any, as
prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
Statutory reference:
   Town powers to supervise plumbing, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.
§ 150.21 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section P-100.1 (page 5, second line): Insert the Town of Calera;
   (B)   Section P-104.1 (page 6, second line): Insert the effective date of
the town’s code of ordinances;
   (C)   Section P-114.2 (page 12, third line): Insert “as provided in §
150.22 of the town’s code of ordinances;”
   (D)   Section P-117.4 (page 13, fifth, sixth and seventh lines): Insert
“offense and punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of the town’s code of ordinances;”
   (E)   Section P-118.2 (page 14, fifth line): Insert “fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of ordinances;”
   (F)   Section P-303.2 (page 32, third line): Insert “a distance in feet as
determined by the Town Board of Trustees;” and
   (G)   Section P-308.3 (page 33, second and third lines): Insert “a depth in
feet as determined by the Town Board of Trustees.”
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 150.22 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit from the town.
   (B)   The application for such work must follow the adopted town code.
   (C)   The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by resolution or motion
of the Town Board. Such payment will be made upon application.
   (D)   The inspection of such work must conform to the guidelines set forth
in the town code.
(Prior Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
150.99
GAS PIPING CODE
§ 150.35 NATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   Pamphlet No. 54 published by the National Fire Protection Association,
entitled National Fuel Gas Code, the latest edition thereof, is hereby adopted
and incorporated in this code by reference. The pamphlet shall be in full force
and effect in the town and shall govern the installation of gas piping and gas
appliances in the town. Any violation of the provisions of the pamphlet shall
be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any business,
trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or registration is
required by §§
150.01 through
150.06,
150.20 through
150.22 and
150.35 of this chapter without having a valid license, permit, certificate or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by §§
150.01 through
150.06,
150.20 through
150.22 and
150.35 of this chapter or by any code adopted by §§
150.01 through
150.06,
150.20 through
150.22 and
150.35 of this chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of §§
150.01 through
150.06,
150.20 through
150.22 and
150.35 of this chapter or of any code adopted by §§
150.01 through
150.06,
150.20 through
150.22 and
150.35 of this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order
made by any of the officers provided for in §§
150.01 through
150.06,
150.20 through
150.22 and
150.35 of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-801)
   (C)   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to §§
150.01 through
150.06,
150.20 through
150.22 and
150.35 of this chapter shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply
to the proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other
appropriate action against such person, firm or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-802)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   BOCA Building Code adopted
   
151.03   Additions and changes to Building Code
   
151.04   Building Official
   
151.05   Permit required; fee and issuance
   
151.06   Call utilities before digging
   
151.07   Minimum lot and building size, commercial buildings
   
151.08   Construction requirements, commercial buildings
   
151.09   Commercial and industrial activity in residences restricted;
exceptions
   
151.10   Savings clause
   
151.11   Fire limits defined
   
151.12   Additional requirements
   
151.13   Medical Marijuana Dispensary Distancing; Inspection Required
House Number Display
   
151.25   Title
   
151.26   Purpose
   
151.27   Definitions
   
151.28   Display regulations
   
151.29   Violations
Hydrants, Standpipes and Sprinklers
   
151.40   Hydrants
   
151.41   Sprinklers
   
151.42   Standpipes
   
151.43   Sprinkler support connections
Dilapidated Buildings
   
151.55   Definition
   
151.56   Condemnation notice; hearing and removal
   
151.57   Cost a lien against property
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS. Buildings used or intended to be used for any business
purpose, including storage or warehouses, retail, repair and the like.
Buildings intended for human habitation are not COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS and cannot
be used for commercial purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-107) (Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 151.02 BOCA BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The BOCA Basic/National Building Code, the latest edition thereof, as
published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators International,
Inc., is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the town for the control of
buildings and structures as therein provided.
   (B)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the BOCA Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated
and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this code with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, as prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
Statutory reference:
   Building codes, adoption by towns, see 11 O.S. § 14-107; 74 O.S. § 324.8
§ 151.03 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the BOCA Basic/National Building Code are hereby
revised:
   (A)   Section 100.1: Insert Town of Calera;
   (B)   Section 114.3.1: Insert “The fee schedule shall be in accordance with
the town code, or as may be set or amended by motion or resolution;”
   (C)   Section 117.4: Insert “Offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment as
provided in §
10.99(A) of the town code of ordinances;”
   (D)   Section 118.2: Insert “fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of the town code of ordinances;”
   (E)   Section 123.3: Insert “as set by the Town Board of Trustees;”
   (F)   Section 501.2: Insert “the boundaries of the fire limits as provided
by the Town Board;”
   (G)   Sections 1807.2.1 and 1807.2.2: Insert “a number of feet to be
determined by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution” in both
locations; and
   (H)   Section 1906.1: Insert “Amounts as set by the Town Board of Trustees
by motion or resolution.”
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
§ 151.04 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Building Official of the town shall be appointed by the Town Board
of Trustees and shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the “building
official” by the Town Building Code, provided that his or her powers and duties
may be exercised by his or her authorized representatives under his or her
supervision and control.
   (B)   The term BUILDING INSPECTOR, whenever used in the ordinances of the
town, means the Building Official.
   (C)   The terms ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR, PLUMBING INSPECTOR and GAS INSPECTOR,
wherever used in the ordinances of the town, also each refer to and mean the
Building Official, unless a separate electrical inspector, plumbing inspector
or gas inspector is appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
§ 151.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1)   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered
or moved without a building permit as required by the Town Building Code. A
person desiring a building permit shall submit an application therefor to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit with the application such reasonable
information as the Clerk-Treasurer may require to enable him or her to
determine whether granting the permit would be in accordance with the
requirements of the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   (1)   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, then the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the permit upon
payment by the applicant of a building permit fee, which may be set by motion
or resolution of the Town Board of Trustees.
      (2)   A current copy of the fee schedule shall be kept in the office of
the Town Clerk- Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 5-106) (Ord. 2020-10, passed 12-10-2020) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 CALL UTILITIES BEFORE DIGGING.
   No person shall trench, dig or excavate within the limits of the town
without first having compliant utility locations.
(Prior Code, § 5-110) (Ord. 2020-11, passed 12-10-2020) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 MINIMUM LOT AND BUILDING SIZE, COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   Commercial buildings must be built on lots which are at least 7,500 square
feet. The building must be at least 750 square feet and include at least two
doors.
(Prior Code, § 5-108) (Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS, COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   All commercial buildings must be purpose-built on site. No temporary
buildings may be used for commercial purposes. Commercial buildings measuring
5,000 square feet or more must have a sprinkler system installed.
(Prior Code, § 5-109) (Ord. 2020-09, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY IN RESIDENCES RESTRICTED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   Commercial and industrial activity in residences in the town is restricted
to an area of the residence not to exceed 20% of the total square footage of
the residence, not to exceed 500 square feet. Certain short- term activities
such as garage sales, fireworks stands and the like which require the issuance
of a town permit are hereby granted an exception to this section.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Nothing in §
151.09 of this chapter hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or
proceeding now pending in any court, nor shall any right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired or affected by §
151.09 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 1-14-2021)
§ 151.11 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The fire limits are that part of the town bounded as provided by the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-105)
§ 151.12 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   School bus stop area required. Any housing addition of three or more
units must include a school bus stop area that meets or exceeds town
specifications. The school bus area may be located in the playground area of
any development that requires a playground area.
   (B)   Sidewalks required. Any housing addition of three or more units must
include concrete sidewalks at least four inches thick and five feet wide in the
town easement and meet town requirements for the town to maintain.
   (C)   Playground area required. Any housing addition of 40 or more planned
units must include a dedicated playground area of at least 4,000 square feet
that meets or exceeds town specifications. Developers are not required to
provide playground equipment.
   (D)   Storm siren required. Any housing addition of 40 or more planned units
must include a dedicated area that meets or exceeds the towns specifications
for storm sirens, if testing determines that an audible device is needed in the
area. Testing is to be conducted by a third-party study and must be updated
every five years.
   (E)   Street lights required. Any housing addition of three or more units
must install streetlights at the entrances and exits of the addition and every
380 feet thereafter.
   (F)   Backflow preventers required. Whenever new construction is completed,
or plumbing work is done on a main sewer line, a sewage backflow preventer
device must be installed to prevent the potential of sewage backing up into the
dwelling.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-13-2022)
§ 151.13 MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY DISTANCING; INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Medical Marijuana Dispensary Distancing. 
      (1)   A Medical Marijuana Dispensary Permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet from the nearest entrance to any public or private school,
preschool, or State licensed childcare facility. The distance specified shall
be measured from the entrance of any public or private school, preschool, or
state licensed commercial childcare facility to the nearest entrance of any
leased or owned Medical Marijuana Dispensary facility.
      (2)   A Medical Marijuana Dispensary permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet of any other Medical Marijuana Dispensary. The distance specified
shall be measured from any entrance of a current facility to the nearest
entrance of any leased or owned Medical Marijuana Dispensary facility.
   (B)   Inspection Required. The physical address of the proposed Medical
Marijuana Dispensary will be subject to a property inspection by the Code
Enforcement Officer to ensure compliance with all Town Ordinances. The
applicant is required to be present during the inspection. The fee for such
inspection shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), non-refundable. If the
property does not pass the initial inspection any subsequent inspection shall
be five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2022-10, 11-10-2022)
HOUSE NUMBER DISPLAY
§ 151.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Town of Calera House Number
Display Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 13-601) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-8-2011)
§ 151.26 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a system within the town
whereby the addresses of all premises will be identified and to provide rules
and guidelines to facilitate the enforcement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 13-602) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-8-2011)
§ 151.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   HOUSE NUMBER. The official number assigned to that premises by the County
911 Central Dispatch governing board.
   PREMISES. Any lot or parcel of land owned by any person, firm or
corporation, whether public or private, improved with any type of building or
structure, whether occupied or unoccupied.
   STREET OR ROAD NAME. Any official name as recognized by governmental
agencies.
(Prior Code, § 13-603) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-8-2011)
§ 151.28 DISPLAY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No street or road name shall be changed without the approval of the
Town Board of Trustees and the County 911 Central Dispatch governing board.
   (B)   Every premises shall display the distinctive house number assigned to
that premises by the County 911 Central Dispatch governing board. The
individual digits shall be not less than four inches in height in block-style
letters and shall be in a contrasting color to the background.
   (C)   The house number shall be displayed in one of the following fashions.
      (1)   If the number is displayed on a house, then the number shall be
placed upon the front of the house in such a position so as to be plainly
visible to all traffic coming to the premises from either direction.
      (2)   If a house is more than 50 feet from the improved portion of the
street or road or is not clearly visible from the street or road, then the
number shall be displayed on a sign adjacent to the street or road on which the
property fronts.
      (3)   Such sign shall be attached to a fence or post at a height which
assures that the number will not be obscured by an obstruction of any type.
(Prior Code, § 13-604) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-8-2011) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.29 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The failure to display a house number within 60 days after the
adoption of this subchapter, or in the case of new construction, prior to
enabling town utilities to be turned on, shall be considered a violation of
this subchapter and shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Utilities shall not be turned on until compliance with this subchapter
has been met.
(Prior Code, § 13-605) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-8-2011) Penalty, see §
151.99
HYDRANTS, STANDPIPES AND SPRINKLERS
§ 151.40 HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All new residential Subdivisions will have a Hydrant placed at all
entrances into the Subdivision and a Hydrant every 500 feet within the
Subdivision.
   (B)   Fire Hydrant shall be the CLOW MEDALLION as manufactured by the Clow-
Valve Company or approved equal.
   (C)   All new Hydrants will have NST Threads. All new line will have a line
gauge of at least c900.
   (D)   All new Hydrants or replaced hydrants will have 2-2.5 inch outlets and
1-5 inch Storz outlet (Steamer).
   (E)   All new or replaced Hydrants will have Streamer outlets facing closet
Roadway or Driveway.
   (F)   All new or replaced Hydrants will have a distance from the ground to
the Operating Nut of 24 inches (min).
   (G)   Collapse zone is defined as at the minimum 1.5 times the height of the
building. For example 20 feet high building collapse zone at the minimum will
be 30 feet from Building (NIOSH http://www.cdc.go/niosh/firehome.html).
   (H)   Any new water line off an existing water line will have a Hydrant
placed at the start of that the new line and then one Hydrant every 500 feet.
On all new or replaced waterlines, Hydrants will be placed every 500 feet.
   (I)   Any replaced section of water line due to break or repair that is 500
feet or greater from an existing Hydrant will have a Hydrant placed every 500
feet.
   (J)   A minimum diameter of 6 inches will be required to supply a Hydrant
with water from water lines. All Hydrants will have a shut off valve between
the main water line and the Hydrant.
   (K)   All new commercial or muti-dwelling residential structures will have
at least one Hydrant placed outside of the minimum area of the Collapse zone of
the structure. Hydrant is to be placed if at all possible to cover two sides of
the structure.
   (L)   Collapse zone is defined as at the minimum 1.5 times the height of the
building. For example 20 feet high building collapse zone at the minimum will
be 30 feet from Building (NIOSH http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/firehome.html).
   (M)   All Hydrants will be color Coded in accordance with NFPA 291, Current
edition. All Hydrants will be pained in the following manor. The Barrel of the
Hydrant and Connection Caps will be Silver in color. The Bonnet will be painted
in relation the GPM flow of the Hydrant.
   (N)   All new or replaced Hydrants will be painted Silver when installed.
   (O)   Hydrant flow ratings and color indicators:
      (1)   1 to 499 GPM will be indicated by the Color RED.
      (2)   500 to 999 GPM will be indicated by the Color ORANGE.
      (3)   1,000 to 1,499 GPM will be indicated by the Color GREEN.
      (4)   1500 GPM or greater will be indicated by the Color BLUE.
   (P)   Fire Hydrant Specifications:
      (1)   Fire Hydrant shall be manufactured in accordance with A WW A
Standard C502, be listed by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. and have Factory
Mutual Research approval.
      (2)   Fire Hydrant shall be designed for 250 psi working pressure and
tested to 400 psi Hydrostatic pressure.
      (3)   Fire Hydrant shall be backed by manufacturer's limited warranty.
      (4)   Fire Hydrant shall be dry-top center stem construction having an O-
Ring sealed lubrication reservoir.
      (5)   Fire Hydrant shall be manufactured with operating nut and thrust
nut made of bronze, with bearings located both above and below the thrust
collar and with operating nut protected by a cast-iron weather shield.
      (6)   Fire Hydrant shall be manufactured with nozzles mechanically locked
into the barrel and having O-Ring pressure seals.
      (7)   Fire Hydrant shall be a "Traffic Model", complete with safety
flanges and steel stem coupling. Nozzle section must rotate 360 degrees.
      (8)   Fire Hydrant shall be manufactured with a main valve seat ring of
bronzes threaded into a bronze drain ring. A 360 degree drain channel shall
have a minimum of two drain outlets.
      (9)   Fire Hydrant shall have an upper valve plate and two urethane
rubber facings that activate the drain ports.
      (10)   Fire Hydrant shall be manufactured with a lower valve plate that
bottoms out in the shoe for maximum opening.
      (11)   Fire Hydrant shall be manufactured with a minimum main valve
opening of 4 ½ inches.
      (12)   Fire Hydrant shall be the CLOW MEDALLION as manufactured by the
Clow-Valve Company or approved equal.
(Ord. 2022-07, 7-14-2022)
§ 151.41 SPRINKLERS.
   The City of Calera will adopt the National Fire & Protection Agency #13 and
the Oklahoma State Fire Code, concerning Standpipes and Sprinklers systems for
all Commercial and Multi-Dwelling Residential. The following are additions to
and not deletions from. (Ord. 2022-07, 7-14-2022)
§ 151.42 STANDPIPES.
   (A)   All structures with standpipes will have Standpipe support connections
on all four sides. These connections will be labeled FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
STANDPIPE. These letters will be no less than 1 inch in size. All standpipe
support connections located on the outside of the structure will have 5 inch
Storz.
   (B)   All Standpipe connections in the city Limits of Calera will have NST
threads.
   (C)   All multi-story multi dwellings residential (apartments, hotels,
motels) and multi story commercial will have a standpipe connection on each
floor. This connection will be 2.3 inches in diameter. There will be placed on
the 2.5 inch connection a 2.5 inch to 1.5 inch reducer in place and capped.
There will be a on/off valve handle at least 4 inches in diameter on standpipe.
These connections will be labeled FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION on each floor.
(Ord. 2022-07, 7-14-2022)
§ 151.43 SPRINKLER SUPPORT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All structures with sprinkler systems will have Sprinkler support
connections. These connections will be labeled FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
SPRINKLER. These letters will be no less than one inch in size.
   (B)   All Sprinkler support connections in the City Limits of Calera will be
five inch Storz.
   (C)   All new Commercial and multi-dwelling residential will have to submit
building plans to the Oklahoma State Fire Marshal's Office for compliance to
NFPA #13 and the Oklahoma State Fire Code.
   (D)   NST=National Standard Threads.
(Ord. 2022-07, 7-14-2022)
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
§ 151.55 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING. The neglect of necessary repairs to a building or
allowing it to fall into a state of decay, or allowing it to fall into partial
ruin to such an extent that the building is a hazard to the health, safety or
welfare of the general public.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-112
§ 151.56 CONDEMNATION NOTICE; HEARING AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   After 15 days’ notice by the town to the property owner by posting
upon certain property within the town limits of the town, and by written notice
to the owner thereof by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the
address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office,
and by mailing notice to any mortgage holder as shown by the records in the
office of the County Clerk to the last known address of the mortgagee, a
hearing may be held by the Board of Trustees of the town to determine whether
the property is dilapidated and has thereby become detrimental to the health,
benefit and welfare of the public and the community or creates a fire hazard to
the danger of property.
   (B)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property requires such a
conclusion and that the property would be benefitted by the removal of such
conditions, the Board of Trustees may cause the dilapidated building to be torn
down and removed and shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and
completion of the work. For such purpose, the agents of the town are hereby
granted the right of entry of such property for the performance of the
necessary duties as a governmental function of the town if the work is not
performed by the property owner within the dates fixed by the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-602)
§ 151.57 COST A LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall determine the actual cost of such
dismantling and removal of a dilapidated building and of such other expenses as
may be necessary in connection therewith, including the cost of notice and
mailing, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward to the property owner by
certified mail, with return receipt requested, at the address shown by the
current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office, and by mailing
notice to any mortgage holder as shown by the records in the County Clerk’s
office to the last known address of the mortgagee, a statement of such actual
cost and demand payment thereof, provided that if the dismantling and removal
of the dilapidated building is done on a private contract basis, then it shall
be awarded to the lowest and best bidder. If the dismantling and removal of the
dilapidated building is done by the town, then the cost to the property owner
shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance and equipment
required for the dismantling and removal of the dilapidated building.
   (B)   If payment is not made within six months from the date of such
mailing, then the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of such cost to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property is located, and the same shall be levied on the property and collected
by the county treasurer as other taxes authorized by law.
   (C)   Such cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer, coequal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments
and prior and superior to all other titles and liens against such property, and
such lien shall continue until such cost shall be fully paid.
(Prior Code, § 5-603) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Except as addressed in division (F) below, a person who violates a
provision of §§
151.01 through
151.11 of this chapter or fails to comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters, repairs or removes, or
who has erected, constructed, altered, repaired or removed, a building or
structure in violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted and approved
thereunder or of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, or who erects,
constructs, alters, repairs or removes, or who has erected, constructed,
altered, repaired or removed, a building or structure without first acquiring a
permit shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of $215. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
   (C)   (1)   Except as addressed in division (F) below, any person, firm or
corporation who shall engage in any business, trade or vocation for which a
license, permit, certificate or registration is required by §§
151.01 through
151.11 and
151.55 through
151.57 of this chapter without having a valid license, permit, certificate or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by §§
151.01 through
151.11 and
151.55 through
151.57 of this chapter or by any code adopted by §§
151.01 through
151.11 and
151.55 through
151.57 of this chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of §§
151.01 through
151.11 and
151.55 through
151.57 of this chapter or of any code adopted by §§
151.01 through
151.11 and
151.55 through
151.57 of this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order
made by any of the officers provided for in §§
151.01 through
151.11 and
151.55 through
151.57 of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-801)
      (2)   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to §§
151.01 through
151.11 and
151.55 through
151.57 of this chapter shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply
to the proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other
appropriate action against such person, firm or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-802)
   (D)   Any person who builds, enlarges, alters or moves a building or
structure without the required permit as per §
151.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of $215. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-106)
   (E)   Regarding §
151.06 of this chapter, any person who trenches, digs or excavates within the
limits of the town and strikes a utility, water, gas or other buried service
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished by a
fine of $215.
(Prior Code, § 5-110)
   (F)   A person who violates §§
151.09 or
151.10 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of $215. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
151.25 through
151.29 of this chapter shall first be given a warning. After the first warning,
any person, firm or corporation continuing to violate the provisions of §§
151.25 through
151.29 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. Such
fine shall be at the discretion of the Court. Each and every day during which
such violation continues shall be considered as a separate and distinct
violation hereof and may be charged and prosecuted as such. The above-specified
penalties may be imposed for each such violation.
(Prior Code, § 13-606)
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-8-2011; Ord. 2020-10, passed 12-10-2020; Ord. 2020-11,
passed 12-10-2020; Ord. 2021-04, passed 1-14-2021)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WORKS
Section
Use and Obstruction of Streets
   
152.01   Trimming trees and shrubbery required
   
152.02   Injuring trees and shrubbery unlawful
   
152.03   Obstructing sidewalks and rights-of-way unduly unlawful
   
152.04   Obstructing sidewalks and rights-of-way with merchandise unlawful
   
152.05   Playing on streets unlawful
   
152.06   Depositing trash unlawful
   
152.07   Discharging water from filling stations and other businesses unlawful
   
152.08   Permitting hazardous sidewalk or sidewalk-area conditions unlawful
   
152.09   Interfering with drainage through right-of-way obstructions unlawful
   
152.10   Signs over streets and alleys prohibited; exceptions
   
152.11   Street excavation
   
152.12   Permit required and cost
Construction over Ditches and Canals
   
152.25   Permit required; application
   
152.26   Permit issuance
   
152.27   Expiration of permit
   
152.28   Site inspections
   
152.29   Standards of design and construction
 
   
152.99   Penalty
USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
§ 152.01 TRIMMING TREES AND SHRUBBERY REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the town shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking and between the sidewalks
and the roadway of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
a manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and
convenient passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. When
such premises are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant
shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required
of the owner. Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest
branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a
street or alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the
trees and shrubbery as provided in division (A) above after receiving five
days’ notice from the head of the department in charge of streets to do so
shall be guilty of an offense against the town. Every day that the owner or
occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery after the
expiration of the five days’ notice shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-101) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBBERY UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town, provided that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 14-102) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDULY UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the town in any
manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Prior Code, § 14-104) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY WITH MERCHANDISE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or permit
to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the town any
goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction and to leave
such thereon, or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade.
(Prior Code, § 14-103) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 PLAYING ON STREETS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the main traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-106) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 DEPOSITING TRASH UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the town any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 14-105) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 DISCHARGING WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease
or other fluids to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 14-107) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 PERMITTING HAZARDOUS SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK-AREA CONDITIONS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 14-108) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 INTERFERING WITH DRAINAGE THROUGH RIGHT-OF-WAY OBSTRUCTIONS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk or alley by placing any approach driveway, or other obstruction or
substance whatsoever, which will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water
into the storm sewers or drains or dam the same so as to back any water upon
the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutters.
(Prior Code, § 14-109) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 SIGNS OVER STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person or persons to stretch any sign
or other thing on, over or across any street or alley within the corporate
limits of the town, except as may be authorized by franchise or permit duly
granted by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 14-110) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 STREET EXCAVATION.
   No individual or entity other than a City of Calera employee at the
direction of the employee's supervisor, or properly licensed and permitted
contractors shall be permitted to intentionally effect, excavate, bore (tunnel)
under or otherwise alter any streets, alleys (right of way), or easements.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 7-14-2022)
§ 152.12 PERMIT REQUIRED AND COST.
   Permits can be acquired at City Hall with the approval of the Director of
Public Works. The cost of a permit shall be set by the Town of Calera Board of
Trustees by motion or resolution.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 7-14-2022)
CONSTRUCTION OVER DITCHES AND CANALS
§ 152.25 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   Prior to the commencement of work on the installation, including
alterations, repairs and replacements, of tinhorns, culverts, bridges,
walkways, driveways, either paved or unpaved, or any type of crossing over,
across or through the drainage ditches and canals within the public streets and
alleys of the town, an application shall be made at the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer for a permit approving the installation.
(Prior Code, § 14-201) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.26 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Upon completion and signing by the applicant of the application adopted and
approved by the Board of Trustees and submission of a preliminary construction
design, the Board or its duly-appointed representative shall, within 48 hours
of the filing of the application, exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays and
holidays recognized by the town, either approve or disapprove in writing the
application and preliminary construction design.
(Prior Code, § 14-202)
§ 152.27 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit holder shall have 90 days within which to complete the approved
installation. Failure to complete the installation as approved within the
period shall render the permit null and void.
(Prior Code, § 14-203)
§ 152.28 SITE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the initial preparation of the site of the improvement but prior
to the covering of any tinhorn or culvert, pouring of concrete or asphalt or
making of other permanent-type improvements, the permit holder shall notify the
Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office that the site is ready for inspection.
   (B)   The inspection shall be conducted and the site and initial preparation
approved or disapproved by the Board or its duly-appointed representative
within 24 hours of the time of receipt of such notice, exclusive of Saturdays
and Sundays and holidays recognized by the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-204)
§ 152.29 STANDARDS OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All installations governed hereby shall be constructed in a first-
class, professional manner, and shall be designed and constructed to provide
for the proper and adequate drainage of waters flowing through the ditches and
canals of the town and shall be consistent with the grade of the ditch or canal
being crossed.
   (B)   All tinhorns and culverts constructed or installed must have an inside
diameter of at least 24 inches unless a written waiver thereof is given by the
Board of Trustees or its representative.
(Prior Code, § 14-205) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any individual or entity who violates this ordinance by intentionally
effecting, excavating, boring (tunnelling) under or otherwise altering any
streets, alleys (right of way), or easements prior to receipt of a permit shall
be punishable by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and in addition
thereto, the individual or entity making the excavation or bore shall pay the
fees for such excavation, as set by the Town Council by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 14-112)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and constitute an offense for any person to
install, alter, repair or replace any tinhorn, culvert, bridge, walkway,
driveway or other type of crossing over, across or through the drainage ditches
and canals within the town without first complying fully with the provisions of
§§
152.25 through
152.29 of this chapter, and it shall further be unlawful and constitute an
offense for any person to cover, fill in, alter, obstruct, destroy or in any
way damage any drainage ditch or canal located within the public streets or
alleys of the town without first complying fully with the provisions of §§
152.25 through
152.29 of this chapter, and each day that work is done or violations continue
shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable by a fine as provided in
§
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 14-206) (Ord. 2022-06, passed 7-14-2022)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Application
   
153.05   Interpretation
   
153.06   Definitions
   
153.07   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.08   Compliance
   
153.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.10   Special flood hazard areas established
   
153.11   Floodplain Administrator; designation, duties and responsibilities
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Permits and Variances
   
153.25   Development permit required
   
153.26   Permit procedures
   
153.27   Fee schedule
   
153.28   Variance procedures generally
   
153.29   Variance special provisions
Standards
   
153.40   Special flood hazard area standards generally
   
153.41   Residential construction standards
   
153.42   Nonresidential construction standards
   
153.43   Enclosure standards
   
153.44   Manufactured home standards
   
153.45   Recreational vehicle standards
   
153.46   Accessory structure standards
   
153.47   Subdivision standards
   
153.48   Floodway provisions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in 11 O.S. §§ 41 through 47, as amended,
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt ordinances
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the town ordains the following,
to become effective immediately.
(Prior Code, § 12-201) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in the loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affects
the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-202) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize the damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner so as to minimize future
flood blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 12-203) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.04 APPLICATION.
   This flood damage prevention chapter shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-206) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.05 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 12-211) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the town
which is subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or BFE. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of
the base flood, or 1% chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade, or below
ground level, on all sides.
   C.F.R. The Code of Federal Regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily-identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or the storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the Town Floodplain Administrator
which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in accordance with
this chapter.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A nonbasement building built, in the case of a building in Zones
AE, A or X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored so as not
to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up to the
magnitude of the base flood.
      (2)   In the case of Zones AE, A or X, ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a
building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or, for FIRMs effective before that date, before January 1, 1975. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, was completed before August 4, 1972.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. An official map of the town on which FEMA
has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium
zones applicable to the town.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by FEMA for the town,
which contains flood profiles and the water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the town subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood-modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See the definition of “flood or flooding.”
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by
the Board of Trustees of the town to administer and implement laws, ordinances
and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency-preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances, such as floodplain, grading and erosion-control regulations and
ordinances, and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas which must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
      (1)   A FLOODWAY is located within areas of special flood hazard as
established in §
153.10 of this chapter.
      (2)   A FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters which carry debris and potential projectiles.
   FUNCTIONALLY-DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities which are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities. The term does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure which is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places, a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior, or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs which have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program, as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including a
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure usable solely for the
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use either with or without
a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel, or contiguous parcels, of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For the purpose of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum to which base flood
elevations shown on the town’s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, including any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
      (2)   For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the Town Board
of Trustees, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, is completed on or after the effective
date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   OWRB. The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   For other than new construction or substantial improvements under
the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, Pub. Law No. 97-348, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvements and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided that the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   The actual start means either the first placement of the permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation.
      (3)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation such as
clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets
or walkways, nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds
which are not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (4)   For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   (a)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement.
         (b)   This includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for the improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the Town Board of Trustees to a person from
the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship. A VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a
manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. For the full requirements, see 44
C.F.R. § 60.6.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this flood damage prevention chapter.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or to other datum, where specified, of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Prior Code, § 12-205) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.07 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 12-204) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-209) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and any
other ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 12-210) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.10 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific
and engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for Bryan County,
Oklahoma and Incorporated Areas,” dated June 2, 2011, with the accompanying
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) were adopted on June 2, 2011, by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   However, until said date, the current effective flood maps for the
town, dated September 30, 1992, were used for this purpose until June 2, 2011.
(Prior Code, § 12-207) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.11 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DESIGNATION, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees of the town designates a Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations
in 44 C.F.R. pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1618, as amended;
      (2)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review and approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter;
      (4)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required;
      (5)   Make the necessary interpretation, where interpretation is needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazard, for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to FEMA;
      (7)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (8)   Require the developer or applicant to determine and provide the
base flood elevation on two FEMA elevation certificates, one pre and one post,
as well as other data as required in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.48 of this chapter;
      (9)   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development, including fill, shall be permitted within Zone AE as
delineated on the county’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the town.
      (10)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the town, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement;
      (11)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the Board of Trustees; and
      (12)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-213) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur, and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages which result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-212) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
PERMITS AND VARIANCES
§ 153.25 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this floodplain management chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-208) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations and existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and of the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
      (2)   Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   The elevation in relation to the mean sea level of the lowest
floor, including the basement, of all new and substantially-improved
structures; and
         (b)   A description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development.
   (B)   The approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including the maintenance and repair of streets and bridges and of
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
that area.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator or Board of Trustees, as applicable, may
approve certain development in Zones A or AE, delineated on the county’s FIRM,
which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one
foot, provided that the applicant for the development permit in that case first
complies with 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Prior Code, § 12-214) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.27 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Town Board of Trustees establishes the following fee schedule, not to
exceed $500 for any one service:
   (A)   Notice of intent fee: $25 maximum;
   (B)   Floodplain development permit application review: $100;
   (C)   Floodplain development permit fee: $25; and
   (D)   Inspection fee, per inspection: $25.
(Prior Code, § 12-221) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may grant variances for uses which do not
satisfy the requirements of the State Floodplain Management Act, 82 O.S. §§
1601 et seq., or this chapter if the applicant for the variance presents
adequate proof that:
         (a)   Compliance with this chapter will result in an arbitrary and
unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or advantage to the
people; and
         (b)   Satisfies the pertinent provisions of this section.
      (2)   However, no variance shall be granted where the effect of the
variance will be to permit the continuance of a condition which unreasonably
creates flooding hazards.
   (B)   Any variance so granted shall not be construed so as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the State Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
   (C)   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than 20
years.
   (D)   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the Board of
Trustees accompanied by a filing fee of $25.
   (E)   (1)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size which is
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, provided that the relevant factors in §
153.26(B) of this chapter and the provisions of this section and §
153.29 of this chapter have been fully considered.
      (2)   As the lot size increases beyond such one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (F)   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Chairperson of the Board
of Trustees which states that:
      (1)   The cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased
risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than the base
flood elevation; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
   (G)   At such time as the Board of Trustees deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the Board of Trustees shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
   (H)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section and
§
153.29 of this chapter.
      (2)   This appeals group shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the
equities involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to
the public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
   (I)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that the failure to grant a variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
      (4)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (J)   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and §
153.29 of this chapter and the intent of this chapter, the Board of Trustees
may attach such conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary
to further the purposes and objectives stated in §
153.03 of this chapter.
   (K)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including the justification for their issuance, and a copy of any
variance issued by the Board of Trustees shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within 15 days after issuance of the
variance.
(Prior Code, § 12-215) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 153.29 VARIANCE SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally-dependent use, provided that:
      (1)   The criteria of §
153.28(E) and (I) of this chapter and divisions (B) and (C) of this section are
met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods which
minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to
public safety.
(Prior Code, § 12-215) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
STANDARDS
§ 153.40 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA STANDARDS GENERALLY.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed or
modified and adequately anchored so as to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices which minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities which are designed or located so as to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed so as
to minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed so as to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharge from the system into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located so as to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 12-216) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.41 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   New construction and substantial improvements of any residential structure
shall have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated at a minimum of
one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer,
architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain
Administrator that the standard of this section is satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 12-217) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.42 NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial
or other nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor, including the
basement, elevated at a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this section
is satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 12-217) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.43 ENCLOSURE STANDARDS.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements with fully-enclosed
areas below the lowest floor which are usable solely for parking vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are
subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (B)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be not higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
(Prior Code, § 12-217) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.44 MANUFACTURED HOME STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is required that all manufactured homes to be placed anywhere
within the town within Zones A and AE on the town’s FIRM shall be installed
using methods and practices which minimize flood damage and shall have the
bottom of the I-beam elevated at or above the BFE. For the purpose of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (B)   The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to state
law, and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
(Prior Code, § 12-217) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.45 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STANDARDS.
   It is required that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A and
AE on the county’s FIRM either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements of §
153.26 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
“manufactured homes” in §
153.44 of this chapter. A recreational vehicle is READY FOR HIGHWAY USE if it
is on its wheels or a jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect- type utilities and security devices and has no permanently-attached
additions.
(Prior Code, § 12-217) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.46 ACCESSORY STRUCTURE STANDARDS.
   Accessory structures to be placed on sites within Zones A and AE on the
county’s FIRM shall comply with the following.
   (A)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior.
   (B)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage.
   (C)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking or restroom use.
   (D)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE.
   (E)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site so
as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   (F)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential and
constructed with flood-resistant materials.
   (G)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
and lateral movement.
   (H)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure.
   (I)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE.
   (J)   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to adjacent
and nearby structures.
(Prior Code, § 12-217) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.47 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
Zones A or AE which is 51 or more lots or greater than five acres shall
generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
   (B)   All subdivisions, including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided so as to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   (C)   All subdivisions, including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-218) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.48 FLOODWAY PROVISIONS.
   The following provisions shall apply to floodways.
   (A)   Encroachments, including, but not limited to, fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development, are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachments would not result in any increase in flood
levels within the town during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, then all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.48 of this chapter.
   (C)   The town may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway which
would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Prior Code, § 12-219) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development
without the elevation certificate or other certifications required in this
chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided. Violation of the provisions of this chapter by the failure to comply
with any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with conditions, shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500
for each violation or incarcerated for more than one year, and in addition,
shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Board of Trustees of the town or its Town Attorney from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Prior Code, § 12-222) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 1-11-2011)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Streets and Roads
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Regulations generally
   
154.05   Street specifications
   
154.06   Construction standards
   
154.07   Concrete surface requirements
   
154.08   Permit required for culverts, driveways, signs and certain fences
   
154.09   Appeals to Board of Trustees
STREETS AND ROADS
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Town of Calera Construction
of Streets or Roads within Housing Subdivisions Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 12-101) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to control and regulate the type of
earthwork, paving, materials and methods used for the construction of streets
or roads within housing subdivisions within the town and to provide rules and
guidelines to facilitate the enforcement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-102) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   HOUSING SUBDIVISION. A tract of land which has been divided into smaller
pieces, usually for the purpose of constructing residences which will be sold
individually.
   STREET or ROAD. A public road, way or thoroughfare, typically with houses or
buildings on one or both sides.
(Prior Code, § 12-103) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.04 REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The subdivider of any subdivision designed to be used for residential,
commercial, industrial or other purposes shall lay out, grade and otherwise
improve all streets or roads which are designated on the approved plat or which
directly serve the subdivision in accordance with the street construction
specifications of the town and in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   The design of an improvement of an intersection of any new street with
an existing state or federal highway shall be in accordance with the
specifications of the State Highway Department, but in no case shall the
standard be less than the applicable specifications of the town.
   (B)   Whenever a subdivision contains a major street which requires a street
facility that is more costly than is required to serve the future occupants of
the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay only the portion of
the cost of the major street which would equal the cost of an improvement
required to serve only the subdivision, as determined by the town.
   (C)   All driveways which connect with public streets shall be constructed
in accordance with “Standard Design of Driveway Entrances for Oklahoma
Highways,” revised, September 1960, and subsequent amendments thereto, as
prepared by the State Department of Transportation.
   (D)   These regulations shall apply jointly with the adopted standard
construction details of streets of arterial, collector and local types. These
regulations provide for both portland cement concrete construction and
asphaltic concrete as alternates.
(Prior Code, § 12-104) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.05 STREET SPECIFICATIONS.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets
shall conform to all of the elements of the General Plan and shall be designed
in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Major streets shall be planned to conform with the major streets shown
in the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed major
street, the Planning Commission may require service streets, reverse frontage
with screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear
property line, deep lots or such other treatment as may be necessary for the
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation from
traffic.
   (C)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way or
a limited access highway right-of-way, the Planning Commission may require a
street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land.
   (D)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited
except for where their control is placed in the town under conditions approved
by the Planning Commission and acceptable to the subdivider.
   (E)   Where the plat to be submitted includes the only part of the tract
owned or intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a
proposed future street system for the unsubdivided portion may be required by
the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Where a tract is subdivided into larger-than-normal building lots or
parcels, such lots or parcels shall be arranged to permit the logical location
and opening of future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with provisions
for adequate utility easements.
   (G)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (H)   Street right-of-way widths shall be in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and, where not designated therein, shall be not less than
the following.
 
Street Type             ROW Width
Arterial streets        85 feet
Collector streets       60 feet
Commercial streets      80 feet
Residential streets     60 feet
Secondary thoroughfares 80 feet
 
   (I)   (1)   The paved width of all streets shall be adequate to serve the
existing and future estimated traffic load for the facility. The lane width for
all streets shall be as follows.
         (a)   Major streets. All major streets shall have lanes for traffic
movement of not less than 11 feet nor more than 12 feet in width and lanes for
parallel parking or emergency stopping of not less than ten feet in width; and
         (b)   Minor streets. All minor streets shall have lanes for traffic
movement of not less than nine feet nor more than 12 feet in width and lanes
for parallel parking of not less than eight feet in width.
      (2)   Streets should be developed in accordance with the general
standards given in the code of the town.
   (J)   (1)   A cul-de-sac should not exceed 500 feet in length, measured from
the entrance to the center of the turnaround, unless a dedicated secondary
emergency, all-weather-accessible ingress and egress is provided to the primary
roadway to a point within 500 feet of the center of the turnaround radius. The
ingress and egress shall be, at minimum, in the form of a 20-foot wide,
dedicated public easement which is graded, compacted and graveled and otherwise
constructed to the town’s specifications.
      (2)   If the cul-de-sac is longer than 150 feet, then a turnaround radius
of not less than 65 feet at the property line and 50 feet at the curb line
shall be provided. If there is provided in the center of the turnaround an
unpaved island, then it shall be improved with landscaping which will not
interfere with sight distance. The unpaved island shall have a radius of not
less than six feet and the radius from the curb line of the island to the
turnaround outside curb shall be 30 feet, with the easement extending an
additional 15 feet beyond the outer curb line.
   (K)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, provided that the Planning Commission finds
that it will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the
street easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half
street is adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be platted within the tract being subdivided.
   (L)   The arrangement of streets shall be such so as to cause no hardship in
the subdividing of adjacent properties. The Planning Commission may require the
dedication of street rights-of-way to facilitate the development of adjoining
properties.
   (M)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the approval of
the Planning Commission.
   (N)   Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by arterial traffic
will be discouraged.
   (O)   Streets shall intersect at approximately right angles.
   (P)   Street grades shall be as follows.
      (1)   The minimum grade of all streets shall be 0.4%.
      (2)   Except where unusual topographic conditions justify it, the maximum
grade of all streets shall not be greater than the following.
 
Street Type Grade
Collector   7%
Major       5%
Residential 10%
 
   (Q)   Street corners shall be as follows.
      (1)   Street corners on local residential streets shall have a minimum
radius of 20 feet at the curb line or its equivalent.
      (2)   Street corners on collector streets shall have a minimum radius of
25 feet at the curb line or its equivalent.
      (3)   Street intersections involving major thoroughfares shall have a
minimum street corner radius of 30 feet at the curb line or its equivalent.
      (4)   In order to provide for traffic safety, there shall be platted on
each corner of each intersection of two streets a SIGHT TRIANGLE, which shall
be described as a triangle having 25-foot sides on each of the street rights-
of-way or a radius of 25 feet. The plat or the covenants of the addition shall
clearly prohibit any construction or planting of landscaping materials which
reach greater than two feet in height in this right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 12-105-3) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.06 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All earthwork, paving, materials and methods used for the construction of
streets shall conform to the State Department of Transportation’s standard
specifications for highway construction, with the following minimum
requirements:
   (A)   Remove any stumps or roots larger than two inches in diameter, rocks
larger than three inches and any matted roots to a depth of 18 inches below the
original ground surface;
   (B)   Following initial site preparation, the exposed soils should be
scarified to a depth of at least eight inches, moisture conditioned to within -
2% to +2% of the material’s optimum moisture and recompacted to at least 95% of
the material’s standard proctor maximum dry density. Moisture shall be
maintained until the placement of paving. All areas which will receive pavement
should be carefully proof- rolled with a loaded tandem axle dump truck prior to
fill placement or construction. The owner’s representative shall determine
subgrade suitability;
   (C)   Fill shall be placed in lifts not exceeding eight inches loose
thickness and compacted to a least 95% of its maximum dry density;
   (D)   Earthworks shall be performed in such a manner so as to minimize
ponding water on the subgrade. The site shall be maintained near optimum during
construction;
   (E)   All construction signing will be done in accordance with the standards
set forth in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, 2003 edition, Rev.
I, and as shown on the drawings;
   (F)   All street construction materials and methods shall be in accordance
with the State Department of Transportation’s standard specifications;
   (G)   The development or owner shall employ the services of a competent
geotechnical investigation firm to sample and test the in-site materials and to
provide recommendations for paving sections and site work, if applicable.
Actual paving sections shall be recommended by a geotechnical engineer licensed
to practice in the state. Paving sections shall not be less than the minimums
shown unless approved by the town. A copy of the geotechnical engineer’s
recommendations and reports shall be provided to the town;
   (H)   The contractor shall not vary from the approved plans without the
approval of the design engineer and the town;
   (I)   The developer, owner or contractor shall employ the services of a
competent construction materials testing firm to provide quality assurance and
quality control testing on all street construction activities. A copy of all
test reports shall be provided to the town. The town shall have the right to
request additional testing at no cost to the town if there are compelling
issues or questions regarding the materials placed;
   (J) The minimum testing frequency shall be as follows:
Asphalt finished     In-place density       1 per 5,000 square feet
Asphalt haul truck   Percent asphalt in mix 1 per 500 tons
                     Sieve analysis         1 per 500 tons
Base/subbase         Moisture and density   1 per 2,500 square feet, minimum 3
                                            tests per lift
                     Slump, air, temp       1 per 50 cubic yards placed or per
Concrete                                    day
                     Cylinders              1 set (4 cylinders) per 50 cubic
                                            yards or per day
                     Gradation              1 per source
Embankment/base      Atterberg limits       1 per source
                     Proctor                1 per material
Embankment/subgra de Moisture and density   1 per 2,500 square feet, minimum 3
                                            tests per lift
 
   (K) The aggregate base shall be ODOT Type “A;” and
   (L)   Concrete for paving.
      (1)   Concrete shall have a 3,500 psi, 28-day compressive strength as a
minimum unless noted otherwise.
Cement      ASTM C150, Type I or III, unless otherwise noted
Course      Crushed rock, washed gravel or other inert materials conforming to ASTM C33
aggregate
            No wood rot or deteriorated wood shall be accepted
            Plywood: waterproof, resin-bonded, exterior type, face to concrete Grade B or
            better
            Lumber: straight, uniform width and thickness and free from knots, offsets,
            holes, dents and other surface defects
Forms       Strips: three-fourths-inch clear white pine, surface against concrete planed
            Form coating: industrial lubricants “non-crete” form coating, protex “pro-
            cote” or equal
            Expansion joints: preformed, bituminous type STM D994, unless otherwise noted
            Air-entraining admixture: ASTM C60
            Water-reducing admixture: ASTM C494 Type A, fly ash; not allowed
Moisture-   Polyethylene film, or polyethylene-coated burlap meeting ASTM C171
retaining   Liquid-membrane curing compound: meeting AASHTO M148/ASTM C309 Type 2 or Type
cover       1-D; white pigment or red dye
Reinforcing ASTM A615, Grade 60, unless otherwise noted
steel       Welded wire fabric: ASTM A185
Water       Potable, clean and free from deleterious substances
 
      (2)   Finish surfaces to the proper line and grade as shown on the plans
or as directed by the town.
      (3)   Paving surfaces shall receive a “burlap drag” texture and be
grooved or tined to produce a skid-resistant surface.
      (4)   After surface finishing and as soon as practical, cover and cure
the entire surface with cotton or burlap mats, impervious membrane spray or
polyethylene sheeting.
      (5)   The contractor shall submit a placement and jointing layout plan
for approval. Joint panels shall be situated so as to avoid joints within a
flow line for swale.
      (6)   Construction joints may be approved only at locations approved by
the town.
      (7)   Contraction joints are to be placed at a maximum of 15 feet each
way as noted on the plans or as directed by the town. Contraction joints may be
saw-cut or formed.
      (8)   Expansion joints shall be placed so as to isolate the pavement from
structures or fixed objects, such as light foundations, drainage inlets and
buildings.
      (9)   Surface tolerance shall be tested with a ten-foot straight edge
between any two contact points and shall not exceed one-eighth inch. The
contractor shall correct surface irregularities exceeding the aforementioned
tolerance in an acceptable manner.
      (10)   Exclude traffic from the surface for a period of at least 14 days
after the concrete is placed. The paving shall be protected from damage,
staining, marring and the like.
      (11)   Pavement may be rejected because of unsound concrete, uncontrolled
cracking, malfunctioning of the sawed joints, spalling, honeycombing, surface
irregularities or insufficient thickness.
      (12)   Grade changes within the pavement such as crowns or valleys shall
be rounded within five feet on each side of the crown or valley to provide a
smooth surface.
      (13)   Hot and cold weather methods shall be employed as required and
shall be in accordance with ACI 306.
(Prior Code, § 12-105-1) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.07 CONCRETE SURFACE REQUIREMENTS.
   The concrete street surface shall comply with the following minimum
requirements.
   (A)   (1)   The subgrade shall be cut not less than four inches below the
finished grade and brought to a uniform grade the same as if the pavement were
to be placed on this grade. This grade shall be compacted to a 95% density or
by any method suitable to the Town Inspector.
      (2)   Then, four inches of blow sand or an approved material shall be
placed on the grade and spread to a true grade as shown on the plans. A final
dressing of sand shall be made between the forms set for concrete pavement, and
the subgrade shall be checked with an approved template.
      (3)   The sand shall be thoroughly wetted immediately before any concrete
is placed on the subgrade. Any irregularity or misplacement caused by the
tracks of mud buggies or trucks shall be kept smooth by floats or other
approved methods before the concrete is poured. The subgrade shall be kept
moistened immediately before the concrete is placed.
   (B)   All concrete slabs shall have the reinforcement of not less than No. 6
wire mesh.
   (C)   (1)   The concrete shall consist of a wearing course composed of
portland cement concrete constructed in one course on the prepared subgrade or
on the completed and accepted base with these specifications in conformity with
the lines, grades and thickness shown on the plan.
      (2)   The thickness of the concrete shall not be less than six inches.
Concrete shall be made of approved materials and shall be mixed by an approved
mixer not less than one and one-half minutes after all materials have reached
the mixer drum.
      (3)   Sufficient water shall be used to make a workable mix. Under no
condition shall the mixer water exceed six and one-half gallons per bag of
cement, including moisture contained in the material. The course aggregated
shall be kept wet in hot weather.
      (4)   The concrete shall have a content weight of 3,500 pounds per cubic
yard, but shall not have a strength of less than 3,000 pounds in 28 days.
   (D)   Curing concrete shall be obtained by burlap or cotton mats or with a
white or red pigment membrane-curing compound.
   (E)   Joints will be sawed one inch in depth and will be filled with joint
filler. The joint filler shall be of such character and type that it will not
be deformed by ordinary handling during the hot summer months or become hard
and brittle in cold weather. Expansion joints shall be placed every 300 feet.
(Prior Code, § 12-105-2) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.08 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CULVERTS, DRIVEWAYS, SIGNS AND CERTAIN FENCES.
   (A)   No culvert, driveway, stock pass fence or sign shall be constructed or
maintained on the right-of-way of any designated state or federal highway,
street, avenue, lane or alley within the town without first securing a permit
from the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the fee for which shall be a sum as set by the
Town Board by motion or resolution.
   (B)   Before granting a permit, the applicant shall give, in writing,
reasonable information about the proposed work to be done, including, but not
limited to, the size and location of the proposed work to be done. The Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall duly inform the Superintendent of Streets of the town and
such other town officers who may be officially concerned for the proposed work
for which an application for a permit has been made. On approval of such
application by the Superintendent of Streets and such other town officers who
may be officially concerned, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue such permit.
   (C)   The permit shall have the effect of permitting the proposed work to be
done in accordance with the approved application and in accordance with all
laws, ordinances and other regulations in effect in the town, and not
otherwise. The town may remove without notice any such culvert, driveway, fence
to stock pass or sign constructed or maintained without first obtaining such
permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-106) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 154.09 APPEALS TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Appeals to the Board of the town may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer, department, board or bureau of the town affected by any decision
of the Superintendent of Streets or other such town officer who may be
officially concerned with the proposed work for which an application for a
permit has been made.
(Prior Code, § 12-107) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-8-2016)
CHAPTER 155: TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
Section
Wireless or Cellular Telecommunications Towers and Antennas
   
155.01   Intent
   
155.02   Purpose
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Interpretation and applicability
   
155.05   Permit required; fees and requirements
   
155.06   Insurance and hold-harmless provisions
   
155.07   Bond requirements
   
155.08   Location restrictions
   
155.09   Setback and height requirements
   
155.10   Lighting, advertising and sign requirements
   
155.11   Fencing and sign requirements
   
155.12   Tower access requirements
   
155.13   Electrical power line, fiber optics and utility installation
requirements
   
155.14   Testing; notice to town required
   
155.15   Inspections
   
155.16   Removing abandoned towers, requirements
   
155.17   Preexisting towers or antennas
   
155.18   Non-interference and compliance
 
   
155.99   Penalty
WIRELESS OR CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
§ 155.01 INTENT.
   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas may be installed, erected,
modified and maintained pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter. All new
towers or antennas in the town will allow police, fire and EMS space on the
tower for the use of radio communications, either UHF, VHF or 800MHZ, and
wireless internet, but not limited to these, for the purpose of public safety
communications in emergency and nonemergency situations.
(Prior Code, § 14-301) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To ensure the provision of personal wireless service within the
corporate boundaries of, and for the benefit of the residents of, the town;
   (B)   To protect the health, safety and general welfare of the community,
public environment property and community aesthetics;
   (C)   To minimize the visual impact of towers, antennas and associated
buildings through design and sighting standards;
   (D)   To maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings to
accommodate multiple antennas in order to reduce the number of towers needed to
serve the community; and
   (E)   To avoid danger or damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements or from failure through
neglect.
(Prior Code, § 14-302) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE. A building or cabinet-like structure located
adjacent to or in the immediate vicinity of a wireless telecommunications tower
or antenna to house equipment customarily incidental to the receiving or
transmitting of wireless broadcasts, cellular telephone calls and voice
messaging and paging services.
   ANTENNA. Equipment used for transmitting or receiving radio frequency
signals which is attached to a tower, building or other structure, usually
consisting of a series of directional panels, microwave or satellite dishes or
omnidirectional “quip” antennas.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building, pole, telescoping mass, tower,
tripod or other structure which supports an antenna.
   BASE RECEIVER STATION. Equipment which provides the link between wireless
telecommunications and land-based public telephone switching networks,
including radio frequency receivers, backup power amplifiers and signal-
processing hardware typically contained in a small building or cabinet.
   COLOCATION. The location of wireless telecommunications equipment for more
than one provider on a common tower, building or structure.
   COMMERCIAL RECEIVING AND/OR TRANSMITTING ANTENNA. Any antenna erected to
transfer information for commercial use.
   GUYED TOWER. A tower which requires the use of flexible guying cables or
wires as the principal means of resisting the designed tower loads.
   LATTICE TOWER. A self-supporting three- or four-sided, open steel frame
structure used to support telecommunications equipment.
   MAST. The portion of the outside antenna system to which the antenna is
attached and the support or extension required to elevate the antenna to a
height deemed necessary for adequate operation.
   MONOPOLE TOWER. A communications tower consisting of a single pole, tapering
from base to top and with no guy wire support or exposed anchors, of more than
35 feet in height and designed to support communications equipment.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE. Licensed commercial wireless communications
services including cellular, personal communications services (PCS), enhanced
specialized mobilized radio (EMR), paging and similar services.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Land, roads, buildings or other structures owned or
operated by the town.
   TOWER. Any pole, spire, structure or combination thereof to which an antenna
could be attached or which is designed for an antenna to be attached, and all
supporting lines, cables, wires and braces, if permitted.
   UNIFORM BUILDING CODE or UBC. Published by the International Conference of
Building Officials and referenced by the state to provide jurisdictions with
building-related standards and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14-303) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 155.04 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be interpreted consistent with the provisions of
the federal Telecommunications Act of 1934, amended by the Telecommunications
Act of 1996, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq., and with any amendments hereafter
occurring.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, partnerships, limited
liability companies, limited liability partnerships, corporations and other
entities seeking to locate, sight, place, modify or construct wireless
telecommunications facilities within the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (C)   This subchapter reserves to the town all authority contained in state
and existing municipal ordinances regulating land use which has been preempted
by the federal government pursuant to the Telecommunications Act as to the
placement, construction and modification of personal wireless service
facilities.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to the use or location of private
residential, citizen-band radio towers, amateur radio towers, television
antennas or public safety communication facilities owned or operated by the
town or other public municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 14-305) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 155.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Special permit required.
      (1)   No service provider, person, corporation or firm shall construct,
modify, upgrade, enhance or add to any communications tower or antenna facility
within the town unless they have received a revocable permit from the town.
They shall make application for such permit on a provided form.
      (2)   The revocable permit shall be issued by the town for the purpose of
granting the permittee authority for the placement or erection of the
telecommunications tower antennas subject to the special permit regulations and
standards listed in this division (A).
      (3)   The revocable permit agreement may not be transferred, signed or
disposed of by sale, lease, merger, consolidation or other act of the grantee,
by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior consent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-308)
   (B)   Fees and requirements.
      (1)   The owners of all towers will be required to obtain a three-year
special permit from the town to operate a tower within the town limits at a
cost of $500 for the first three-year period. A separate permit will be
required for each tower regardless of owner or location.
      (2)   This permit must be renewed every three years thereafter at a cost
of $500 so long as the tower is operational. The permit must be renewed at
least three months prior to the expiration of the previous permit. Failure to
keep the permit current will constitute grounds for the removal of the tower at
the owner’s expense. A 30-day notice shall be given to the permit holder prior
to an order for removal.
      (3)   The tower owner must also provide continued proof of liability
insurance every three years in connection with the permit renewal process.
(Prior Code, § 14-311)
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 INSURANCE AND HOLD-HARMLESS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A permit will not be issued until the applicant files satisfactory
evidence with the town showing a minimum liability coverage of 300,000/500,000/
300,000 limits which protects the town in the event that an action is brought
claiming liability as a result of the construction, operation or maintenance of
the cellular tower.
   (B)   The property owner must hold harmless the town from any action,
including attorney fees, that may arise from the installation or operation of a
cell tower.
(Prior Code, § 14-314) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 155.07 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When an application is filed to construct a cell tower, the applicant
must obtain an estimate to remove the tower from a company acceptable to the
town and experienced in contracting for the removal of towers and must provide
that estimate to the town along with the application for approval of a special
permit to install said tower. Upon receiving approval by the Planning
Commission and the Town Board of Trustees, the cell tower owner will be
notified that a permit to construct the tower will be issued when the applicant
has met all of the requirements of this code and has secured and filed with the
town a bond for a length of not less than three years in an amount equal to or
exceeding the estimate of the cost of removal and all associated structures,
fencing, power supplies and other appurtenances connected with the tower.
   (B)   The bond must be provided within 30 days of the date of the approval
but prior to the construction beginning. Replacement bonds must be provided 90
days prior to the expiration of any previous bond. At any time, if the town has
good cause to question the sufficiency of the bond at the end of any three-year
period, then the permit holder must provide an updated estimate and bond in the
appropriate amount. Failure to keep the bonds in effect is cause for the
removal of the tower at the owner’s expense. A separate bond will be required
for each cell tower regardless of the number of owners or the location.
(Prior Code, § 14-309) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   To be eligible for a special permit for the construction of a
communications tower, the site must be location-approved by the Town Planning
and Zoning Commission and can be placed on a lot size as determined by the
tower height and setback requirements. Towers are also prohibited in all
residential areas, regardless of zoning classification and platted or not,
which are currently subdivided by ownership into lots of two or more of various
sizes and used primarily for residential purposes. Towers are prohibited in all
general floodplain districts.
   (B)   No cellular telephone antenna, support structure, amplifier,
transmitter or any other wireless telecommunication equipment can be installed
or placed on a commercial, private or public building, water tower or any other
structure, other than an actual cell tower, unless approved by the Town
Planning and Zoning Committee and the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 14-307) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.09 SETBACK AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Setback requirements. The setback requirements for cell towers will be
based on the height of the tower in order to reduce conflicts with abutting
property uses, limit the adverse visual effects on the community and the
environment, address the public concern for safety and minimize the potential
damage to abutting property owners. In no event shall any tower exceed 180
feet, including the antenna located on a tower. Towers must be able to
accommodate at least three antennas, and colocation of antennas must be
permitted.
   (B)   Tower height of 80 feet or less. For cell towers having a height of 80
feet or less, including antennas, the cell tower buildings and power equipment,
including the perimeter fence, must be located a distance of 100 feet minimum
from any abutting property line and not closer than 100 feet to a residence or
structure.
   (C)   Tower height of 81 feet to 130 feet. For cell towers ranging in height
from 81 feet up to 130 feet, including antennas, the cell tower, buildings and
power equipment, including the perimeter fence, must be located a distance of
150 feet minimum from any abutting property line and not closer than 150 feet
to a residence or structure.
   (D)   Tower height of 131 feet to 180 feet. For cell towers ranging in
height from 131 feet up to 180 feet, including antennas, the cell tower,
buildings and power equipment, including the perimeter fence, must be located a
distance of 200 feet minimum from any abutting property line and not closer
than 200 feet to a residence or structure.
(Prior Code, § 14-306) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.10 LIGHTING, ADVERTISING AND SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting restrictions. No signals or warning lights shall be permitted
on any cell tower unless required by a municipal, state or federal agency.
   (B)   Advertising and sign restrictions. No commercial advertising or
signage shall be allowed on any cell tower.
(Prior Code, § 14-306) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.11 FENCING AND SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fencing. The tower owner shall be responsible for all costs,
equipment, labor and materials associated with installing and maintaining all
privacy fencing around the cell tower. The fencing shall consist of a chain-
link fence in type and be a minimum height of seven feet. The fence must be
installed around the tower site with a locking gate. The fence must have a
minimum of three strands of barbed wire located along the top edge of the fence
and gate to prevent or discourage entry by intruders. The tower owner shall be
responsible for maintaining the fence in good condition.
   (B)   Signage. A sign must also be posted containing the tower owner’s name
and 24-hour contact information.
(Prior Code, § 14-310) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.12 TOWER ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All cell tower sites will be required to have an access road to the
tower site based on the town’s current road standards. A temporary approach for
the tower construction site is required to have a 20-foot gravel entrance off
of the roadway.
   (B)   Deposits of dirt, gravel or other similar materials on the public
streets must be properly removed at the cell tower owner’s expense. If not
removed and cleaned in a timely manner, a fine will be assessed against the
cell tower owner or abatement will occur in accordance with the general
ordinances dealing with nuisance abatements.
   (C)   All cell towers approved for construction must obtain a permit from
the appropriate governmental agency having jurisdiction over the town street,
county road or state highway used to access the tower.
(Prior Code, § 14-310) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.13 ELECTRICAL POWER LINE, FIBER OPTICS AND UTILITY INSTALLATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of the cell tower approved for construction in the town limits
must obtain the proper permits from the appropriate governmental agencies which
have jurisdiction over the placement of all lines, whether underground or
overhead, within the public right-of-way of all streets, county roads or state
highways.
(Prior Code, § 14-310) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.14 TESTING; NOTICE TO TOWN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Testing.
      (1)   When construction of a tower is first completed and all initial
power antennas are installed on the tower, the tower owner shall be required,
at his or her expense, to measure the non-ionizing radiation levels within 30
days to determine if the emissions are within the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) guidelines for safety regarding uncontrolled exposure to the
general public.
      (2)   In order to effectively measure the radiation levels of both
directional and omnidirectional antennas at cell tower locations, the following
measurements are required.
         (a)   For cell towers with only omnidirectional antennas, owners are
required to take a minimum of three measurements. The measurements must be
taken in a circular pattern at the base of the tower, spaced at approximately
120-degree increments.
         (b)   For cell tower locations having directional antennas or a
combination of omnidirectional and directional antennas, a minimum of six
measurements must be taken in a circular pattern at the base of the tower,
spaced at approximately 60-degree increments, with the first measurement taken
directly below one of the directional antennas.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   The town must be notified when the non-ionizing radiation levels
are being measured so that an official of the town can be present. Upon
completion of the measurements, the tower owner shall provide the town with a
certified report indicating the actual measurements taken and prove that they
comply with the Federal Communications Commission guidelines. The tower owner
shall also be required to provide proof that the meter used to measure
radiation levels has been calibrated at the normal intervals required by the
manufacturer to maintain the accuracy of the test equipment.
      (2)   Testing non-ionizing radiation levels will also be required again
at any time that additional antennas are installed, the number of channels
(transmitters) is increased or any other changes are made to the tower which
would increase the power output at the specific location. It is required that
the town be notified when these additional tests are made so that a town
official can be present and a certified report again be provided as indicated
above.
(Prior Code, § 14-312) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.15 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Tower owners must inspect their tower every three years for structural
integrity and file with the town by June 30 a certified report from a qualified
structural engineer who is licensed to practice in the state. The town may at
any time request a tower owner to perform additional inspections if damaging
winds, earthquakes, other natural phenomenon or unexpected damages occur which
may cause a structural failure of the cell tower or facilities.
   (B)   (1)   If, upon inspection, the tower owner determines that the
facility fails to comply with such applicable codes and that such failure
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then the owner of the facility
must immediately notify the town. The owner shall have 30 days to bring the
facility into compliance with the applicable codes and standards.
      (2)   Failure to bring the facility into compliance within said 30 days
shall constitute cause for the removal of the facility at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 14-312) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.16 REMOVING ABANDONED TOWERS, REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any tower that is not operated or used for a continuous period of 12
consecutive months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such tower
shall be required, at the owner’s expense, to remove the tower and all
associated buildings, power supplies, fencing and other items associated with,
and permitted with, the tower. If the tower is not removed within 90 days, then
the bond secured by the tower owner shall be used to remove the tower and any
accessory equipment and structures.
   (B)   (1)   If the tower has a preexisting tower approval from before the
implementation of this subchapter and the tower owner has not yet obtained a
bond to remove the tower, then the tower owner shall be required to remove the
tower at his or her expense.
      (2)   If the tower is not removed within 90 days, then the tower owner
shall be subject to a fine for each month that the tower remains in place and
to a mandatory injunction for the removal, and the owner shall be responsible
for all costs, including attorney fees, for securing the removal.
(Prior Code, § 14-309) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.17 PREEXISTING TOWERS OR ANTENNAS.
   (A)   (1)   Existing towers at the time of the adoption of this subchapter
will be allowed to continue their usage as they presently exist. However, the
towers must be registered with the town and a sign must be posted at the tower
locations indicating a contact person and a telephone number where he or she
can be reached.
      (2)   If there is ever another antenna or transmitter installed, or if
the cell tower facilities are upgraded from the original application and
approved by the Town Planning Commission or Town Board of Trustees, then the
cell tower must then meet all of the specifications of this subchapter,
including permits, bonds, inspections, testing, landscaping, screening, fencing
and driveway access requirements.
   (B)   All existing towers or antennas can enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the tower owner and the town to allow police, fire and EMS
space on the towers for the use of radio communications, either UHF, VHF or
800MHZ, and wireless internet, but not limited to these, for the purpose of
public safety communications in emergency and nonemergency situations.
(Prior Code, § 14-304) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.18 NON-INTERFERENCE AND COMPLIANCE.
   All new or existing telecommunications services shall comply with all
relevant Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) standards and shall not interfere with public safety and
other town or private communication operations.
(Prior Code, § 14-313) (Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of the cellular tower provisions of §§
155.01 through
155.18 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as provided in a schedule
of fines to be maintained by the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-315)
      (2)   In addition, fines may be enforced by injunctive relief sought in
the County District Court.
(Prior Code, § 14-316)
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020)
CHAPTER 156: SIGNS
Section
   
156.01   Purpose and application
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Contractor license and bond
   
156.04   Permit, license and review fees
   
156.05   Size requirements
   
156.06   Height requirements
   
156.07   Location requirements
   
156.08   Spacing requirements
   
156.09   Owner and sign contractor responsibilities
   
156.10   Prohibitions generally
   
156.11   Removing signs due to nonconformance or lack of permit; exception
   
156.12   Removing signs by impoundment; disposal
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. Standards are herein provided for the purpose of extending
regulations of the use of land for the erection, construction, placement,
replacement, operation, display, location and maintenance of signs and outdoor
advertising media; for the purpose of protecting places and areas of historical
and cultural importance; for the purpose of increasing safety and lessening
congestion in the streets; for the purpose of conserving the value of
buildings; for the purpose of preserving residential values; for the purpose of
providing improved community appearance and for the purpose of encouraging the
most appropriate use of land.
   (B)   Application. This chapter shall apply prospectively to future permit
applications for sign construction and to existing sign structures encroaching
on the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. A nonaccessory sign or sign structure upon which advertising may
be posted, painted or affixed and which is primarily designed for rental or
lease of the sign space for advertising not related to the use of the property
upon which the sign is located.
   DISPLAY SURFACE. The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message is displayed or illustrated.
   DISPLAY SURFACE AREA.
      (1)   The net geometrical area enclosed by the display surface of the
sign, including the outer extremities of all letters, figures, characters and
delineations, provided, however, that the DISPLAY SURFACE AREA shall not
include the structural supports for freestanding signs if the structural
supports are arranged so as not to become a part of the attention-attracting
aspect of the sign.
      (2)   Unless specifically provided in this chapter, the DISPLAY SURFACE
AREA to be computed shall be based on the following standards.
         (a)   For signs of irregular design, the DISPLAY SURFACE AREA shall be
determined by computing the area formed by an envelope of rectangles and
triangles which shall be formed by drawing straight lines which connect the
adjacent extreme points of the display surface of adjacent panels, figures,
characters or delineations.
         (b)   Where a sign has two faces which are joined in a “V” shape
forming an angle of more than 30 degrees but not to exceed 60 degrees, or where
such sign contains three or more faces which are joined to form a polygon shape
when viewed from above, the total DISPLAY SURFACE AREA of the sign may be
increased by 150% of the allowable maximums as outlined in this division (2)
(b), provided that no one side of the sign exceeds 75% of the normal maximum
size as set forth herein.
         (c)   The maximum DISPLAY SURFACE AREA of a double-faced sign, as
defined herein, shall be calculated on the basis of only one sign face.
         (d)   The DISPLAY SURFACE AREA of a double-surface sign, when the two
surfaces are greater than 36 inches apart and not joined to form a “V,” as
permitted above, shall be computed by adding together the square footage of
each display surface. For signs over 25 feet in height, the distance between
the surfaces may be increased to 60 inches maximum.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. Any sign which has two display surfaces, each of which is
parallel to the other or joined in a “V” shape forming an angle of 30 degrees
or less.
   ERECT. To build, construct, place, locate or structurally alter any sign,
cause any sign to be built, constructed, placed, located, relocated or
structurally altered or benefit directly or indirectly from the building,
construction, placement, location, relocation or structural alteration of any
sign or other advertising device upon the site where it is to be utilized,
whether permanently or temporarily.
   NONACCESSORY SIGN. A sign or advertising device which directs attention to
an activity, service or product sold or offered elsewhere than on the premises
on which the sign is located.
   SIGN. Any structure or part thereof or any device permanently or temporarily
attached to, painted on, supported by or represented on a building, fence, post
or other structure which is used or intended to be used to attract attention.
   STRUCTURE. Anything built or constructed, whether or not permanently
attached to the ground.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 156.03 CONTRACTOR LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   Contractor’s license.
      (1)   No person except a licensed sign contractor shall engage in the
business of manufacturing, installing, erecting, repairing, painting, altering,
servicing or removing signs.
      (2)   Employees of duly-licensed sign contractors shall not be required
to obtain a license or pay a fee in order to engage in the work of
manufacturing, installing, erecting, repairing, painting, altering, servicing
or removing signs in the regular course of their employment.
      (3)   No such license shall be issued until the person applying for it
pays to the Town Clerk-Treasurer the fee established in the general schedule of
fees in §
156.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   Contractor’s bond.
      (1)   No sign contractor’s license shall be issued until the applicant
therefor shall have deposited with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a surety bond in
the sum of $5,000, to be known as the “sign contractor’s bond.” The bond shall
be executed by the sign contractor, and the surety thereon shall be a corporate
surety company authorized to do business in the state.
      (2)   The bond shall be in the favor of the town and conditioned that the
licensee shall faithfully and properly conduct his or her business in
compliance with the laws and ordinances of the town relating to signs and sign
contractors, and for the payment of all fines and penalties imposed by a
violation of such laws and for the protection and indemnification of the town
against all damages resulting directly or indirectly from any injury to persons
or property on account of the negligence or unskilled work of the licensee.
      (3)   The bond shall be renewed annually, and no person shall engage in
the business of sign contractor unless the bond as provided in this section is
on file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-404) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.04 PERMIT, LICENSE AND REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees for signs or advertising structures.
      (1)   Removal of a nonaccessory sign: $38; and
      (2)   Display, erect, structurally alter or relocate any sign or other
advertising structure device sign:
 
Display Surface                      Fee
Less than 101 square feet in area    $ 46
101 to 200 square feet in area       $58
201 to 500 square feet in area       $118
Greater than 500 square feet in area $154
 
   (B)   Electrical permit fees. The fees in division (A) above do not include
charges for electrical permits required under the provisions of the Electrical
Code. See §§
150.01 through
150.06 of this code for such fees.
   (C)   Contractor license fee. A sign or billboard contractor’s license is
$75 annually.
   (D)   Construction-related permit fees per occurrence.
Type Fee
Type                                                                      Fee
Assessor buildings                                                        $25
Commercial new construction                                               $750
Commercial remodel                                                        $500
Contractor demolition fee                                                 $100
Fencing                                                                   $25
Fire and health/safety codes compliance fee                               $25
Homeowner demolition fee                                                  $25
In-ground pool                                                            $25
Natural gas inspection/pressure test (as performed by a licensed plumber) $25
Placement and/or resurfacing a driveway (culverts not included)           $25
Placement of mobile home                                                  $100
Residential new construction                                              $500
Residential remodel                                                       $100
Return inspection per trip                                                $10
Roofing (residential and commercial)                                      $25
Storm shelter/safe room                                                   $25
 
   (E)   Engineer consultant review. The fee is separate from a consultant
invoice fee. The fee is $75.
(Prior Code, § 9-405) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018; Ord. 2019-06, passed 10-
21-2019)
§ 156.05 SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The display surface area for nonaccessory signs displayed to be read
from a divided, limited access roadway with four or more traffic lanes shall
not exceed 672 square feet per sign face, except for a 20% allowance for
extensions and cutouts.
   (B)   The display surface area of all other nonaccessory signs shall not
exceed 300 square feet per sign face.
   (C)   The maximum width of a sign shall be 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-403) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.06 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The maximum height of the highest point of the structure for
nonaccessory signs displayed to be read from a divided, limited access roadway
with four or more traffic lanes shall be 50 feet above grade, provided,
however, that where the sign is adjacent to an elevated roadway, the maximum
height shall be 30 feet above the road grade.
   (B)   The maximum height of the highest point of the structure for all other
nonaccessory signs shall be 35 feet above grade. The minimum clearance between
ground level and the lowest point of the display surface, exclusive of
supports, shall be not less than six feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-403) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.07 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The location shall comply with all established building lines and
required setbacks as outlined in this chapter and in all other ordinances of
the town.
   (B)   Where there is no building setback line established by ordinance or
subdivision plat, such signs shall be set back from the front lot line not less
than 25 feet.
   (C)   Where a railroad right-of-way crosses a public right-of-way, required
setbacks or established building lines on adjacent properties are extended
through or across the railroad right-of-way.
   (D)   No nonaccessory sign shall be constructed, erected or placed in any
way on the roof or walls of a building. A sign may be constructed over, but not
on, a roof, provided that there is a minimum distance between the roof and the
lowest point of the sign surface of ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-403) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.08 SPACING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Spacing generally.
      (1)   The measurement for the spacing requirement shall be from the
center of the sign support structure.
      (2)   Except as provided for in division (A)(3) below, no nonaccessory
sign shall be constructed, erected, placed or replaced closer than 750 feet to
another nonaccessory sign facing in the same direction and on the same side of
the street or highway from which the sign is intended to be read.
      (3)   Regardless of the applicable zoning, no sign displayed to be read
from a divided, limited access roadway with four or more traffic lanes shall be
constructed, erected, placed or replaced closer than 1,200 feet to another
nonaccessory sign facing in the same direction and on the same side of the
roadway from which the sign is intended to be read.
   (B)   Spacing from residential property.
      (1)   No nonaccessory sign shall be constructed, erected, placed or
replaced closer than 50 feet to the nearest residentially-zoned property.
      (2)   No nonaccessory sign shall be constructed, erected, placed or
replaced closer than 150 feet to the nearest detached single-family or two-
family residential building.
(Prior Code, § 9-403) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.09 OWNER AND SIGN CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Owner’s consent. Before any permit is granted for the erection of a
sign, plans and specifications shall be filed with the Town Board of Trustees
showing the dimensions, materials and required details of construction,
including the loads, stresses and anchorage. Such applications shall be
accompanied by the written consent of the owner or lessee of the premises upon
which the sign is to be erected.
   (B)   Alteration. A sign shall not be enlarged or relocated except in
conformity to the provisions of this chapter for new signs, nor until a proper
permit has been secured.
   (C)   Maintenance. The owner of any property on which a sign is located and
those responsible for the maintenance of the sign shall be equally responsible
for the conditions of the area in the vicinity of the sign and shall be
required to keep said area clean, sanitary and free from noxious or offensive
substances, rubbish and flammable waste materials.
(Prior Code, § 9-402) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.10 PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Unless specifically permitted in another section of this chapter, no
sign shall be erected on or over a street right-of-way.
   (B)   No person shall permit the manufacturing, installing, erecting or
displaying of any obscene, indecent or immoral matter.
   (C)   All portions of signs, including the display surface, shall be kept in
good repair at all times so that the entire sign is clearly legible and free of
damage, deterioration or defacement. Prior to the issuance of a citation for a
violation of this division (C), the Town Manager or his or her designee shall
first give 30 days’ written notice of the alleged violation to any person or
persons who may be cited for the violation. The written notice shall notify
such person or persons of the apparent violation of this division (C) and shall
state that a citation may be issued to such person or persons if the alleged
violation is not abated within 30 days from the date shown on the written
notice.
   (D)   All signs or portions thereof which are not maintained in good repair,
are no longer used for advertising purposes or are no longer clearly legible
shall be brought into compliance with this section or removed.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.11 REMOVING SIGNS DUE TO NONCONFORMANCE OR LACK OF PERMIT; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any sign which was fully lawful when erected but does not
conform with the current regulations set forth in this chapter may continue
unless such sign is altered in a manner which increases the degree of
nonconformity or is abandoned for a period of more than two years.
      (2)   In the event of such alteration or abandonment, the sign shall be
immediately terminated and removed unless it is brought into conformance with
the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable town regulations.
   (B)   Any sign erected without a permit shall be subject to immediate
removal.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.12 REMOVING SIGNS BY IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Impoundment without notice authorized.
      (1)   Any sign situated in the right-of-way of a public street or in a
required sight triangle, or an unanchored sign or one which has been damaged by
storm or collision in such a manner that its presence constitutes a threat to
the health, safety and welfare of the public, is hereby declared a public
nuisance endangering the public safety, and upon discovery, it may be impounded
by the Mayor or a member of the Board of Trustees, a code enforcement officer,
any police officer, such other employees of the town as may be designated by
the Town Manager or any person contracting with the town as an independent
contractor to impound such signs subject to the supervision and control of the
Town Manager or his or her designee.
      (2)   Those responsible for the placement of signs or the causing of
signs to be placed, located, built or constructed, or who benefit directly or
indirectly from the placement, location, building or construction of said
signs, in violation of this code are subject to the penalties set forth for
applicable code violations.
   (B)   Disposal. All signs which are impounded shall be disposed of by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-406) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-18-2018)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
   
157.01   Height restriction zoning ordinance adopted
§ 157.01 HEIGHT RESTRICTION ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The height restriction zoning ordinance passed and approved by the Joint
Airport Zoning Board of Eaker Field, filed and recorded in the office of the
County Clerk on September 21, 2004 in Book 1067 at pages 1,017 through 1,026 is
hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 12-301) (Ord. 2004-02, passed 11-4-2004)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ELECTRIC FRANCHISES
      
II.   NATURAL GAS FRANCHISES
      
III.   CABLE TELEVISION PERMITS
TABLE I: ELECTRIC FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Passed Date Description
                     Grants a 25-year electric franchise to Oklahoma Gas and
77-1     1-4-1977    Electric Company.
                     (Prior Code, Appendix 1)
                     Grants to the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, a state
                     corporation, and its successors and assigns the right to
                     produce, transmit and distribute electricity within the
                     town limits, and to sell electricity therein for all
                     purposes for which it may be used to the town, its
                     inhabitants and the public generally, and the right to
01-05    7-3-2001    construct, maintain and operate a system of poles, wires,
                     conduits and other facilities and equipment in, upon,
                     across, under and over the streets, alleys, public grounds
                     and other places in the town for such purposes for a
                     period of 25 years from the approval and acceptance of
                     this ordinance, and provides for compensation to the town,
                     ordering an election and declaring an emergency.
                     (Prior Code, Appendix 1)
                    
 
TABLE II: NATURAL GAS FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Passed Date Description
-        4-5-1973    Grants a gas franchise to Lone Star Gas Company.
                     (Prior Code, Appendix 2)
                    
 
TABLE III: CABLE TELEVISION PERMITS
 
Ord. No. Passed Date Description
                     Grants a cable television permit to Universal
                     Telecommunications. This permit was sold to Alpha
                     Communications and approved by the Board on March 2, 1982.
8        5-15-1979   This permit was assigned to River Communications in 1988,
                     approved by Resolution 299, February 23, 1988. The permit
                     period is 20 years and the permit fee is 2%.
                     (Prior Code, Appendix 3)
                     Renews the franchise for an additional term of 15 years
                     and increases the franchise fee from 2% to 3%. The
96-2     - -         franchisee is James Cable Partners, L.P., DBA Southwest
                     Cablevision. A copy of the franchise and amendment are
                     available in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
                     (Prior Code, Appendix 3)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cites Code Section
O.S. Cites                    Code Section
2 O.S. 7-401 et seq.          115.15
11 O.S. 2-105                 11.02
11 O.S. 8-102                 30.02
11 O.S. 8-105                 31.15
11 O.S. 8-109                 30.02
11 O.S. 12-102                30.02
11 O.S. 12-102.1              30.02
11 O.S. 12-103                30.02
11 O.S. 12-103.1              30.01
11 O.S. 12-104                30.20
11 O.S. 12-105                30.20
11 O.S. 12-107                30.03
11 O.S. 12-110                34.001
11 O.S. 12-113                31.17
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.        Ch. 10
11 O.S. 14-103 et seq.        Ch. 10
11 O.S. 14-107                151.02
11 O.S. 14-108                10.01
11 O.S. 14-109                10.01
11 O.S. 16-112                34.015
11 O.S. 16-205                30.02
11 O.S. 20-101                11.02
11 O.S. 20-102 through 20-105 11.02
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.        Ch. 10
11 O.S. 22-106                110.01;
                              Ch. 114
11 O.S. 22-107                110.01;
                              110.06
11 O.S. 22-108                132.11
11 O.S. 22-112                151.55
11 O.S. 27-101                32.01
11 O.S. 27-101 through 27-131 32.01;
                              32.03
11 O.S. 27-102                32.01
11 O.S. 27-111                32.53
11 O.S. 34-101 et seq.        33.001
11 O.S. 34-104                33.004
11 O.S. 41 through 47         153.01
11 O.S. 49-122                31.25
15 O.S. 511 et seq.           33.004
21 O.S.                       132.07
21 O.S. 1289.1 et seq.        133.03
21 O.S. 1704                  134.01
21 O.S. 1706                  134.01
                              114.05;
21 O.S. 2100                  114.99;
                              115.99
                              114.05;
21 O.S. 2100.1                114.99;
                              115.99
                              114.05;
21 O.S. 2100.2                114.99;
                              115.99
22 O.S. 1115.1 through 1115.5 32.32
22 O.S. 1261 et seq.          33.004
22 O.S. 1321 et seq.          33.004
25 O.S. 301 through 314       30.03
27A O.S. 2-7-101 et seq.      34.025
37 O.S. 1-101 et seq.         115.30
37A O.S.                      115.34;
                              115.36
37A O.S. 1-101                115.30
37A O.S. 2-101 et seq.        115.33
37A O.S. 2-139                115.35
37A O.S. 2-142                115.36
37A O.S. 3                    33.004
37A O.S. 6-114                133.09
47 O.S. Art. VI, Ch. 7        70.04
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.         70.01;
                              70.03
47 O.S. 1-104                 75.09
47 O.S. 6-101 et seq.         72.02
47 O.S. 7-204                 70.04
47 O.S. 7-503                 70.04
47 O.S. 7-606                 70.04
47 O.S. 10-101 et seq.        70.03;
                              70.19
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.        72.01
47 O.S. 11-104                70.12
47 O.S. 11-106                70.15
47 O.S. 11-201(a)             71.04
47 O.S. 11-201(b)             71.07
47 O.S. 11-204                71.12
47 O.S. 11-207                71.13
47 O.S. 11-301                72.10
47 O.S. 11-308                71.02
47 O.S. 11-309                71.01
47 O.S. 11-402                72.13
47 O.S. 11-403(b)             71.08
47 O.S. 11-403(c)             71.09
47 O.S. 11-405                70.16
47 O.S. 11-601                72.40
47 O.S. 11-604                72.42
47 O.S. 11-703(c)             71.09
47 O.S. 11-703(d)             71.08
47 O.S. 11-704                72.09
47 O.S. 11-901                72.57
47 O.S. 11-902                72.58
47 O.S. 11-1003               73.06
47 O.S. 11-1004(c)            73.03
47 O.S. 11-1105               70.09
47 O.S. 11-1108(a)            70.17
47 O.S. 11-1109               70.18
47 O.S. 11-1201               75.01
47 O.S. 11-1202               75.02
47 O.S. 11-1203               75.04
47 O.S. 12-101 et seq.        70.05
47 O.S. 14-101 et seq.        70.06
47 O.S. 15-102(a)             71.02;
                              72.41
47 O.S. 15-108                71.03
47 O.S. 15-112                73.04
47 O.S. 22-106                Ch. 114
47 O.S. 22.1                  72.05
47 O.S. 421                   Ch. 114
47 O.S. 600 et seq.           70.04
47 O.S. 751                   72.58
47 O.S. 790                   32.32
47 O.S. 954A                  74.01
47 O.S. 955                   74.01
50 O.S. 1 et seq.             94.01
50 O.S. 12                    94.07
50 O.S. 14                    94.08
50 O.S. 15                    94.08
50 O.S. 16                    94.05;
                              94.09
50 O.S. 17                    94.10
51 O.S. 121 et seq.           31.24
51 O.S. 125                   31.24
52 O.S. 420.1 et seq.         92.05
57 O.S. 581 et seq.           114.01
59 O.S. 353.1                 34.022
                              Ch. 111;
59 O.S. 1001 et seq.          111.20;
                              150.20
59 O.S. 1680 through 1696     150.01
60 O.S. 655                   33.004
61 O.S. 130                   34.159
62 O.S. 517.1 et seq.         34.002
63 O.S.                       112.01;
                              112.04
63 O.S. 2-101 et seq.         132.04
63 O.S. 1-229.1 et seq.       131.16
63 O.S. 1-1011                94.12
63 O.S. 1-1101 et seq.        115.01
63 O.S. 1-1900 et seq.        133.09
63 O.S. 2-204(f)              132.05
63 O.S. 420 through 425       112.03
63 O.S. 683.11                33.100
68 O.S. 205                   34.066
68 O.S. 217                   34.032;
                              34.063
68 O.S. 220                   34.033;
                              34.064
68 O.S. 227                   34.034;
                              34.065
                              34.015 through
                              34.018;
                              34.020;
                              34.021;
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.          34.024;
                              34.027;
                              34.031;
                              34.035;
                              34.087
68 O.S. 1352                  34.016
                              34.051 through
                              34.053;
                              34.056;
68 O.S. 1401                  34.057;
                              34.061;
                              34.062;
                              34.066;
                              34.081
68 O.S. 1408                  34.061
68 O.S. 1621 et seq.          Ch. 112;
                              133.07
68 O.S. 1622                  112.20;
                              133.07
68 O.S. 1623                  112.22
68 O.S. 1624                  Ch. 112;
                              133.07
68 O.S. 2601 through 2605     34.115
68 O.S. 2601 et seq.          34.100;
                              34.135
68 O.S. 2701                  34.084
68 O.S. 6001 through 6004     34.021
70 O.S. 3311                  33.023
72 O.S. 1                     Ch. 114
74 O.S. 324.8                 151.02
74 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.     34.153
75 O.S. 309 through 317       32.50
82 O.S. 1601 et seq.          153.28
82 O.S. 1601 through 1618     153.11
                              
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
1-101      10.01
           10.06;
1-102      10.07;
           10.15
1-103      10.05
1-104      10.19
1-105      10.08
1-106      10.19;
           10.20
1-107      10.13
1-108      10.99
1-109      10.99
1-110      10.02
1-201      11.01
1-202      11.02
2-101      30.01
2-102      30.02
2-103      30.03
2-104      30.04
2-105      30.05
2-201      30.20;
           30.21
2-301      31.01
2-303      31.02
2-304      31.03
2-305      31.04;
           31.22
2-306      31.15
2-307      31.17
2-308      31.18
2-309      31.19
2-310      31.16
2-311      31.20
2-312      31.21
2-401      31.24
2-402      31.24
2-403      31.24
2-404      31.24
2-405      31.24
2-406      31.24
2-501      31.25
2-601      31.23
2-602      31.23
2-603      31.23
2-604      31.23
3-101      115.30
3-102      115.31
3-103      115.32
3-104      115.32;
           115.33
3-105      115.99
3-106      115.99
3-107      115.36
3-108      115.37
3-109      115.39
3-110      115.42
3-112      115.34
3-113      115.35
3-114      115.40
3-115      115.45
3-116      115.38;
           115.99
3-117      115.41
3-118      115.44
3-119      115.43
3-120      115.99
4-101      95.01
4-110      95.20
4-111      95.20
4-112      95.25
4-113      95.24
4-114      95.26
4-115      95.21
4-116      95.23
4-117      95.22
4-120      95.02
4-121      95.03
4-122      95.04
4-130      95.41
4-131      95.42
4-132      95.46
4-133      95.47
4-134      95.40
4-135      95.43
4-136      95.44
4-137      95.45
4-140      95.61
4-141      95.62
4-142      95.63
4-150      95.05
4-160      95.60
4-170      95.99
5-101      151.02
5-102      151.03
5-103      151.99
5-104      151.04
5-105      151.11
5-106      151.05;
           151.99
5-107      151.01
5-108      151.07
5-109      151.08
5-110      151.06;
           151.99
5-201      150.20
5-202      150.21
5-203      111.20 through
           111.24
5-204      150.22
5-301      150.01
5-302      150.02
5-303      150.03
5-304      150.04
5-305      150.05
5-306      150.06
5-307      111.01 through
           111.05
5-401      92.05
5-501      150.35
5-601      151.55
5-602      151.56
5-603      151.57
5-701      91.01
5-702      91.03
5-703      91.04
5-704      91.02
5-705      91.02
5-706      91.05 through
           91.08
5-707      91.09
5-708      91.99
           91.99;
           92.99;
5-801      111.99;
           150.99;
           151.99
           91.99;
           92.99;
5-802      111.99;
           150.99;
           151.99
6-101      32.01;
           32.03
6-102      32.02
6-103      32.04
6-104      32.45
6-105      32.45
6-106      32.46
6-107      32.47
6-108      32.48
6-109      32.49
6-110      32.50
6-111      32.51
6-112      32.52
6-113      32.55
6-114      32.53
6-115      32.54
6-116      32.53
6-117      32.05
6-118      32.06
6-119      32.07
6-120      32.31
6-121      32.32
6-122      32.10
6-123      32.11
6-124      32.30
6-125      32.08
6-126      32.09
6-127      32.12
6-128      32.14
6-129      32.13
6-130      32.19
6-131      32.15
6-132      32.99
6-133      32.18
6-134      32.16
6-135      32.17
7-101      34.001
7-102      34.002
7-201      34.015
7-202      34.016
7-203      34.016
7-204      34.017
7-205      34.018
7-206      34.015
7-207      34.019
7-208      34.020
7-209      34.021
7-210      34.023;
           34.999
7-211      34.022;
           34.999
7-212      34.024;
           34.999
7-213      34.025
7-214      34.026
7-215      34.027
7-216      34.028
7-217      34.029
7-218      34.030;
           34.999
7-219      34.031
7-220      34.032
7-221      34.033
7-222      34.034
7-223      34.999
7-224      34.035
7-225      34.036
7-226      34.037
7-301      34.135;
           34.136
7-302      34.137
7-401      34.100
7-402      34.101
7-403      34.102
7-404      34.103
7-405      34.104
7-501      34.115
7-502      34.116
7-503      34.117
7-504      34.118
7-505      34.119
7-506      34.120
7-601      34.050
7-602      34.051
7-603      34.055
7-604      34.056
7-605      34.057
7-606      34.058
7-607      34.059
7-608      34.060
7-609      34.061
7-610      34.062
7-611      34.063
7-612      34.064
7-613      34.065
7-614      34.999
7-615      34.066
7-616      34.067
7-617      34.052
7-618      34.053
7-619      34.054
7-701      34.080
7-702      34.081
7-703      34.082
7-704      34.083
7-705      34.084
7-706      34.085
7-707      34.086
7-708      34.087
8-101      93.06
8-102      93.01
8-103      93.08
8-104      93.09;
           93.10
8-105      93.11
8-106      93.12
8-107      93.13
8-108      93.14
8-109      93.04
8-111      93.05;
           93.99
8-112      93.02
8-113      93.03
8-114      93.07
8-115      93.99
8-201      115.01;
           115.99
8-202      115.15
8-203      115.16
8-204      115.99
8-301      94.01
8-302      94.03
8-303      94.04
8-304      94.07
8-305      94.08
8-306      94.05
8-307      94.06
8-308      94.09
8-309      94.10
8-310      94.02
8-311      94.12
8-312      94.11
8-313      94.13
8-401      92.20
8-402      92.21
8-403      92.22
8-404      92.23
8-405      92.24
8-407      92.99
8-501      90.01
8-502      90.02
8-503      90.03
8-504      90.99
9-101      110.01
9-102      110.02
9-103      110.03
9-104      110.02
9-105      110.05
9-106      110.07
9-107      110.06
9-108      110.04
9-109      110.99
9-110      110.08
9-201      114.01;
           114.02
9-202      114.02
           114.04;
9-203      114.05;
           114.99
9-204      114.03
9-205      114.06
9-206      114.07;
           114.99
9-301      113.01
9-302      113.02
9-303      113.05
9-304      113.03
9-305      113.06
9-306      113.04
9-307      113.03
9-308      113.10
9-309      113.03;
           113.10
9-310      113.07
9-311      113.08
9-312      113.11
9-313      113.13
9-314      113.14
9-315      113.12
9-316      113.09
9-317      113.15
9-318      113.99
9-319      113.99
           156.01;
9-401      156.02;
           156.10 through
           156.12
9-402      156.09
9-403      156.05 through
           156.08
9-404      156.03
9-405      156.04
9-406      156.99
9-501      112.01;
           112.02
9-502      112.03
9-503      112.04;
           112.05
9-504      132.04;
           132.99
10-101     130.01
10-102     130.02
10-201     134.01;
           134.99
10-202     134.06
10-203     134.07
10-204     134.05
10-205     134.02
10-206     134.08
10-207     134.15
10-208     134.12
10-209     134.04
10-210     134.03
10-211     134.10;
           134.99
10-212     134.11
10-213     134.13
10-214     134.14
10-215     134.09
10-301     133.01
10-302     133.02
           112.20 through
           112.22;
10-303     112.99;
           133.07;
           133.99
10-304     133.08
10-305     133.03
10-306     133.04
10-307     133.05
10-308     133.06
10-309     133.09;
           133.99
10-310     131.16;
           131.99
10-311     133.10;
           133.99
10-401     132.03
10-402     132.01
10-403     132.02
10-404     132.04
10-405     132.08
10-406     132.14
10-407     132.15
10-408     132.16
10-409     132.06
10-410     132.07
10-411     132.07
10-412     132.13
10-413     131.15;
           131.99
10-414     132.09
10-415     132.10
10-416     132.11
10-417     132.12
10-418     132.17
10-419     132.19
10-420     132.18
10-421     132.05;
           132.99
10-501     131.01
10-601     135.05
10-602     135.04
10-603     135.07
10-604     135.09
10-605     135.10
10-606     135.03
10-607     135.01
10-608     135.02
10-609     135.08
10-610     135.06
10-701     130.99
11-101     96.01
11-102     96.02
11-103     96.99
12-101     154.01
12-102     154.02
12-103     154.03
12-104     154.04
12-105-1   154.06
12-105-2   154.07
12-105-3   154.05
12-106     154.08
12-107     154.09
12-201     153.01
12-202     153.02
12-203     153.03
12-204     153.07
12-205     153.06
12-206     153.04
12-207     153.10
12-208     153.25
12-209     153.08
12-210     153.09
12-211     153.05
12-212     153.12
12-213     153.11
12-214     153.26
12-215     153.28;
           153.29
12-216     153.40
12-217     153.41 through
           153.46
12-218     153.47
12-219     153.48
12-221     153.27
12-222     153.99
12-301     157.01
13-101     92.01
13-102     92.03
13-103     92.02
13-104     92.06
13-105     92.04
13-106     92.07
13-107     92.99
13-200     33.040
13-201     33.040
13-202     33.041
13-203     33.042
13-204     33.043
13-205     33.044
13-206     33.045
13-207     33.048
13-208     33.049
13-209     33.050
13-210     33.051
13-211     33.053
13-212     33.052
13-213     33.054
13-214     33.055
13-215     33.056
13-216     33.058
13-217     33.059
13-218     33.060
13-219     33.046
13-220     33.057
13-221     33.047
13-222     33.075 through
           33.087
13-301     33.001
13-302     33.002
13-303     33.003
13-310     33.020
13-311     33.020
13-312     33.023
13-313     33.023
13-314     33.022
13-315     33.025
13-316     33.027
13-317     33.028
13-318     33.021
13-319     33.024
13-320     33.029
13-321     33.999
13-322     33.026;
           33.999
13-401     33.100
13-402     33.101
13-403     33.102
13-404     33.103
13-405     33.104
13-501     33.004
13-502     33.005
13-503     33.006
13-504     33.007
13-601     151.25
13-602     151.26
13-603     151.27
13-604     151.28
13-605     151.29
13-606     151.99
14-101     152.01
14-102     152.02
14-103     152.04
14-104     152.03
14-105     152.06
14-106     152.05
14-107     152.07
14-108     152.08
14-109     152.09
14-110     152.10
14-112     152.99
14-201     152.25
14-202     152.26
14-203     152.27
14-204     152.28
14-205     152.29
14-206     152.99
14-301     155.01
14-302     155.02
14-303     155.03
14-304     155.17
14-305     155.04
14-306     155.09;
           155.10
14-307     155.08
14-308     155.05
14-309     155.07;
           155.16
14-310     155.11 through
           155.13
14-311     155.05
14-312     155.14;
           155.15
14-313     155.18
14-314     155.06
14-315     155.99
14-316     155.99
15-101     70.01
15-102     70.02
15-103     70.05
15-104     70.06
15-105     70.08
15-106     70.32
15-107     70.09
15-108     70.10
15-109     70.11
15-110     70.13
15-111     70.12
15-112     70.14
15-113     70.15
15-114     70.16
15-115     70.17
15-116     70.18
15-117     70.30
15-118     70.19;
           70.99
15-119     70.33
15-120     70.36
15-121     70.37
15-122     70.38
15-123     70.34
15-124     70.35
15-125     70.31
15-126     70.03
15-127     70.04;
           70.99
15-128     70.07
15-201     72.01
15-202     72.02
15-203     72.03
15-204     72.56
15-205     72.04
15-206     72.07
15-207     72.10
15-208     72.12
15-209     72.13
15-210     72.57
15-211     72.58
15-212     72.11
15-213     72.08
15-214     72.55
15-215     72.09
           72.05;
15-216     72.06;
           72.99
15-220     72.25
15-221     72.26
15-230     73.05
15-231     73.01
15-232     73.02
15-233     73.03
15-234     73.03
15-235     73.06
15-236     73.07
15-237     73.07
15-238     73.08
15-239     73.09
15-240     73.04;
           73.99
15-250     72.40
15-251     72.41
15-252     72.42
15-301     71.04
15-302     71.07
15-303     71.13
15-304     71.05
15-305     71.06
15-306     71.11
15-307     71.12
15-308     71.01
15-309     71.02
15-310     71.03
15-311     71.03
15-312     71.08
15-313     71.09
15-314     71.10
15-401     75.01
15-402     75.02
15-403     75.03
15-404     75.04
15-405     75.06
15-406     75.08
15-407     75.05
15-408     75.07
15-409     75.09
15-501     74.01
15-502     74.03
15-503     74.04
15-504     74.02
15-505     74.09
15-506     74.08
15-507     74.06
15-508     74.07
15-509     74.13
15-510     74.12
15-511     74.11
15-512     74.10
15-513     74.15
15-514     74.14
15-515     74.05
15-601     70.99
16-101     76.03
16-102     76.04
16-103     76.02
16-104     76.01
17-101     50.02
17-102     50.03
17-103     50.07
17-104     50.08
17-105     50.10
17-106     50.09
17-107     50.05
17-108     50.04
17-109     50.01;
           50.99
17-110     50.06
17-121     51.01
17-122     51.02
17-123     51.04
17-124     51.03
17-125     51.11
17-126     51.05
17-127     51.06
17-128     51.07
17-129     51.08
17-130     51.09
17-131     51.10
17-201     52.01
17-202     52.02
17-203     52.03
17-204     52.04
17-205     52.05
17-206     52.20
17-207     52.21
17-208     52.22
17-209     52.23
17-210     52.99
17-301     53.01
17-302     53.25 through
           53.27
17-303     53.02
17-304     53.29
17-305     53.28
17-306     53.30
17-307     53.31
17-308     53.32
17-309     53.03
17-310     53.04
17-311     53.05
17-312     53.07
17-313     53.08
17-314     53.09
17-315     53.10
17-316     53.11
17-317     53.06
17-318     53.12
17-319     53.13
17-320     53.13
17-321     53.99
17-322     53.99
17-323     53.02
17-324     53.25
17-401     54.01
17-402     54.05;
           54.99
17-403     54.06
17-404     54.07
17-405     54.08
17-406     54.10
17-407     54.11
17-408     54.09
17-409     54.04
17-410     54.03
17-411     54.02
17-412     54.99
17-501     151.40
17-502     151.41
17-503     151.42
18-101     73.20
18-102     73.21 through
           73.24
19-101     94.25
19-102     94.26
19-103     94.27
Appendix 1 TSO, Table I
Appendix 2 TSO, Table II
Appendix 3 TSO, Table III
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3-107    - -         115.36
90-1     - -         11.02
96-2     - -         TSO, Table III
-        4-5-1973    TSO, Table II
77-1     1-4-1977    TSO, Table I
8        5-15-1979   TSO, Table III
97-3     12-2-1997   34.115 through
                     34.120
01-03    2-6-2001    32.17
01-05    7-3-2001    TSO, Table I
2002-01  5-7-2002    51.04
2002-02  6-4-2002    51.03;
                     51.05
2004-01  8-3-2004    34.019
2004-02  11-4-2004   157.01
2004-03  11-4-2004   72.42
2005-01  1-6-2005    51.01;
                     51.02
2005-02  5-4-2005    132.04
2007-01  1-9-2007    31.17
                     34.050 through
2007-02  7-10-2007   34.067;
                     34.999
2009-02  9-10-2009   133.09;
                     133.99
2009-03  9-10-2009   131.99
                     112.20 through
                     112.22;
2010-02  1-12-2010   112.99;
                     133.07;
                     133.99
                     153.01 through
                     153.12;
                     153.25 through
2010-07  1-11-2011   153.29;
                     153.40 through
                     153.48;
                     153.99
                     151.25 through
2011-01  3-8-2011    151.29;
                     151.99
2012-01  4-10-2012   131.15;
                     131.99
                     92.20 through
2012-03  7-10-2012   92.24;
                     92.99
2012-05  8-14-2012   132.05;
                     132.99
2013-02  10-8-2013   33.040 through
                     33.060
2014-02  6-10-2014   151.40 through
                     151.42
2014-03  10-14-2014  131.16;
                     131.99
2014-04  10-14-2014  133.10;
                     133.99
2014-07  11-13-2014  33.087
2014-05  12-19-2014  31.23
2015-03  9-1-2015    31.01
2015-05  11-10-2015  10.99
2016-02  3-8-2016    154.01 through
                     154.09
2016-04  3-8-2016    54.05;
                     54.99
2018-01  4-13-2018   30.03
2018-02  4-13-2018   32.03
                     114.01 through
2018-03  7-12-2018   114.03;
                     114.05;
                     114.99
                     156.01 through
2018-04  7-18-2018   156.12;
                     156.99
                     115.30;
                     115.32;
2018-05  9-9-2018    115.36;
                     115.39;
                     115.99
                     112.01 through
2018-06  11-8-2018   112.05;
                     132.04;
                     132.99
2019-01  1-10-2019   31.17
2019-02  2-14-2019   73.20 through
                     73.24
                     115.30;
                     115.32;
2019-03  6-20-2019   115.36;
                     115.39;
                     115.99
2019-04  10-10-2019  94.25 through
                     94.27
2019-06  10-21-2019  110.08;
                     156.04
2020-01  6-11-2020   70.07
2020-04  8-13-2020   94.07
2020-05  8-13-2020   34.080 through
                     34.087
                     112.20 through
                     112.22;
2020-07  10-10-2020  112.99;
                     133.07;
                     133.99
                     155.01 through
2020-08  11-12-2020  155.18;
                     155.99
                     151.01;
2020-09  11-12-2020  151.07;
                     151.08
2020-10  12-10-2020  151.05;
                     151.99
2020-11  12-10-2020  151.06;
                     151.99
2021-01  1-14-2021   32.03
                     151.09;
2021-04  1-14-2021   151.10;
                     151.99
2021-10  10-14-2021  34.150 through
                     34.159
2021-11  12-9-2021   54.02
2021-12  12-9-2021   54.06
2022-01  1-13-2022   151.12
2022-05  4-14-2022   33.075 through
                     33.087
                    
 
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
3-107   - -   115.36
90-1   - -   11.02
96-2   - -   TSO, Table III
-   4-5-1973   TSO, Table II
77-1   1-4-1977   TSO, Table I
8   5-15-1979   TSO, Table III
97-3   12-2-1997   34.115 through 34.120
01-03   2-6-2001   32.17
01-05   7-3-2001   TSO, Table I
2002-01   5-7-2002   51.04
2002-02   6-4-2002   51.03; 51.05
2004-01   8-3-2004   34.019
2004-02   11-4-2004   157.01
2004-03   11-4-2004   72.42
2005-01   1-6-2005   51.01; 51.02
2005-02   5-4-2005   132.04
2007-01   1-9-2007   31.17
2007-02   7-10-2007   34.050 through 34.067; 34.999
2009-02   9-10-2009   133.09; 133.99
2009-03   9-10-2009   131.99
2010-02   1-12-2010   112.20 through 112.22; 112.99; 133.07; 133.99
2010-07   1-11-2011   153.01 through 153.12; 153.25 through 153.29; 153.40
through 153.48; 153.99
2011-01   3-8-2011   151.25 through 151.29; 151.99
2012-01   4-10-2012   131.15; 131.99
2012-03   7-10-2012   92.20 through 92.24; 92.99
2012-05   8-14-2012   132.05; 132.99
2013-02   10-8-2013   33.040 through 33.060
2014-02   6-10-2014   151.40 through 151.42
2014-03   10-14-2014   131.16; 131.99
2014-04   10-14-2014   133.10; 133.99
2014-07   11-13-2014   33.087
2014-05   12-19-2014   31.23
2015-03   9-1-2015   31.01
2015-05   11-10-2015   10.99
2016-02   3-8-2016   154.01 through 154.09
2016-04   3-8-2016   54.05; 54.99
2018-01   4-13-2018   30.03
2018-02   4-13-2018   32.03
2018-03   7-12-2018   114.01 through 114.03; 114.05; 114.99
2018-04   7-18-2018   156.01 through 156.12; 156.99
2018-05   9-9-2018   115.30; 115.32; 115.36; 115.39; 115.99
2018-06   11-8-2018   112.01 through 112.05; 132.04; 132.99
2019-01   1-10-2019   31.17
2019-02   2-14-2019   73.20 through 73.24
2019-03   6-20-2019   115.30; 115.32; 115.36; 115.39; 115.99
2019-04   10-10-2019   94.25 through 94.27
2019-06   10-21-2019   110.08; 156.04
2020-01   6-11-2020   70.07
2020-04   8-13-2020   94.07
2020-05   8-13-2020   34.080 through 34.087
2020-07   10-10-2020   112.20 through 112.22; 112.99; 133.07; 133.99
2020-08   11-12-2020   155.01 through 155.18; 155.99
2020-09   11-12-2020   151.01; 151.07; 151.08
2020-10   12-10-2020   151.05; 151.99
2020-11   12-10-2020   151.06; 151.99
2021-01   1-14-2021   32.03
2021-04   1-14-2021   151.09; 151.10; 151.99
2021-10   10-14-2021   34.150 through 34.159
2021-11   12-9-2021   54.02
2021-12   12-9-2021   54.06
2022-01   1-13-2022   151.12
2022-05   4-14-2022   33.075 through 33.087
2022-06   7-14-2022   152.11, 152.12, 152.99
2022-07   7-14-2022   151.40 through 151.43
2022-08   11-10-2022   54.06
2022-10   11-10-2022   151.13
