TOWN CODE
of
CARNEGIE, OKLAHOMA
2005
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This Town Code of the Town of Carnegie, as supplemented, contains ordinances
and resolutions up to and including Ordinance 309, passed August 13, 2019, and
a resolution passed October 10, 2000. Ordinances and resolutions of the Town
adopted after said ordinance and resolution supersede the provisions of this
Town Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Town office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the Code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
ORDINANCE #236
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF CARNEGIE, OKLAHOMA, ADOPTING THE 2005 "CARNEGIE
TOWN CODE"; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF
CARNEGIE, OKLAHOMA:
SECTION 1: Adoption of 2005 "Carnegie Town Code".
   The 2005 "Carnegie Town Code" is hereby adopted by the Board of Trustees of
the Town of Carnegie, Oklahoma, in its entirety, and same is hereby declared to
be and shall hereinafter constitute the official town code of Carnegie,
Oklahoma, and shall hereinafter be known and cited as the Carnegie Town Code
and that same shall be filed and notification of publication of said code shall
be as provided for by companion Resolution No. 2005-8 approved in connection
herewith.
SECTION 2:
   An immediate necessity existing for the preservation of the public health
and safety, an emergency is hereby declared to exist by reason of which this
ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication or posting, as required by law.
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 15th day of September, 2005.
         
      Wesley Taylor, Mayor
   
Debbie Clinton, Town Clerk
TOWN SEAL
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
 
CHAPTER 1
INCORPORATION; GOVERNING AUTHORITY
SECTION:
1-1-1: Incorporation
1-1-2: Form Of Government
1-1-3: General Powers Of Town
1-1-1: INCORPORATION:
The town of Carnegie, Oklahoma, within the corporate limits as now established
or as hereafter may be established, shall continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate in perpetuity under the name of the "Town of Carnegie,
Oklahoma". It shall succeed to and possess all the property, rights,
privileges, franchises, powers and immunities now belonging to the corporation
known as the town of Carnegie, Oklahoma, and shall be liable for all debts and
other obligations for which the corporation is now legally bound. (1992 Code §
1-1)
1-1-2: FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The municipal government provided for the town shall be the "town board of
trustees" form of government. All powers of the town shall be exercised in the
manner prescribed by this code, future ordinances or state law; provided, that
this code and all future ordinances are not repugnant to the state constitution
and laws. (1992 Code § 1-2)
1-1-3: GENERAL POWERS OF TOWN:
   A.   The town shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges,
franchises and immunities specifically granted to municipalities, or not
prohibited by the state constitution and laws, and all the implied power
necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted.
   B.   The town shall have the power to adopt a corporate seal and alter the
same; to sue and be sued; to make contracts and to grant, extend and renew
franchises. It shall have the power, in accordance with the state constitution
and laws, to accept and administer federal and state grants in aid. It shall
have the power to ordain and enforce local legislation, consistent with the
state constitution and laws, for the proper organization and functioning of
municipal government, for the preservation and enforcement of good government
and order, for the protection of health, life, peace, safety, morals and
property, for the prevention, summary abatement and removal of nuisances, and
otherwise for the promotion of the common welfare.
   C.   The enumeration of particular powers of this code shall not be deemed
to be exclusive or limiting. In addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, the town shall have all the powers which, under the state
constitution and laws, it would be competent for this code specifically to
enumerate. (1992 Code § 1-3)
CHAPTER 2
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Title
1-2-2: Acceptance
1-2-3: Amendments Or Additions To Town Code
1-2-4: Ordinance Adoption And Publication
1-2-5: Adoption Of Codes, Ordinances Or Standards By Reference
1-2-6: Compilation Of Ordinances
1-2-7: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory
1-2-8: Enumeration Of State Law And Local Regulations
1-2-9: Code Alterations
1-2-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of trustees, this town code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Carnegie. This
town code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CARNEGIE TOWN CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided
in section
1-2-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal documents. (2005 Code)
1-2-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-3-1 of this title. (2005 Code)
1-2-3: AMENDMENTS OR ADDITIONS TO TOWN CODE:
   A.   Town Board Authority: The town board of trustees shall have the power
to repeal, alter or amend this code.
   B.   Ordinances Passed Subsequent To Town Code Adoption: All ordinances
passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any way affect said
code, may be supplemented by being numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent
ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof,
such repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission thereof from
reprinted pages. Such inclusion of ordinances passed subsequent to this code
which amend or add to this code (except in the case of repeal) shall be prima
facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this code and
subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted, are readopted as a new code of
ordinances by the town board of trustees.
   C.   Specific Reference To Amended Area Of Code: Amendments to any of the
provisions of this code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific
reference to the chapter, article and section numbers of this code in the
following language: "Section        of Chapter       , Title       , of the
code of ordinances, town of Carnegie, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as
follows: '          '". The new provisions shall then be set out in full as
desired.
   D.   New Section: In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the
town code is to be added, the following language shall generally be used: "The
Code of Ordinances, Town of Carnegie, Oklahoma, is hereby amended by adding a
Section to Chapter        of Title       , which section reads as follows: '   
    '". The new section shall then be set out in full as desired. (1992 Code §
1-167)
1-2-4: ORDINANCE ADOPTION AND PUBLICATION:
   A.   Enacting Clause: The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the
town board of trustees shall be: "BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Trustees of
the Town of Carnegie, Oklahoma"; and of all ordinances proposed by the voters
under their power of initiative, "BE IT ORDAINED by the People of the Town of
Carnegie, Oklahoma".
   B.   Reading And Voting On Proposed Ordinance: Every proposed ordinance
shall be read and a vote of a majority of all the trustees shall be required
for its final passage.
   C.   No Veto Power: The mayor shall have no power to veto any ordinance.
   D.   Publication: Every ordinance, except those exempted by state law, shall
be published by title or in full, within fifteen (15) days after its passage,
in a newspaper of general circulation within the town or county.
   E.   Effective Date: Every ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall
become effective thirty (30) days after its final passage, unless it specifies
a later date.
   F.   Emergency Ordinance: An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which, in
the judgment of the town board of trustees, is necessary for the immediate
preservation of the local welfare, peace, health or safety, and which should
become effective prior to the time when a regular ordinance would become
effective. Every such ordinance shall contain, as a part of its title, the
words "and declaring an emergency" and, in a separate section (herein called
the emergency section), shall declare the emergency. The town board of trustees
shall vote on the emergency section separately and must adopt the emergency
section by a vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of all the members of said
town board. An emergency ordinance shall take effect upon passage, unless it
specifies a later date. (1992 Code § 1-164)
1-2-5: ADOPTION OF CODES, ORDINANCES OR STANDARDS BY REFERENCE:
The town board of trustees, by ordinance, may adopt by reference codes,
ordinances and standards relating to building, plumbing, electrical
installations and other matters which it has the power to regulate. Such a
code, ordinance or standard so adopted, need not be enrolled in this code of
ordinances; provided, that three (3) copies are filed and kept in the office of
the town clerk. (1992 Code § 1-165)
1-2-6: COMPILATION OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   Republication Of Penal Ordinances: Every ten (10) years, the town shall
compile and publish its effective penal ordinances in a permanent form.
   B.   Town Code On File In County Law Library: Two (2) copies of the
compilation of ordinances shall be deposited by the town in the Caddo County
law library.
   C.   Periodic Supplementation: Every two (2) years the town shall prepare,
adopt and publish supplements to its compiled penal ordinances, and no
ordinance shall be enforced if it is not reflected in such compilation or
supplement, if such ordinance was adopted more than one year prior to the
latest compilation or supplement.
   D.   Adoption Of Resolution To Notify Public: When the town has compiled and
published its code of ordinances and succeeding supplements, the town board of
trustees shall adopt a resolution notifying the public of such compliance and
cause certified copies of the resolution, the code of ordinances and the
supplements to be filed in the office of the Caddo County clerk and the county
law library. (1992 Code § 1-166)
1-2-7: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY:
   A.   Effect Of Code Provisions And Ordinances: All provisions of this code
and other ordinances of the town now in effect or adopted in the future are
hereby extended to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the
town outside the corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full force and
effect thereon insofar as they are applicable.
   B.   Meanings Of Words Extended: Any words in any such provision indicating
that its effect is limited to the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed
to mean and include also such outlying real property belonging to, or under the
control of, the town, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   C.   Vehicles And Traffic: The operation of motor vehicles and other traffic
upon roads, streets and highways that form the corporate boundary line of the
town shall be subject to all municipal traffic ordinances and other ordinances
of the town. (1992 Code § 8-13)
1-2-8: ENUMERATION OF STATE LAW AND LOCAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Provisions of state law which affect the town because of its general
relationship to the state may not be enumerated herein, but may be adopted by
reference as inseparable parts of this code.
   B.   Provisions of state law which prescribe specific actions or laws for
the town and its citizens may be included in this code for purposes of clarity.
   C.   Provisions of state law in matters of wider public concern which are
not enumerated herein, but which affect the town and its citizens in a general
way, may not be enumerated herein, but may nevertheless be made a part of this
code through adoption by reference.
   D.   All provisions which are of purely local concern may be specifically
enumerated in this code. The regulations, rules, prohibitions, nuisances,
offenses and other provisions which are of purely local concern, as provided by
state law, and are specifically enumerated herein in detail, shall be enforced
by the town. Duly authorized officers and agents of the town shall have all
powers, duties and responsibilities necessary to enforce the same. (1992 Code §
8-11)
1-2-9: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the town
clerk when directed so to do by order of the board of trustees. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-3-1: Certain Ordinances Not Affected By Code
1-3-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-3-3: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings
1-3-4: Separability Clause
1-3-1: CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE:
   A.   Ordinances Enumerated: Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting
this code shall be construed to repeal, or otherwise affect the validity of,
any of the following, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein:
      1.   Ordinances promising, obligating or guaranteeing the payment of
money for or to the town, authorizing the issuance of any municipal bonds or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness.
      2.   Appropriation ordinances, or ordinances providing for: a) the levy
of taxes; b) an annual budget; c) a special election; or d) prescribing
salaries for town officers and employees.
      3.   Ordinances which provide for the annexation or de-annexation of
territory to or from the town.
      4.   Ordinances approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to, any
contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument, or granting any
franchise.
      5.   Ordinances authorizing or relating to specific public improvements.
      6.   Ordinances vacating, opening or dedicating specific streets and
alleys.
      7.   Ordinances relating to specific street improvements and assessments.
      8.   Ordinances relating to the grade or alignment of specific streets.
      9.   Ordinances naming or renaming specific streets.
      10.   Ordinances granting railroads or others the right to use specific
streets, alleys or rights of way.
      11.   Ordinances changing the zoning district classification of a
specific parcel of real property.
      12.   Other temporary or special ordinances. (1992 Code § 8-10)
   B.   Continuing Effect: All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent
with this code, shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they
expire by their limitations. (1992 Code § 1-162)
1-3-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code, excepting as the town
code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case, this town code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (2005 Code)
1-3-3: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Reviving Prior Ordinance: The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive
any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took
effect.
   B.   Offenses: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (2005 Code)
1-3-4: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
   A.   Declaration Of Invalidity Ineffectual: It is hereby declared to be the
intention of the board of trustees that the sections, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses and phrases of this code are separable and if any phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph or section of said code shall be declared invalid by the
judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs
and sections of said code, since the same would have been enacted by the town
board of trustees without the incorporation in this code of any such valid
phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
   B.   Printing Or Typographical Errors: If any word, phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph or section of this code shall seem invalid through printing
or typographical error, such error or misprint shall not serve to misconstrue
or invalidate the intent thereof, nor affect in any way the intent or validity
of any or all other words, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections
of this code. (1992 Code § 8-16)
CHAPTER 4
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-4-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-4-2: Definitions, General
1-4-3: Catchlines Of Sections; Citations
1-4-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
In the construction of this code and of all subsequent ordinances and
resolutions passed by the board of trustees of the town, the following rules
shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of said town board:
   A.   Number: Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural
and any word importing the plural number shall include the singular, except
where a contrary intention plainly appears.
   B.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   C.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   D.   Or; And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the
sense requires it.
   E.   Preceding Or Following: The words "preceding" or "following" shall mean
next before and next after, respectively.
   F.   Ordinance Or Resolution: The words "ordinance" or "resolution"
contained in the ordinances and resolutions of the town have been changed in
the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances and resolutions is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances and
resolutions. (1992 Code § 8-1; amd. 2005 Code)
1-4-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR TOWN BOARD: The board of trustees of the town of Carnegie.
CHIEF OF POLICE OR POLICE CHIEF: The chief of police or the police officer in
charge of the police force of the town of Carnegie.
CODE, THIS CODE: The town code of the town of Carnegie.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be
done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given (or such act is done) shall be excluded in computing
the time, but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall be counted.
COUNTY: The county of Caddo, state of Oklahoma.
COURT, MUNICIPAL COURT: The municipal court of the town of Carnegie.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Carnegie".
GENDER: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to other
genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
HEALTH OFFICER OR HEALTH DEPARTMENT: Whenever reference is made to the "health
officer" or the "health department", it shall be construed as meaning the
county sanitarian or county health department, unless specific reference is
made to the appointed health officer of the town.
HIGHWAY: Shall include any street, alley, highway, avenue, public place,
square, bridge, underpass or overpass in the town, dedicated or devoted to
public use.
JOINT AUTHORITY: Words purporting to give joint authority to three (3) or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court of the town, including the acting judge
and/or alternate judge thereof, as provided by Oklahoma Statutes and this code.
JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma, wherein the situs of government of the town is situated.
LAW: Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the town, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
MAY; SHALL: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall is mandatory.
MAYOR: The chief executive officer of the town of Carnegie.
MONTH: A calendar month.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS: Whenever any officer, department, board, commission or
other agency is referred to by title alone, such reference shall be construed
as if followed by the words "of the town of Carnegie".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
ORDINANCE: The formal legislative act of the town board of trustees which has
the force and effect of a continuing regulation and a permanent rule of conduct
or government for the town.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Shall extend, and be applied, to associations, corporations, firms,
partnerships and bodies politic and corporate, as well as to individuals.
Whenever used with respect to any penalty, the word "person", applied to
partnerships or associations, shall mean the partners and members thereof, and
as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
POLICE OFFICER: The chief of police or any police officer of the town of
Carnegie.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
RESOLUTION: A special or temporary act of the town board of trustees which is
declaratory of the will or opinion of the town in a given manner, and is in the
nature of a ministerial or administrative act. A resolution is not a law and
does not prescribe rule or conduct of government.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of the street right of way between the curb (or lateral
line of the roadway) and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
STATE OR THIS STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Oklahoma as they
now are or as they may be amended to be.
STREET: Shall include any highway, alley, street, avenue, public place,
underpass or overpass in the town, dedicated or devoted to public use.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TOWN: The town of Carnegie, county of Caddo, state of Oklahoma.
WEEK: Seven (7) days.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to
persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: Unless otherwise designated, a calendar year. (1992 Code § 8-1; amd. 2005
Code)
1-4-3: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS:
The catchlines of sections in this code and citations included at the end of
sections are intended to indicate the contents of the section and historical
source respectively, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles and official
sources of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly
so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the
catchlines, or citations, are amended or reenacted. (1992 Code § 8-15; amd.
2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-5-1: General Penalty For Violations; Judicial Relief
1-5-2: Application Of Provisions
1-5-3: Liability Of Officers
1-5-1: GENERAL PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS; JUDICIAL RELIEF 1 :
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Whenever, in this code or any ordinance of the town,
an act is prohibited, is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or
misdemeanor, or wherever in said code, the doing of any act is required, or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is
provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or of any
such ordinance shall be punishable by a fine in any amount not exceeding the
limits established in section
1-9-22 of this title. Each day on which any violation of this code or of any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
   B.   Judicial Relief: No penalty imposed by, and pursuant to, this code
shall interfere with the right of the town also to apply to the proper courts
of the state of Oklahoma for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate
action against such person, firm or corporation. (1992 Code § 8-30)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 9 of this title.
1-5-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this town code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this town code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this town code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2005 Code)
1-5-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this town code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Corporate Boundaries Map
1-6-1: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES MAP:
   A.   Maintenance And Display: A map depicting the current corporate
boundaries of the town shall be maintained and displayed in the office of the
town clerk.
   B.   Contents; Official Map:
      1.   This map shall reflect all current annexation and de-annexation
ordinances and orders, all plat and/or street vacation orders, and all official
street names and shall represent the official map of the corporate boundaries
of the town.
      2.   All dedicated streets and alleys shall be shown on this map; vacated
streets and alleys shall not be shown on said map, but shall be redrawn by the
methods provided by Oklahoma Statutes.
   C.   Available For Inspection: This map shall be available for public
inspection. (1992 Code § 20-5; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MAYOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election And Terms
1-7-2: Powers Of Town Board
1-7-3: Municipal Policy And Business
1-7-4: Town Board Meetings
1-7-5: Removal Of Trustees; Vacancies
1-7-6: Supervisory Designation Of Trustees
1-7-7: Mayor; Vice Mayor
1-7-1: ELECTION AND TERMS:
   A.   Trustees Elected At Large: The town board of trustees shall consist,
and be composed, of five (5) trustees. Each trustee shall be nominated and
elected at large after November 10, 1988, according to current state law,
without regard to their place of residence within the corporate limits of the
town. Trustees shall be actual residents and registered voters of the town.
   B.   Resolution Calling For Election; Filing Of Candidates:
      1.   The resolution of the town board of trustees calling for a general
or special election to fill the office of trustee shall state the number of
four (4) year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be filled.
The resolution shall direct that the ballot shall state the number of offices
of trustees to be filled for each term, and that the voters shall vote for the
number to be filled.
      2.   Candidates for the office of trustee shall file for a specific term,
which shall be designated on the declaration of candidacy; candidates receiving
the largest pluralities for each designated term shall be elected.
   C.   Terms Of Office: Trustees shall be elected for terms of four (4) years.
(1992 Code § 1-10)
1-7-2: POWERS OF TOWN BOARD:
Except as otherwise provided in this code, all powers of the town, including
the determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in the town board of
trustees. Said town board shall have, and may utilize, all of the powers
granted to the town and said town board by the state constitution and laws.
(1992 Code § 1-11)
1-7-3: MUNICIPAL POLICY AND BUSINESS:
   A.   Compliance With Local And State Laws: The town board of trustees shall
conduct all business of the town, set policy for the efficient administration
of municipal government, administratively supervise all activities of town
employees; and carry out their responsibilities, powers and duties as officers
and as a corporate and politic body, within the limits prescribed by the state
constitution and laws and the town code.
   B.   Discrimination Prohibited: It shall be the policy of the municipal
government that no person shall be discriminated against on the grounds of
race, creed, color, sex, religion, handicap, national origin or age in
employment or other activities sponsored directly or indirectly by the town.
   C.   Voting Requirement; Conflict Of Interest: Every member of the town
board of trustees who shall be present when the opportunity or need arises to
vote upon a question, shall vote thereon, unless excused by the unanimous
consent of those town board members present, or unless said member is directly
or indirectly interested in the question, in which event said interest shall be
disclosed to the town board and it shall be made a matter of record. (1992 Code
§ 1-12)
1-7-4: TOWN BOARD MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings; Open To Public; Notice: Municipal business shall be
conducted at regularly scheduled open and public meetings held in the town hall
(or another agreed upon place which is open to the public). Said meetings for
the following calendar year shall be set by the town board of trustees at the
regularly scheduled meeting in November. Notice of such meetings shall be given
to the county clerk and others, by the town clerk, as provided by state law.
The town clerk shall keep a record of the notices for said meetings in a
register available for public inspection. The town board may make changes to
the date, time and place of the regularly scheduled meetings if proper notice
of such changes is given pursuant to state law.
   B.   Special Or Emergency Meetings: Special or emergency town board meetings
may be called by the mayor, or by a majority of the trustees, upon the serving
of notice, as required by current state law.
   C.   Order Of Business: The town board of trustees shall establish, by
motion or resolution, an order of business for the conduct of its meetings.
(1992 Code § 1-13)
1-7-5: REMOVAL OF TRUSTEES; VACANCIES:
   A.   Removal For Cause: Any trustee, including the mayor, may be removed
from office for any cause specified by, and using the methods prescribed and
specified by, applicable state law for the removal of officers, including 22
Oklahoma Statutes section 1181 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Absenteeism: Whenever a member of the town board of trustees is absent
from more than one-half (1/2) of all regular and special meetings of said town
board held within any period of four (4) consecutive months, said person shall
thereupon automatically cease to hold office, unless the remaining members of
the town board vote to retain said person on said town board.
   C.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies in the membership of the town board of
trustees shall be filled according to applicable provisions of state law. (1992
Code § 1-14)
1-7-6: SUPERVISORY DESIGNATION OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Control Of Certain Activities: The town board of trustees may give its
members supervisory control over designated personnel, departments and/or
activities of the town.
   B.   Committee Of One: Each trustee may be given an appropriate title and
each trustee shall be, in effect, a committee of one of the town board of
trustees, and be subordinate to said town board.
   C.   Improvement Of Public Ways: Members of the town board of trustees shall
superintend the construction, grading, paving and improvement of any municipal
streets, alleys or sidewalks. (1992 Code § 1-15)
1-7-7: MAYOR; VICE MAYOR:
   A.   Selection From Board Members: The town board of trustees shall elect
one of its members as mayor. The mayor shall be elected in each odd numbered
year, at the first town board meeting held after the trustees' terms begin, or
as soon thereafter as practicable.
   B.   Vacancy: When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, the town board
of trustees shall elect another mayor from among its members to serve for the
duration of the unexpired term.
   C.   Preside At Meetings: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
town board of trustees and may call special meetings thereof.
   D.   General Powers And Duties: The mayor shall certify to the correct
enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by the town board of
trustees. The mayor shall have all the powers, rights, privileges, duties and
responsibilities of a trustee, and, as an elected representative of the
citizens of the town, may vote on all matters that come before the town board
of trustees.
   E.   Ceremonies: The mayor shall be recognized as the head of the municipal
government for all ceremonial purposes.
   F.   Vice Mayor Act In Mayor's Absence: In order to ensure service and
leadership during the absence, disability or suspension of the mayor, the town
board of trustees shall elect a vice mayor from among its members.
   G.   Other Duties: The mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed by
state law or ordinance. (1992 Code § 1-20; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Bonds Of Officers
1-8-2: Compensation
1-8-3: Succession In Office
1-8-4: Nepotism; Compatibility Of Offices
1-8-5: Social Security
1-8-1: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Amounts Specified: The Mayor, Vice-Mayor, Town Clerk, Town Treasurer,
and Chief of Police shall each be bonded by the Town within ten (10) days after
their election or appointment, in the following amounts:
 
Mayor           $10,000.00
Vice-Mayor      10,000.00
Town Clerk      10,000.00
Town Treasurer  10,000.00
Chief of Police 2,000.00
 
(Ord. 270, 5-13-2014)
   B.   Other Officers And Employees: The Town Board of Trustees shall, by
motion, establish bond requirements for other Town officers and employees, as
necessary or as required. (1992 Code § 1-160)
1-8-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: The basic compensation of the following elected
Municipal officers shall be as indicated below:
 
Each Trustee   $  90.00 per month
Mayor          140.00 per month
Town Clerk 1   625.00 per pay period
Town Treasurer 400.00 per month
 
(1992 Code § 1-161; amd. Ord. 229, 2-10-2005; 2005 Code; Ord. 273, 1-28-2015;
Ord. 292, 2-14-2019)
   B.   Elected Officials, Changing Salaries: The basic salaries of elected
Town officials shall not be changed after their election or during their term
of office (State Constitution article 23, section 10).
   C.   Authority Of Town Board: The Town Board of Trustees may determine or
regulate the number and class of officers and employees and determine or change
their compensation, by motion or resolution; this provision shall also be
applicable to the Town Clerk and the Town Treasurer, whenever either or both
positions are appointive. (1992 Code § 1-161)
 
Notes
1 1. To be effective upon the expiration of the Town Clerk's current term of
  office.
1-8-3: SUCCESSION IN OFFICE:
   A.   Officers And Employees: All officers and employees of the Town, under
any and all previous ordinances, shall continue in the offices and employments
which they respectively hold, after this Code goes into effect.
   B.   Books And Property: All books, monies or other property belonging to
the Town and in the charge or possession of any officer of the Town shall be
delivered to said person's successor. (1992 Code § 1-162)
1-8-4: NEPOTISM; COMPATIBILITY OF OFFICES:
   A.   Appointment Prohibited: No member of the Town Board of Trustees nor any
other authority of the Municipal government may appoint, or vote for the
appointment of, any person related to said person by affinity or consanguinity
within the third degree, to any office or position of profit in the Municipal
government.
   B.   Relatives Listed: The following relatives shall be considered as within
the third degree of affinity or consanguinity: sons, daughters, grandsons,
granddaughters, great grandsons, great granddaughters, brothers, sisters,
nephews, nieces, aunts, uncles, primary cousins, mothers, fathers, mothers-in-
law, fathers-in-law, grandfathers, grandmothers, grand uncles, grand aunts,
great grandfathers, great grandmothers, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, great
granddaughters-in-law, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, nephews-in-law, nieces-
in-law, aunts-in-law, uncles-in-law, primary cousins-in-law, grandfathers-in-
law, grandmothers-in-law, grand uncles-in-law, grand aunts-in-law, great
grandfathers-in-law, great grandmothers-in-law, grand nephews, grand nieces,
grand nephews-in-law, grand nieces-in-law, stepsons, stepdaughters, stepfathers
or stepmothers. A divorce decree shall be deemed to dissolve all relationships
arising by that marriage.
   C.   Holding More Than One Office: Except as may be otherwise provided by
ordinance, the same person may hold more than one office or position in the
Municipal government. (1992 Code § 1-163; amd. 2005 Code)
1-8-5: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Extension Of Benefits: It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the Town to extend to the employees and officials thereof, not
excluded by law or this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of Federal old
age and survivors insurance, as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act
and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such policy and for that purpose, the
Town shall take such action as may be required by applicable State or Federal
laws or regulations. (1992 Code § 1-130)
   B.   Execution Of Agreements: The Mayor of the Town is hereby authorized and
directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto, with the
appropriate State department as agent or agency, to secure coverage of
employees and officials as provided in subsection A of this section. (1992 Code
§ 1-131)
   C.   Withholdings From Salaries: Withholdings from salaries or wages of
employees and officials for the purpose provided in subsection A of this
section are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as
may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations, and shall
be paid over to the State or Federal agency designated by such laws and
regulations. (1992 Code § 1-132)
   D.   Contributions By Town: There shall be appropriated by the Town, from
available funds, such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable
State or Federal laws or regulations for employers' contributions to the
Federal social security system. Such funds shall be paid over to the State or
Federal agency designated by said laws or regulations. (1992 Code § 1-133)
   E.   Records And Reports: The Town shall keep such records and make such
reports, relative to the Federal social security system, as may be required by
applicable State or Federal laws or regulations. (1992 Code § 1-134)
   F.   Excluded Officers And Employees:
      1.   There is hereby excluded from this section and the benefits
established hereunder, any authority to make any agreement with respect to any
position or any employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by
any other ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official
of the Town.
      2.   There is hereby excluded from this section and the benefits
established hereunder, any authority to make any agreement with respect to any
position, employee or official, compensation for which is on a fee basis, or
any position, employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable
State or Federal laws or regulations. (1992 Code § 1-135)
ARTICLE A.  TOWN CLERK; OFFICE MANAGER/CLERICAL ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Election; Term
1-8A-2: Powers And Duties
1-8A-3: Office Manager/Clerical Administrator
1-8A-1: ELECTION; TERM:
The Town Clerk is an elected official of the Town, elected for a four (4) year
term at a general Municipal election. (2005 Code)
1-8A-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Attend Meetings: The Town Clerk, as an Officer of the Town, shall
attend all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees and keep a journal of the
proceedings of said Town Board.
   B.   Custodian Of Documents, Records, Seal: The Town Clerk shall have
custody of all documents, records and archives of the Town, as well as be
custodian of the Municipal Seal.
   C.   Attest And Affix Seal; File Ordinances: The Town Clerk shall attest and
affix said seal to documents as required by law or ordinance, and shall see
that all ordinances passed are kept on file in the Office of the Town Clerk.
(1992 Code § 1-21)
   D.   Keep Register Of Claims; Draw Warrants:
      1.   The Town Clerk shall keep a register of claims and bills filed
against the Town. It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to keep all claims
against one fund separate and apart from other funds, and each such claim shall
show upon its face the particular fund to which the same is, by law,
chargeable. All claims against the Town shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
      2.   The Town Clerk shall draw all warrants against the Town Treasurer,
but no warrant shall be drawn until first authorized by the Mayor, Vice Mayor
or Town Board of Trustees.
   E.   Collection Of Water Rents: The Town Clerk shall collect all water rents
on meter readings and statements supplied by the Water Department thereof, and
shall pay all such monies collected into the Town Treasury. (1992 Code § 1-21;
amd. 2005 Code)
   F.   Report To Town Board: The Town Clerk shall make monthly reports to the
Town Board of Trustees at each regular meeting and at such other times as they
may require, giving in detail a statement of all matters pertaining to the
office.
   G.   Other Powers And Duties: The Town Clerk shall have such other powers,
duties and functions as may be prescribed by law or ordinance. (1992 Code § 1-
21)
1-8A-3: OFFICE MANAGER/CLERICAL ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Office Created: The position of Office Manager/Clerical Administrator
is hereby created.
   B.   Position Filled By Town Clerk: Said position shall be filled by the
person serving as Town Clerk, unless the Town Board of Trustees shall otherwise
prescribe, by ordinance.
   C.   Duties: The Office Manager/Clerical Administrator shall perform such
additional office operations and maintenance duties as the Town Board may
direct. (Ord. 228, 1-13-2005)
   D.   Rate Of Pay And Benefits: The Office Manager/Clerical Administrator's
position shall be a forty (40) hour per week position with the hourly rate of
pay to be determined by the Town Board of Trustees. Any increases shall be
consistent with Town policies applicable to other Town employees subject to
yearly review and approval by the Town Board of Trustees. Such pay shall not be
subject to constitutional restrictions. All benefits shall be provided in
accordance with Municipal policy. (Ord. 286, 11-22-2016)
ARTICLE B.  TOWN TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Election; Term
1-8B-2: Powers And Duties
1-8B-1: ELECTION; TERM:
The town treasurer is an elected official of the town, elected for a four (4)
year term at a general municipal election. (2005 Code)
1-8B-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Deposit Funds: The town treasurer shall deposit all municipal funds
which come in, in depositories, as required by law. Municipal funds may be
disbursed only as provided by law.
   B.   Receive And Disburse Monies; Books To Successor:
      1.   The town treasurer shall receive all monies due the town from any
and all sources (except as are received by other officers and by them paid to
the town treasurer) and pay out the same on warrants ordered by the town board
of trustees, signed and attested by the town clerk, with the town seal
attached, and signed by the mayor.
      2.   At the expiration of the term of office, the town treasurer shall
deliver to the successor in office all monies, books, papers and records
connected with said office.
   C.   Records And Accounts; Examination:
      1.   The town treasurer shall so keep all accounts as to show where, and
from what sources, all monies paid have been derived, and to whom and when,
such monies, or any part thereof, have been paid. (1992 Code § 1-22)
      2.   All books, accounts and vouchers shall at all times be subject to
the examination of the town board of trustees, and it is hereby made their duty
to examine the same at a regular meeting of such town board, and have
settlement with the said treasurer. (1992 Code § 1-22; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Accounts Of Receipts And Disbursements:
      1.   The town treasurer shall keep the cash accounts of the town in a
book to be kept for that purpose, which book must clearly and fully show all
monies received and disbursed on behalf of the town, setting forth the date and
the amount of such disbursement, and for and on what account the same was
received and disbursed.
      2.   The town treasurer shall issue to every person from whom money is
received a receipt therefor, which shall show the fund to which said money is
to be applied and the purpose of the collection. One copy of said receipt shall
be retained by the town treasurer and one copy thereof furnished to the town
clerk.
   E.   Register Of Warrants:
      1.   The town treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed
and describe each warrant by date, number and amount and the name of the payee.
All warrants so redeemed shall be canceled and kept until the end of the month,
and shall accompany the statement to the town board of trustees at the end of
each month. Said warrants shall be examined by said town board, or a committee
appointed for that purpose, at the first meeting thereafter, by comparison with
the town clerk's warrant register, and checked as redeemed and permanently
filed with the town clerk.
      2.   The town treasurer shall keep in a book for that purpose, a complete
list of every bond and coupon showing the maturing date, to whom sold, the
amount of payment falling due, whether principal or interest, and showing also
the date of redemption of any outstanding bond or interest coupon retired.
   F.   Statement Of Financial Transactions: It shall be the duty of the town
treasurer, at the end of each month, to report to the town board of trustees, a
statement of the financial transactions of the office for the month then ended,
which statement shall be in writing and under oath, and shall set forth clearly
and fully:
      1.   The balance in the treasury at the beginning and at the end of the
month;
      2.   The amount received during the month, from whom, on what account
received, and to what fund applied;
      3.   The amount disbursed during the month, to whom, on what account
disbursed, and to what fund charged;
      4.   The amount of warrants redeemed during the month, from whom
received, and on what account drawn;
      5.   The amount of bonds and interest coupons redeemed during the month;
      6.   The amount of warrants purchased with the sinking fund, with a list
thereof attached;
      7.   The amount that has been credited to the respective funds, which are
or may hereafter be provided by the town board of trustees; and
      8.   The amount of interest, profit, compensation or money received, or
to be received, from any person, bank or corporation, for the use, control or
deposit of said municipal funds, together with the amount of interest earned on
warrants purchased with the sinking fund.
   G.   Other Powers And Duties: The town treasurer shall have such further
powers and duties as may be prescribed by this code, by applicable state law or
by the town board of trustees. (1992 Code § 1-22)
ARTICLE C.  TOWN ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Appointment
1-8C-2: Powers And Duties
1-8C-3: Expense Allowance
1-8C-1: APPOINTMENT:
The town attorney may be appointed by the town board of trustees, on a
contractual basis. (1992 Code § 1-26)
1-8C-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Legal Advice: It shall be the duty of the town attorney to give legal
advice on questions submitted by the town board of trustees, when the subject
matter concerns the powers of any town officials or employees, or the
performance of their duties.
   B.   Draft Ordinances, Legal Forms: The town attorney shall draw such
ordinances, resolutions, notices, forms, leases, deeds, papers or other
documents as may be required or requested by the town board of trustees.
   C.   Prosecute And Defend Actions: The town attorney shall be authorized to
appear, prosecute and defend all actions wherein the town is a party, and shall
institute proceedings in courts of law upon the order of the town board of
trustees.
   D.   Other Duties: The town attorney shall perform such other duties as the
town board of trustees may require; provided, that such duties are included
within the scope of the contractual arrangement. (1992 Code § 1-26)
1-8C-3: EXPENSE ALLOWANCE:
The town attorney shall be allowed actual and necessary traveling and hotel
expenses while outside the town and on official business for said town;
provided, that said business has been approved and directed by the town board
of trustees. (1992 Code § 1-26)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Application Of Chapter
1-9-2: Jurisdiction Of Court
1-9-3: Judge Of The Court
1-9-4: Chief Of Police
1-9-5: Town Attorney
1-9-6: Clerk Of The Court
1-9-7: Payment Of Fine To Court Clerk
1-9-8: Traffic Violations; Procedures
1-9-9: Style Of Prosecutions
1-9-10: Summons For Arrest
1-9-11: Complaints Against Corporation
1-9-12: Warrant Of Arrest
1-9-13: Bail; Temporary Bonds
1-9-14: Arraignment
1-9-15: Postponement Of Trial
1-9-16: Trial Procedure
1-9-17: Contempt
1-9-18: Presence Of Defendant; Failure To Appear
1-9-19: Judgment
1-9-20: Court Costs
1-9-21: Suspension Of Sentence
1-9-22: Penalty
1-9-23: Enforcement By Imprisonment
1-9-1: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Date Of Operation: This chapter shall govern the organization and
operation of the municipal court of the town, as put into operation and
continued by resolution, duly passed and filed in accordance with state law, on
and after July 7, 1970.
   B.   Controlling Provisions: To the extent of conflict between any
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any other ordinance of the
town, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (1992 Code § 11-1)
1-9-2: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The municipal court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine
all prosecutions wherein a violation of any provision of this code or of any
other ordinance of the town is charged, including any such prosecutions
transferred to said court, in accordance with applicable laws. (1992 Code § 11-
2)
1-9-3: JUDGE OF THE COURT:
   A.   Appointment Or Designation: There shall be one judge of the municipal
court, who shall be appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the town board
of trustees. The mayor may be designated as judge upon approval of said town
board.
   B.   Qualifications:
      1.   The municipal judge shall be at least twenty five (25) years of age,
a resident of the town (unless a licensed attorney), have a high school
education (or the equivalent) and be of good moral character. A judge who is a
licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but shall
not accept employment inconsistent with duties as a municipal judge or arising
out of facts which give rise to, or are connected with, cases within the
jurisdiction of the court pending therein, or which might become the subject of
proceedings therein.
      2.   If the judge of the municipal court is not a licensed attorney, the
trial shall be to the court, and the court may not impose a fine which exceeds
fifty dollars ($50.00) and may not order the defendant imprisoned, except for
the nonpayment of fines or costs (see also section
1-9-22 of this chapter).
   C.   Term: The official term of the municipal judge shall be two (2) years,
expiring on the first Monday in May in each odd numbered year. The municipal
judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall serve until a successor is
appointed and qualified.
   D.   Rules For Conduct Of Court: The municipal judge may prescribe rules,
consistent with the state constitution and laws and this code, for the proper
conduct of the business of the municipal court.
   E.   Alternate Judge And Acting Judge: There may be appointed an alternate
judge of the municipal court, possessed of the same qualifications as the
municipal judge, as set out in subsection B1 of this section.
      1.   Said appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same
manner as the municipal judge. The acting judge shall sit in the municipal
court in any case where the municipal judge is absent from the court, unable to
act as municipal judge in a case.
      2.   If, at any time, there is not a municipal judge or alternate judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as municipal judge, the town
board of trustees may appoint some person possessing the qualifications
required by this chapter for the municipal judge, who shall preside as acting
judge over the municipal court in the disposition of pending matters, until
such time as a municipal judge or alternate judge shall be available. (1992
Code § 1-25; amd. 2005 Code)
   F.   Removal: Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the town
board of trustees, for the causes prescribed by the state constitution and laws
for removal from public offices. Provisions of the Oklahoma administrative
procedure act governing individual proceedings (75 Oklahoma Statutes sections
308 through 317, and any amendments or additions thereto in effect at the time
of the hearing) shall govern removal proceedings hereunder, so far as they can
be made applicable.
   G.   Vacancies: A vacancy in the office of municipal judge shall occur if
the incumbent dies, resigns, ceases to possess the qualifications for the
office, or is removed. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of
municipal judge, the mayor shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired
term, using the same procedure as for an original appointment. (1992 Code § 1-
25)
   H.   Compensation:
      1.   Judge: A judge, other than an alternate or an acting judge, shall
receive a monthly salary of no less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and no
more than four hundred dollars ($400.00), to be paid in the same manner as the
salaries of other municipal officials. (1992 Code § 11-6; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Alternate Or Acting Judge: An alternate judge or an acting judge
shall be paid, as prescribed by the town board of trustees, for each day
devoted to the performance of all duties, except that, for any month, the total
payments so calculated shall not exceed the salary of the municipal judge. An
alternate or acting judge who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount
specified by the town board of trustees as the salary of the municipal judge.
(1992 Code § 1-25)
   I.   No Change Of Venue; Disqualification Of Judge:
      1.   In prosecutions before the municipal court, no change of venue shall
be allowed, but the municipal judge before whom the case is pending may certify
a personal disqualification or may be disqualified from sitting, under the
terms, conditions and procedures provided by law for courts of record.
      2.   If the municipal judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by
an alternate or acting judge, appointed as provided in this section. (1992 Code
§ 11-7)
1-9-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or processes of the municipal court shall be directed to the chief of
police of the town, who shall be the principal officer of the court. (1992 Code
§ 11-8)
1-9-5: TOWN ATTORNEY:
The town attorney, or a duly designated assistant, shall be the prosecuting
officer of the municipal court, and shall be authorized to prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the town, and to prosecute and resist
appeals and proceedings in error and review from the court to any other courts
of the state. The town attorney shall also be authorized to represent the town
in all proceedings arising out of matters of the court. (1992 Code § 11-9)
1-9-6: CLERK OF THE COURT:
The town clerk, or a designated deputy, shall be the clerk of the court. Duties
of the court clerk shall include the following:
   A.   Assisting the municipal judge in recording the proceedings of the court
and in preparing writs, processes and other papers;
   B.   Administering oaths required in proceedings before the court;
   C.   Entering all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the
court;
   D.   Performing such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the municipal judge shall direct;
   E.   Receiving and receipting for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
monies payable to the court; and
   F.   Assuming responsibility for placing, or having placed, all monies
received (except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed for special purposes), in the general fund of the town, or in such
other fund and in such manner as the town board of trustees may direct, by
motion or resolution. (1992 Code § 11-10; amd. 2005 Code)
1-9-7: PAYMENT OF FINE TO COURT CLERK 1 :
   A.   Payment To Court Clerk: Persons who are cited for violation of any of
the traffic or other ordinances of the town may elect to pay a fine in the
court clerk's office according to the bond schedule set by the town board of
trustees. (Res. 2000-1, 2-10-2000; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Court Requirements; Payment Of Fine:
      1.   The court may adopt further rules to implement this section.
      2.   Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final
determination of the case against the defendant.
      3.   If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this section
fails so to do, prosecution shall proceed under other provisions of this
chapter. (1992 Code § 11-11)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-8 of this code.
1-9-8: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES 1 :
   A.   Conditions For Release For Traffic Violations: If a police officer
observes facts which are believed to constitute a violation of the traffic
ordinances of the town, committed by any person, whether a resident of this
state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for
a violation of a town traffic ordinance, such person shall be released by the
arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by Oklahoma, another state jurisdiction within the United States,
or any participating jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact.
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person. (1992 Code § 11-12)
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear, as provided
for on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by a treating physician.
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by a treating physician; (1992 Code § 11-12;
amd. 2005 Code)
         d.   Eluding, or attempting to elude, a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with an offense stated in subsections
A4a through A4f of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   Arresting Officer Duties Upon Release Of Traffic Violator:
      1.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in subsection A of this section, then the
arresting officer shall, in writing, in a form prescribed by the town board of
trustees, or a duly designated delegate:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
      2.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance, based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment, is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driver's license in Oklahoma, or in the
nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   C.   Continue Or Reschedule Arraignment: The court, or the court clerk, as
directed by the court, may continue or reschedule the date and time of
arraignment upon request of the arrested person or an attorney. If the
arraignment is continued or rescheduled, the arrested person shall remain on
personal recognizance and written promise to appear until such arraignment, in
the same manner and with the same consequences, as if the continued or
rescheduled arraignment were entered on the citation by the arresting officer
and signed by the defendant. An arraignment may be continued or rescheduled
more than one time; provided, however, that the court shall require an
arraignment to be had within a reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of the
defendant to appear for arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as
provided for in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Guilty Plea; Payment Of Fine: A defendant released upon personal
recognizance may elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the
violation charged at any time before a requirement to appear for arraignment,
by indicating such plea on the copy of the furnished citation, or on a legible
copy thereof, together with the date of the plea and a signature. The defendant
shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the
appropriate court clerk. Payment of the fine and costs may be made by personal,
cashier's, traveler's, certified or guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial
money order, or other form of payment approved by the court, in an amount
prescribed as bail for the offense; provided, however, that the defendant shall
not use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of
guilty or nolo contendere, as provided for in this subsection, such plea shall
be accepted by the court and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as
prescribed in this chapter as bail for the violation.
   E.   Failure To Appear; Warrant; License Suspension:
      1.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, a complaint shall be filed and the
case shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter. The municipal
court clerk, within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the
citation was issued by the arresting officer, shall notify the state department
of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for
arraignment, as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied, as provided by law.
      2.   Additionally, the court clerk shall request the state department of
public safety to either suspend the defendant's driver's license to operate a
motor vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and request
suspension of the defendant's driver's license in accordance with the
provisions of the nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall
be on a form approved or furnished by the state department of public safety.
The court clerk shall not process the notification and request provided for in
this subsection if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case; or
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear, as provided for in this section, or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment; or
         c.   The violation related to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   Record Of License Suspension Requests; Notification: The municipal
court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver's license
suspension submitted to the state department of public safety pursuant to the
provisions of this section. When the court or court clerk receives appropriate
bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other
arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the court clerk
shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant personally
appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
defendant at the address noted on the citation, or at such other address as is
furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or court clerk shall notify
the home jurisdiction of the defendant, as listed on the citation, if such
jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator compact, and shall, in all
other cases, notify the department of the resolution of the case. The form of
proof and the procedures for notification shall be approved by the state
department of public safety; provided, however, that the court or court clerk's
failure to furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided for in this
subsection shall in no event create any civil liability upon the court, the
court clerk, the state of Oklahoma or any political subdivision thereof, or any
state department or agency, or employee thereof. Duplicate proof shall be
furnished to the person entitled thereto, upon request.
   G.   Residents, Issuance Of Citation: If a resident of the town is arrested
by a law enforcement officer for the violation of any traffic ordinance for
which subsections A through F of this section do not apply, the officer shall
immediately release said person if the person acknowledges receipt of a
citation by signing it; provided, however, that the arresting officer need not
release said person if it reasonably appears to the officer that the person may
cause self-injury or injury to others, or damage to property if released, that
the person will not appear in response to the citation, or the person is
arrested for an offense against a person or property. If said person fails to
appear in response to the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case
shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   H.   Bail; Fine:
      1.   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign
a citation as provided for in subsection G of this section, said person shall
be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on
personal recognizance. A fine for up to the maximum amount authorized by courts
not of record may be assessed for failure of a person to have a valid driver's
license, when charged with a traffic violation.
      2.   If a resident or nonresident of the town is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which subsections A
through F of this section do not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
      3.   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the provisions
of subsections G, H1 and H2 of this section shall be determined by the judge,
who shall prescribe rules for the receipt of bail and for release on personal
recognizance. In the event of arrests at night, emergencies, or when the judge
is not available, a court official, the chief of police or a designated
representative may be authorized by the judge, subject to such conditions as
shall be prescribed by the judge, to accept a temporary cash bond in a
sufficient amount to secure the appearance of the accused. The cash bond shall
not exceed the maximum fine provided for by ordinance for each offense charged.
The court official, chief of police or a designated representative is
authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by the judge, to
release a resident of the town on personal recognizance.
   I.   Arraignment: If the defendant is not eligible for release upon personal
recognizance, as provided for in subsections A through G of this section, or is
eligible but refuses to sign a written promise to appear, the officer shall
deliver the person to an appropriate judge for arraignment and the judge shall
proceed as otherwise provided for by law. If no judge is available, the
defendant shall be placed in the custody of the appropriate municipal jailor or
custodian, to be held until a judge is available, or bail is posted as provided
for by ordinance, before or after arraignment.
   J.   Overweight Or Hazardous Materials Violation: If a resident or
nonresident is arrested for any overweight violation, a violation of a special
permit exceeding authorized permit weight, or violation relating to the
transportation of hazardous material, the arresting officer may release the
defendant if the defendant deposits with the arresting officer appropriate bail
or payment of the fine and costs in an amount and in the form as provided in
this chapter, except currency.
   K.   Additional Violation: In the event the defendant is additionally
arrested for any violation for which personal recognizance is authorized
pursuant to subsections A through F of this section, the arresting officer, for
such additional violation, may either release the defendant upon such
recognizance, or require bail as provided for in this section.
   L.   Inability To Post Bail: If the defendant is unable to post bail with
the arresting officer, then the officer shall proceed as otherwise provided for
in this section.
   M.   Custody Of Juveniles Or Other Traffic Violators: Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, a juvenile may be held in custody pursuant to the
provisions of this section, but shall be incarcerated separately from any adult
offender; provided, however, that the arresting officer shall not be required
to:
      1.   Place a juvenile into custody as provided for in this section.
      2.   Place any other traffic offender into custody:
         a.   Who is injured, disabled or otherwise incapacitated; or
         b.   Whose custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo or items requiring special maintenance
or care; or
         c.   Where, if extraordinary circumstances exist in the judgment of
the arresting officer, custodial arrest should not be made.
      3.   In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and time
for arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person fails to
appear without good cause shown, the court may issue a warrant for the person's
arrest.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to:
         a.   Create any duty on the part of the officer to release a person
from custody;
         b.   Create any duty on the part of the officer to make any inquiry or
investigation relating to any condition which may justify release under this
subsection; or
         c.   Create any liability upon any officer, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, arising from the decision to release or not to release
such person from custody pursuant to the provisions of this subsection.
   N.   Parking Violations: If the alleged offense is a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator is not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in this section, with such variation as the circumstances require.
The operator of the vehicle shall be under full obligation to respond to the
citation. (1992 Code § 11-12)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-8 of this code.
1-9-9: STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS:
All prosecutions for violations of this code or other ordinances of the town
shall be styled "The Town of Carnegie, Oklahoma, Plaintiff, vs. (naming
defendant or defendants)". Except as otherwise provided with respect to traffic
violations, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint and
setting forth concisely the offense charged. (1992 Code § 11-13)
1-9-10: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Issuance; Contents Of Summons: Upon the filing of a complaint charging
a violation of this code or other ordinances of the town, the municipal judge,
unless said judge determines to issue a warrant of arrest, unless the defendant
previously has been issued a citation, or unless said defendant has been
arrested and given bond for such appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the
person charged, specifying the address or place of residence (if known),
stating the offense charged and giving notice to answer the charge in the
municipal court on a day certain, five (5) days hence (Sundays and holidays
excepted), or the next municipal court date after the summons is served,
containing a provision for the official return of the summons and including
such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons Or Warrant: The summons shall be served by delivering a
copy to the defendant personally. Failure to appear and answer the summons
within the prescribed period shall constitute indirect contempt of court, and a
warrant shall be issued for the defendant's arrest, as provided by this
chapter. (1992 Code § 11-14)
1-9-11: COMPLAINTS AGAINST CORPORATION:
   A.   Issuance Of Summons: Upon complaint against a corporation being filed
with the municipal judge of the town, said judge shall issue a summons in a
form as outlined in this chapter, signed with the title of office, requiring
the corporation to appear before said judge at a specific time and place to
answer the complaint.
   B.   Serving Of Summons: The summons must be served at least two (2) days
before the day of appearance fixed therein, by delivering a copy thereof and
showing the original to the president, secretary, cashier or managing agent or
director of the corporation.
   C.   Trial Before Judge: At the time appointed in the summons, the municipal
judge shall try the complaint in the same manner as in the case of any other
person brought before said court.
   D.   Collection Of Fine: When a fine is imposed upon conviction, it may be
collected by the municipal judge making a transcript of the proceedings
thereof, together with the judgment of the court duly certified and filed with
the clerk of the district court, and execution shall be issued thereon and
served by the sheriff of the county, as in cases of execution generally. (1992
Code § 11-15)
1-9-12: WARRANT OF ARREST:
   A.   Arrest Warrant Form: Except as may otherwise be provided in this code,
upon the filing of a complaint, approved by the endorsement of the town
attorney or by the municipal judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest.
   B.   Execution Of Warrant: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to
execute such warrant as promptly as possible, either: 1) personally; 2) through
a duly constituted member of the police force of the town; or 3) through any
other person lawfully authorized to act. (1992 Code § 11-16; amd. 2005 Code)
1-9-13: BAIL; TEMPORARY BONDS:
   A.   Release Of Arrested Person Upon Signing Citation: Whenever a resident
of the town is arrested for a violation of any ordinance by a police officer of
the town, the officer shall immediately release such person if said individual
acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it, unless it reasonably appears
to the officer that the person may cause self-injury or injury to others, or
damage to property, if released, or if it reasonably appears that the person
will not appear in response to the citation. (If such person fails to appear in
response to the citation, an arrest warrant shall be issued and an appearance
in court shall be compelled.)
   B.   Resident Posting Bail: Whenever a resident of the town is arrested by a
police officer of the town for the violation of any ordinance, and is not
released by being permitted to sign a citation as provided in subsection A of
this section, said resident shall be admitted to bail either before or after
arraignment, or released on said person's own recognizance.
   C.   Nonresident Posting Bail; Nontraffic Violation: Whenever a nonresident
of the town is arrested by a police officer of the town for a violation other
than a traffic violation, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to
bail either before or after arraignment.
   D.   Traffic Violations; Method Of Posting Bail: The town may require any
person who is arrested by a police officer of the town for a municipal traffic
violation to comply with statutory procedures for state traffic violations,
with respect to the release of the arrested person. The following methods of
posting bail shall apply: (1992 Code § 11-17)
      1.   Posting cash bail, in exchange for a receipt therefor, issued by the
arresting officer; or
      2.   Depositing with the arresting officer a "guaranteed arrest bond
certificate". (1992 Code § 11-17; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Amount And Condition Of Bail:
      1.   The amount and any conditions of bail granted under this section
shall be determined by the municipal judge, who shall prescribe rules for the
receipt of bail and for release on personal recognizance.
      2.   In the event of arrests at night, other emergencies, or when the
municipal judge is not available, the chief of police (or a designated
representative) shall be authorized by the municipal judge, under such
conditions as shall be prescribed by said judge, to accept a temporary cash
bond in a sufficient amount to secure the appearance of the accused, but in no
event shall the cash bond be more than the allowable maximum fine for each
offense charged.
      3.   The chief of police (or his designated representative) is
authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by the municipal
judge, to release a resident of the town on said person's own recognizance.
(1992 Code § 11-17)
1-9-14: ARRAIGNMENT:
Upon making an appearance before the municipal court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The municipal judge or the town attorney shall read the complaint to
the defendant, inform said defendant of all legal rights, of the consequences
of conviction, and ask whether the plea is guilty or not guilty. If the
defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to judgment and sentence, or may
continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(1992 Code § 11-18)
1-9-15: POSTPONEMENT OF TRIAL:
Before a trail commences in the municipal court, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof. (1992 Code § 11-19)
1-9-16: TRIAL PROCEDURE:
In all trials in the municipal court as to matters not covered: a) in this
chapter; b) by the statutes relating to municipal criminal courts; or c) by
rules duly promulgated by the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure
applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply, to the
extent that they can be made effective. (1992 Code § 11-20)
1-9-17: CONTEMPT:
   A.   Obedience To Orders: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made
by the municipal judge or by the municipal court may be enforced by said judge,
who may fine or imprison for contempt committed while holding court, or
committed against process issued by said judge, in the same manner and to the
same extent, as the district courts of this state.
   B.   Offense: It shall be an offense to be in contempt, directly or
indirectly, of the municipal court of the town, and of its orders. (1992 Code §
11-21)
1-9-18: PRESENCE OF DEFENDANT; FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Presence Required: The defendant must be personally present at the
trial in the municipal court.
   B.   Procedure Upon Failure To Appear: If, without sufficient excuse, a
defendant fails to appear according to the terms or conditions of the bond,
either for hearing, arraignment, trial or judgment, or upon any other occasion
when presence in court or before the magistrate may be lawfully required, the
municipal judge may direct that fact to be entered upon the court minutes,
thereby declaring the bond to be forfeited. Without advancing court costs, said
judge shall then cause the forfeiture to be certified to the Oklahoma
department of public safety. (1992 Code § 11-22; amd. 2005 Code)
1-9-19: JUDGMENT:
   A.   Entering In Docket: At the close of a trial in the municipal court,
judgment must be rendered by the municipal judge, who shall cause it to be
entered in his docket.
   B.   Acquittal: If the judgment of the Municipal Court is of acquittal and
the defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, said defendant
must be discharged at once.
   C.   Guilty Plea Or Judgment: If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted
after trial, the Municipal Court must render judgment thereof, fixing the
penalty within the limits prescribed by this Code or other applicable
ordinance, and imposing sentence accordingly. (1992 Code § 11-23)
1-9-20: COURT COSTS:
   A.   Costs Imposed: If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the
Court shall tax the costs to the defendant, in a sum not to exceed the amount
set by State law, including the fees and mileage of witnesses, but not
including court costs. (1992 Code § 11-24; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Court Costs: Court costs shall be in addition to any fine imposed and
shall not exceed the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per case plus the fees and
mileage of witnesses as provided in subsection A of this section, subject to
the limitations of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 14-111(F) and any other
limitations or exceptions imposed by law. (Ord. 254, 8-18-2010)
   C.   Officers Training Fund: For every fine or bond forfeiture of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) or more collected by the Municipal Court, the amount
required by current State law, shall be paid to the court as a separate penalty
assessment (which shall be in addition to all other fines and costs), to be
used to reimburse the State Law Enforcement Officers Training Fund. The Town
Treasurer, or other individual designated by the Town Board of Trustees, shall
forward the total reimbursement to the State, as long as required by, and in
accordance with, State law. (1992 Code § 11-24; amd. 2005 Code)
1-9-21: SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE:
After conviction and sentence of a defendant in the Municipal Court of the
Town, the Municipal Judge may suspend sentence in accordance with the
provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by,
applicable provisions of title 11 Oklahoma Statutes, as amended. (1992 Code §
11-26)
1-9-22: PENALTY:
   A.   Judge, Licensed Attorney: If the Judge of the Municipal Court of the
Town is a licensed attorney, the maximum fine that may be imposed for traffic
related offenses related to speeding or parking shall not exceed two hundred
dollars ($200.00). For all other offenses, the maximum fine that may be imposed
shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Judge, Not A Licensed Attorney:
      1.   If the Judge of the Municipal Court of the Town is not a licensed
attorney but has complied with the requirements of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
27-104(F), the maximum fine that may be imposed shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   If the Judge of the Municipal Court of the Town is not a licensed
attorney, the maximum fine that may be imposed shall be fifty dollars ($50.00),
except as provided in subsection B1 of this section. (Res. 2000-1, 2-10-2000)
   C.   Court Collection Fee: A collection fee of thirty five percent (35%) of
court penalties, costs, fines and fees in cases in which the accused has failed
to appear or otherwise failed to satisfy a monetary obligation imposed by the
court shall be added to any such case which is referred to a collection agency
for collection. (Ord. 284, 10-13-2016)
1-9-23: ENFORCEMENT BY IMPRISONMENT:
If a person is fined for violation of a Municipal ordinance who is financially
able but refuses or neglects to pay the fine or costs, or both, payment may be
enforced by imprisonment, until same shall be satisfied, at the rate of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per day or at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day
for each day worked by prisoners toward fines or costs, or such person may be
compelled to satisfy the amount owed by working on the streets, alleys,
avenues, areas, and public grounds of the Town, subject to the direction of a
proper supervisor or officer, at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for
useful labor, until fines or costs are satisfied. (Ord. 250, 12-11-2008)
CHAPTER 10
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Town Elections
1-10-1: TOWN ELECTIONS:
   A.   Town Not To Be Governed By Oklahoma Town Meeting Act: Pursuant to 11
Oklahoma Statutes 16-302, the Town of Carnegie, Oklahoma, hereby declares that
it shall not be governed by the Oklahoma Town Meeting Act, 11 Oklahoma Statutes
16-301 et seq., as a means of electing its officers and deciding initiative and
referendum questions, due to data developed in the latest Federal Decennial
Census.
   B.   Elections To Be Conducted By Caddo County Election Board: The Town of
Carnegie, Oklahoma shall continue to elect its officers and decide initiative
and referendum questions through elections conducted by the Caddo County
Election Board pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes 16-101 et seq. (Ord. 267, 12-
12-2013)
TITLE 2
FINANCE AND TAXATION
 
CHAPTER 1
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS PROCEDURES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Compliance With Municipal Budget Act
2-1-2: Purchasing Agent; Issuance Of Purchase Orders
2-1-3: Purchasing And Sales Procedures
2-1-4: Competitive Bidding
2-1-5: Insurance
2-1-6: Capital Improvements Fund
2-1-7: Purchasing Procedure; Payment Of Claims
2-1-1: COMPLIANCE WITH MUNICIPAL BUDGET ACT:
The Town opts to come under, and comply with, the Municipal Budget Act, 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 17-201 et seq., with all its provisions and
requirements; and the provisions of said Act shall take precedence over any
other State law, or Municipal ordinance or resolution applicable to Municipal
budgets, except as may be provided otherwise in the Act. (Res. 1996-1, 5-7-
1996)
2-1-2: PURCHASING AGENT; ISSUANCE OF PURCHASE ORDERS:
The Town Clerk is hereby designated as the Municipal purchasing agent, and is
authorized, without prior Town Board of Trustees' approval, to issue purchase
orders for the purpose of obtaining supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services that do not exceed three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00)
in a single transaction. Said purchase orders shall be issued only at the
request, and with proper approval, of department heads to include, the Town
Clerk, the Public Works Authority Supervisor, the Police Chief, the Fire Chief
and the EMS Director. (Ord. 296, 6-13-2019)
2-1-3: PURCHASING AND SALES PROCEDURES:
   A.   Definition: "Contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter,
shall mean services performed for the Town by persons not in the employ of the
Town and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in
connection with such services under express or implied contract. "Contractual
services" shall include travel, freight, express, parcel post, postage,
telephone, telegraph, utilities, rents, printing and binding, repairs,
alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets, bridges and other
physical facilities of the Town.
   B.   Town Board Authority: The Town Board of Trustees shall contract for and
purchase, or issue purchase authorization for, all supplies, materials and
equipment for the operation of the Municipal government. Before the purchase
of, or contract for, any supplies, materials or equipment, or the sale of any
surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment, ample opportunity for
competitive bidding, under such regulations and with such exceptions as said
Town Board may prescribe, shall be given. (1992 Code § 1-60)
   C.   Disposition Of Surplus Property:
      1.   Subject to the provisions of State law and this section, surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials or equipment belonging to the Town may be sold as
provided for in subsection C3 of this section; traded in or exchanged for new
supplies, materials or equipment; or sold or transferred to other departments,
agencies, cities or towns authorized to receive such property. (Ord. 285, 10-
26-2016)
      2.   No sale shall be made under this section until the Town Board of
Trustees has declared the supplies, materials or equipment involved to be
surplus or obsolete. (1992 Code § 1-60)
      3.   Except as provided for in subsection C1 of this section, the Town
Board of Trustees shall advertise other sales under this section in a newspaper
of general circulation in the Town or County, or in such other manner as deemed
necessary to adequately reach prospective buyers to give them an opportunity to
make bids. All bids shall be sealed and opened in public at a designated time
and place, except when the sale is by auction. The Town Board of Trustees may
repeatedly reject all bids and advertise again. The Town Board of Trustees
shall sell such supplies, materials and equipment to the highest responsible
bidder and, if necessary, shall cast lots in case of a tie to determine to whom
to sell. (Ord. 285, 10-26-2016)
   D.   Purchase Of Supplies, Materials And Equipment: The Mayor, and/or Vice
Mayor, subject to any regulations which the Town Board of Trustees may
prescribe, shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase authorization
for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments and
agencies of the Municipal government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall require the prior approval of the town
board of trustees. (Ord. 203, 8-27-1997; amd. 2005 Code)
2-1-4: COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
   A.   Procedure For Bid Request And Acceptance:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this section, before
the town board of trustees makes any purchase of, or contract for, supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services, it shall submit to at least three
(3) persons, firms or corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or
to a smaller number if there are not three (3) dealing in and able to supply
the same, a request for quotation or invitation to bid and specifications, to
give them an opportunity to bid.
      2.   As an alternative, the town board may publish notice of the proposed
purchase in a newspaper of general circulation within the town or county.
      3.   The town board of trustees shall favor a person, firm or corporation
in the town when this can be done without additional cost to the town, but they
shall submit requests for quotation to those outside the town when necessary to
secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or when they think that they
can make a saving for the town.
      4.   All bids shall be sealed and opened in public at a designated time
and place. The town board of trustees may repeatedly reject all bids and may
again submit to the same or other persons, firms or corporations, the request
for quotations or invitation to bid, or again publish notice of the proposed
purchase.
      5.   The town board of trustees shall purchase from the bidder whose bid
is most advantageous to the town, considering price, quality, date of delivery
and the like.
      6.   In the event of a tie, the town board may cast lots to determine
from whom to make a purchase, or may divide the purchase among those bidding,
always accepting the bids most advantageous to the town. (1992 Code § 1-61)
   B.   Purchases Allowed Without Bid: The town board of trustees may purchase,
or authorize the purchase of, the following without giving an opportunity for
competitive bidding:
      1.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services of a
nonprofessional nature, the cost of which does not exceed twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) in a single transaction;
      2.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which has a uniform price wherever
bought;
      3.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers;
      4.   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service, etc.)
purchased from a public utility corporation, commission or other government
authority; or
      5.   Contractual services of a professional nature such as engineering,
legal, architectural and medical services, subject to other policies adopted by
the town board governing such procurement. (1992 Code § 1-61; amd. 2005 Code)
2-1-5: INSURANCE:
   A.   Municipal Property: The town board of trustees may insure municipal
property, as authorized by Oklahoma Statutes. Any money received as a result of
destruction, damages or loss of such insured property shall be accounted for,
and used, as provided by said statutes.
   B.   Property Of Individuals Damaged By Vehicles Or Equipment: The town
board of trustees may purchase insurance to pay damages to persons sustaining
injuries or damages to property as a result of negligent operation of motor
vehicles or motorized equipment of the town.
   C.   Health Insurance:
      1.   The town board of trustees may provide hospital, health and medical
insurance, through any company authorized to do business in Oklahoma, for any
or all of its officers or employees and their dependents, whether said officers
or employees are engaged in governmental or nongovernmental functions of the
town.
      2.   The town board may pay a portion or all of said premiums from any
municipal funds, and may deduct from the wages or salary of any such officer or
employee, upon written authority signed by the officer or employee, amounts for
the payment of all or any portion of the monthly premium for same. (1992 Code §
1-62)
2-1-6: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUND:
   A.   Fund Created: There is hereby created and established a capital
improvements fund for the town, which shall not be subject to fiscal
operations.
   B.   Disposition Of Proceeds: The proceeds of said fund, together with any
interest and increments thereto, may, at the discretion of the town board of
trustees, be used for the following purposes only:
      1.   To meet principal and interest requirements on general obligation
bonds;
      2.   When general obligation bond requirements are met, to make cash
expenditures for capital improvements or equipment for street, electric, water,
storm drainage, or sewer purposes; or
      3.   Where transfers from said fund or any part thereof to a sinking fund
or other appropriate municipal or trust funds are necessary to accomplish such
purposes, the town board is authorized to make such transfer of funds. (1992
Code § 1-63)
2-1-7: PURCHASING PROCEDURE; PAYMENT OF CLAIMS:
   A.   Determination Of Available Appropriation; Approval:
      1.   For all purchases of goods or services less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), the approved purchase order or contract shall be forwarded
to an officer or employee charged with the appropriation and expenditure
records who shall determine that there exists available appropriation in the
accounts to be charged. Upon such determination, the officer or employee shall
attest to that fact in writing.
      2.   If appropriation is not available for the proposed purchase or
commitment, the purchase or commitment shall not proceed until budget
amendments are authorized to provide sufficient appropriation.
      3.   Upon approval of the purchasing agent and officer or employee
charged with keeping the appropriation and expenditure records, the original
copy of the purchase order shall be filed in a pending file awaiting delivery
of the goods or services.
   B.   Delivery Of Merchandise Or Contract; Submitting Invoices:
      1.   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of
contract provisions, an invoice or claim form shall be obtained adequately
documenting request for payment. The officer or employee receiving satisfactory
delivery of merchandise or contract service shall acknowledge such fact by
signing the invoice, claim form, delivery ticket or receiving invoice.
      2.   The invoice or claims form, along with the written acknowledgment of
receipt, shall be forwarded to the town clerk who shall review the invoice for
accuracy and propriety, including comparison to the authorized requisition,
purchase order or contract, if applicable.
      3.   Upon completion of the town clerk's review, the invoices or claim
forms (except those to be paid with federal or state monies) along with the
related supporting documentation shall be submitted to the mayor or vice mayor
for consideration and approval of payment, along with an accompanying invoice
or claims listing, which shall be approved in writing by the mayor or vice
mayor.
   C.   Submitting Claims To Treasurer:
      1.   Upon approval of the invoices or claims for payment, checks
(warrants) or other payment documents as authorized by state law 1  shall be
prepared and submitted to the town treasurer, along with a copy of the approved
invoice or claims listing.
      2.   The treasurer shall compare the checks (warrants) or other payment
documents to the invoice or claims listing and verify their accuracy. Upon
verification, the treasurer, town clerk and mayor or vice mayor, shall sign the
checks (warrants) or other documents and prepare them for distribution.
   D.   Recording Of Disbursements: The town clerk shall record or cause to be
recorded in the appropriate journals and ledgers the purchases and cash
disbursements incurred and paid.
   E.   Copies Of Approved Claims To Town Board: A copy of the approved invoice
or claims list and/or check (warrant) register may be provided to the board of
trustees for informational purposes; however, town board approval is not
required prior to the payment of the invoices or claims if incurred and paid in
accordance with the provisions above. (Ord. 224, 3-11-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 17-102.
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL TAXES
ARTICLE A.  SALES TAX
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Short Title
2-2A-2: Definitions
2-2A-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-2A-4: Subsisting State Permits
2-2A-5: Effective Date
2-2A-6: Purpose Of Revenues
2-2A-7: Tax Imposed
2-2A-8: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
2-2A-9: Tax Due Date
2-2A-10: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
2-2A-11: Tax Constitutes Debt
2-2A-12: Collection By Vendors
2-2A-13: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
2-2A-14: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
2-2A-15: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
2-2A-16: Fraudulent Returns
2-2A-17: Records Confidential
2-2A-18: Amendments
2-2A-19: Provisions Cumulative
2-2A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall constitute, shall be known and may be cited as, the TOWN OF
CARNEGIE, OKLAHOMA, SALES TAX ORDINANCE. (1992 Code § 1-70)
2-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Statute Definitions Adopted: The definitions of words, terms, and
phrases contained in the Oklahoma sales tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1352 and 1352.1, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this article. (1992 Code § 1-71; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Tax Collector Defined: The term "tax collector" as used herein means
the department of the town government or the official agency of the state duly
designated according to law, or contractually authorized by law, to administer
the collection of the tax herein levied. (1992 Code § 1-72)
2-2A-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state statutes for purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax
code 1 . (1992 Code § 1-73)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 1350 et seq.
2-2A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional municipal permit for the same purpose. (1992 Code § 1-74)
2-2A-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become and be effective, including its most current level,
on and after July 1, 1978, subject to the approval of a majority of the
registered voters of the town voting on the same, in the manner prescribed by
Oklahoma Statutes. (1992 Code § 1-75)
2-2A-6: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
   A.   Nonspecified Functions: It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this
sales tax article to provide a three percent (3%) tax to generate revenues for
the support of all nonspecified functions of the municipal government of the
town.
   B.   Tri-County Municipal Hospital: An additional tax of one percent (1%)
shall provide revenue for the support of the Carnegie Tri-County Municipal
Hospital. (Ord. 210, 11-8-2001)
2-2A-7: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of four percent (4%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the sales tax
law of Oklahoma. (1992 Code § 1-77; amd. Ord. 210, 11-8-2001; 2005 Code)
2-2A-8: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The town sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds of
such sales as specified by the Oklahoma sales tax code, and exemptions from
such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to said Oklahoma sales tax code. (2005
Code)
2-2A-9: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the sales tax law
of the state of Oklahoma. (1992 Code § 1-80)
2-2A-10: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the manner and form provided for payment of the state sales tax under
the sales tax law of Oklahoma. (1992 Code § 1-81)
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the tax
collector shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the tax collector in the collection of both the town sales tax and the
state sales tax. (1992 Code § 1-81; amd. 2005 Code)
2-2A-11: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1992 Code § 1-82)
2-2A-12: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in the town to collect
from the consumer or user, the full amount of the tax levied by this article,
or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable by law in the same
manner as other debts.
   C.   A vendor who wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
collect the full amount of the tax levied by this article, or wilfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with these provisions, or
remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly and by
whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied, or makes in any
form of advertising (verbally or otherwise) any statement which infers that the
vendor is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an
adjustment of prices, at a price including the tax or in any manner whatsoever,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense. (1992 Code § 1-83)
2-2A-13: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the state sales tax code; remittances
of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as may be
allowed by said code for collection of state sales tax. (1992 Code § 1-84)
2-2A-14: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217, as amended, is
hereby adopted and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at
the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall
be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by
this article. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this article
shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit all claim
to any discount allowed under this article. (1992 Code § 1-85)
   B.   Waiver: The interest, penalty or any portion thereof, accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the town sales tax herein levied, may be
waived or remitted in the same manner provided for said waiver or remittance,
as applied in the administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 220. To accomplish the purposes of this section, the
applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. (1992 Code § 1-86)
2-2A-15: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment, in the same manner and procedure
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and, to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(1992 Code § 1-87)
2-2A-16: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due under this
article, shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine of not more than the limits established in
section
1-9-22 of this code. (1992 Code § 1-88)
2-2A-17: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, as
amended, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made
fully effective and applicable to administration of the town sales tax, as if
set forth herein in full. (1992 Code § 1-89)
2-2A-18: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the town, by their approval of these ordinances at the elections
hereinbefore noted, have authorized the town board of trustees, by ordinances
duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in
the method and manner of administration and enforcement of this article as may
be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness; provided, that the rate of
the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified
electors of the town, as provided by law. (1992 Code § 1-90)
2-2A-19: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of town ordinances. (1992 Code § 1-91)
ARTICLE B.  USE TAX
SECTION:
2-2B-1: Short Title
2-2B-2: Definitions
2-2B-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-2B-4: Subsisting State Permits
2-2B-5: Purpose Of Revenues
2-2B-6: Tax Imposed; Subjects Of Taxation
2-2B-7: Exemptions From Tax
2-2B-8: Tax Due Date
2-2B-9: Tax Constitutes Debt
2-2B-10: Collection Of Tax
2-2B-11: Revoking Permits
2-2B-12: Remunerative Deductions
2-2B-13: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
2-2B-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
2-2B-15: Fraudulent Returns
2-2B-16: Records Confidential
2-2B-17: Provisions Cumulative
2-2B-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN OF CARNEGIE USE TAX
ORDINANCE. (2005 Code)
2-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall be defined as follows:
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the town or the official agency of the state
duly designated, according to law or contract authorized by law, to administer
the collection of the use tax herein levied.
TOWN: The town of Carnegie, Oklahoma.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (1992 Code § 1-114)
2-2B-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code 1
. (1992 Code § 1-115)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 1401 et seq.
2-2B-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional municipal permit for the same purpose. (1992 Code § 1-116)
2-2B-5: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the town, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the town board of
trustees for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended and
authorized. (1992 Code § 1-117)
2-2B-6: TAX IMPOSED; SUBJECTS OF TAXATION:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the town, tangible, personal property purchased
or brought into the town, an excise tax on the storage, use or otherwise
consuming within the town of such property at the rate of four percent (4%) of
the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the town, tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into the town. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the town and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside
Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the town, but which
is stored in the town pending shipment outside the town or which is temporarily
retained in the town for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
use tax authorized herein may deduct from such use tax any local or town sales
tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount
deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes
imposed by the town had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Ord. 210, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-1-2002)
2-2B-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   A.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by a nonresident individual visiting in the town for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the town.
   B.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used.
   C.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use tax
code and the town use tax ordinance, has been paid by the person using such
tangible, personal property in the town, whether such tax was levied under the
laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United States. If
any article of tangible, personal property has already been subjected to a tax
by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or use,
in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma use tax code and
the town use tax ordinance, the provisions of this article shall also apply to
it by a rate measured by the difference only between the rate provided by both
the Oklahoma use tax code and the town use tax ordinance, and the rate by which
the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed; provided, that no credit
shall be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that state
or municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma and the
town.
   D.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the town.
   E.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by an individual with intent to become a resident of this
town where such personal property is for such individual's personal use or
enjoyment.
   F.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used, or to be used, by commercial airlines or railroads.
   G.   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into the
town for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold. (1992 Code §
1-101; amd. 2005 Code)
2-2B-8: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state of Oklahoma. (1992 Code § 1-102)
2-2B-9: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty or interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as with any other debt. (1992 Code § 1-
103)
2-2B-10: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Retailer Or Vendor: Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without the state of Oklahoma, and making sales of
tangible, personal property from a place of business outside this state for use
in the town shall, at the time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied
by this article from the purchaser and give the purchaser a receipt therefor in
the manner and form prescribed by the Oklahoma tax commission, if said tax
commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor
shall list with said tax commission the name and address of all his agents
operating in the town and location of any and all distribution or sales houses
or offices or other places of business in the town. (1992 Code § 1-104)
   B.   Place Of Business Not Maintained Within State Or Both Within And
Without State:
      1.   The Oklahoma tax commission may, at its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the use tax herein levied by any
retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business within this state but
who makes sales of tangible personal property for use in the town, and by the
out of state place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible,
personal property at such out of state place of business for use in the town.
      2.   Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to
collect such taxes, by said tax commission, in such manner and subject to such
regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall
be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the use tax upon all
tangible, personal property sold to his knowledge for use within the town.
      3.   Such authority and permit may be canceled when, at any time, said
tax commission considers that such use tax can more effectively be collected
from the person using such property in the town; provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within the town by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's
vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or
transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable town sales tax at the
point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under the
taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (1992 Code § 1-105)
2-2B-11: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, authorized to collect the use tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
tax commission, said tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided
for in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit,
if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor
is a corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after the notice
and hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code, or
any orders, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma tax commission. (1992 Code §
1-106)
2-2B-12: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS:
Returns and remittances of the use tax herein levied and collected shall be
made to the Oklahoma tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and
amount prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax
code; and remittances of use taxes collected hereunder shall be subject to the
same discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use
taxes. (1992 Code § 1-107)
2-2B-13: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in
cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the use tax levied by this
article; provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to
make and transmit the reports and remittances of use tax in the time and manner
required by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if
such delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or
vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this article.
(1992 Code § 1-108)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty, or any
portion thereof, accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the use tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220; and to accomplish
the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1992 Code § 109;
amd. 2005 Code)
2-2B-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the town use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227; and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(1992 Code § 1-110)
2-2B-15: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any use tax, or portion thereof, the offending taxpayer
shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed the limits established
in section
1-9-22 of this code. (1992 Code § 1-111)
2-2B-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the town use tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205,
and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to administration of the town use tax, as if herein
set forth in full. (1992 Code § 1-112)
2-2B-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of town ordinances. (1992 Code § 1-113)
ARTICLE C.  UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
2-2C-1: Tax Imposed
2-2C-2: Application Of Tax
2-2C-3: Term; Due Date; Disposition
2-2C-4: Failure To Pay Tax
2-2C-5: Lien For Tax
2-2C-1: TAX IMPOSED:
The town board of trustees, being vested with power so to do, does hereby levy
and assess an annual tax upon the gross receipts from residential and
commercial sales of power, light, heat, electricity, water or both natural and
liquefied petroleum gas in the town, in the amount of two percent (2%) of the
gross receipts from said residential and commercial sales. This tax shall be in
lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax levied by the
town. (1992 Code § 1-150)
2-2C-2: APPLICATION OF TAX:
The tax authorized to be levied under section
2-2C-1 of this article shall be levied at the time this article shall take
effect and shall apply to all persons, firms, associations or corporations
engaged in the business of furnishing power, light, heat, electricity, water or
both natural and liquefied petroleum gas in the town. It shall not apply to any
person, firm, association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from
the town, and said exception shall be so stated in said valid franchise. (1992
Code § 1-151)
2-2C-3: TERM; DUE DATE; DISPOSITION:
   A.   Term: This tax that is now levied under section
2-2C-1 of this article shall be levied for a term of not less than one year and
shall continue in effect until further amended or repealed.
   B.   Due Date; Disposition: Said tax shall be payable quarterly to the town
clerk and placed in the general fund of the town. (1992 Code § 1-152)
2-2C-4: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Should any person, firm or corporation fail or refuse to pay such tax when
levied, action may be taken against such person, firm or corporation for the
amount of such tax. All expenses for collection of the same, including
reasonable attorney fees, shall be paid by the party or parties that said
action is taken against. (1992 Code § 1-153)
2-2C-5: LIEN FOR TAX:
The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town, of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling power, light, heat, electricity, water or natural and
liquefied petroleum gas. (1992 Code § 1-154)
CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
SECTION:
2-3-1: Inspection Fee Imposed
2-3-2: Fee In Lieu Of Taxes
2-3-3: Failure To Pay Inspection Fee
2-3-1: INSPECTION FEE IMPOSED:
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon every
person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange or rendering
telephone service in the town, in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the
gross revenues for each current year, for exchange telephone transmission
service rendered wholly within the corporate limits of the town, to compensate
the town for the expenses incurred and services rendered incident to the
exercise of its police power, supervision, policy regulation and control during
construction and operation of lines and equipment of said telephone company in
the town. Said fee shall be due and payable on or before March 1 of each year
and shall be paid into, and expended from, the general fund of the town. (1992
Code § 1-140)
2-3-2: FEE IN LIEU OF TAXES:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this article by the
owner of the telephone exchange (or company rendering telephone service within
the limits of the town), the charge levied hereby shall be and continue to be
in lieu of all concessions, charges, excises, franchises, licenses, privileges
and permit fees, taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes; provided, that
it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate all existing arrangements
whereby the town is permitted to use any underground conduits, duct space or
pole contracts of said company. (1992 Code § 1-141)
2-3-3: FAILURE TO PAY INSPECTION FEE:
Should any person, firm or corporation fail or refuse to pay such fee when
levied, action may be taken against such person, firm or corporation for the
amount of such fees. All expenses for collection of the same, including
reasonable attorney fees, shall be paid by the party or parties that said
action is taken against. (1992 Code § 1-142)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
 
CHAPTER 1
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Shooting Galleries
3-1-2: Junkyards And Salvage Yards
3-1-3: Sales On Vacant Property
3-1-4: Short Weights And Measures Prohibited
3-1-5: Penalty
3-1-1: SHOOTING GALLERIES:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: Every shooting gallery constructed,
established, set up or operated hereafter, either permanently or temporarily,
within the corporate limits of the town, shall be constructed, established, set
up and operated in accordance with the standards, specifications and
requirements of 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 701 through 708, as amended, and
shall comply with all the requirements thereof.
   B.   Licensing Required: No shooting gallery shall be operated until any
licenses required by this code have been secured therefor. (1992 Code § 5-71)
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee for the license for the operation of a
shooting gallery shall be as set by the board of trustees. (2005 Code)
3-1-2: JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the terms "junkyard" or
"salvage yard" shall mean any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or
for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. Said terms shall
also include garbage dumps and sanitary landfills. (1992 Code § 5-73)
   B.   Licensing Required: No junkyard or salvage yard shall be operated until
any licenses required by this code have been secured therefor.
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee for the license for the operation of a
junkyard or salvage yard shall be as set by the board of trustees. (2005 Code)
   D.   Location: No junkyard or salvage yard shall be located nearer than
fifty feet (50') to any right of way or residential area.
   E.   Screening From View: All junkyards or salvage yards shall be screened
from view of any road or highway running adjacent thereto, by the construction
of a sightproof fence (with a minimum height of at least 8 feet), or such
material as may be approved by the town board of trustees, or by the planting
of appropriately sized shrubbery.
   F.   Operation To Create Public Nuisance Prohibited: No junkyard or salvage
yard shall be operated in such a manner as to cause the creation of a public
nuisance to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the surrounding
areas. (1992 Code § 5-73; amd. 2005 Code)
3-1-3: SALES ON VACANT PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, trade or
transfer any merchandise of any kind on or in any vacant property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of said property. (1992 Code § 5-70)
3-1-4: SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer for
sale, any food, fuel, clothing or any other commodity which does not weigh or
measure fully as much, according to standard weights or measures of the state
of Oklahoma, as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(1992 Code § 5-72)
3-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed
the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this code, and is subject to having any license obtained by such
person revoked. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Conviction shall also void any and all licenses and permits
issued under the provisions of this chapter, to the person, firm or corporation
in violation of said provisions. (1992 Code § 5-100)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Occupational Tax; License; Permits; Reporting
3-2-2: Wine, Beer And Mixed Beverage Sales For On Premises Consumption
3-2-3: Retail Spirits Stores And Retail Stores Selling Wine Or Beer For Off
Premises Consumption
3-2-1: OCCUPATIONAL TAX; LICENSE; PERMITS; REPORTING:
   A.   Fee Schedule: The fee schedule, hereinafter set forth, shall be levied
and collected by the Town Clerk, or the Clerk's representatives, for the
applicable license, fees, permits, or Occupational Tax levies on persons or
other legal entities engaging in the following businesses within the Town of
Carnegie prior to the issuance of any such license, permit or the conducting of
the business of serving alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Occupational Taxes: Occupational Taxes relating to the sale of
alcoholic beverages 1  are set forth as follows:
 
1. Retail spirits store, per year     $500.00
2. Mixed beverages, per year          500.00
3. On premises beer or wine, per year 500.00
4. Retail beer (per year)             300.00
5. Retail wine (per year)             500.00
 
   C.   Terms Of License: All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire
on January 1st of each year.
   D.   Annual Report To State: The Town Clerk shall transmit a report to the
Oklahoma ABLE Commission on June 30th of each year, showing the amount of money
collected and the number of Municipal Occupational Tax licenses issued under
this chapter. (Ord. 293, 6-13-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. Definition found in 37A OS § 1-103.
3-2-2: WINE, BEER AND MIXED BEVERAGE SALES FOR ON PREMISES CONSUMPTION:
   A.   Occupational Tax Levied: No person shall operate or maintain any
business serving mixed beverages or beer or wine without having previously paid
the Occupational Tax as provided in this chapter, has a valid license from the
State, meets all the requirements of this Code and obtained a license from the
Town Clerk.
   B.   Definitions: The following words and phrases when used in this chapter
shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this section, except when the context otherwise requires:
      MIXED BEVERAGES: An Occupational Tax permit for the sale of mixed
beverages as specifically provided by State law for the holder of a mixed
beverage license.
      ON PREMISES BEER AND WINE: An Occupational Tax permit for the retail sale
of beer containing more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) of alcohol by
weight and wine which means and includes any beverage containing more than one-
half (1/2) of one percent (1%) of alcohol by volume and not more than twenty
four percent (24%) alcohol by volume.
   C.   Hours Of Operation:
      1.   No establishment to which the mixed beverage or on premises beer and
wine Occupational Tax is applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of such
establishment shall sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any mixed
beverages, beer or wine on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   D.   Location: The location of an on premises consumption establishment is
specifically prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of a public school, or
any church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and
religious activities; provided, that if any such church or school shall be
established within three hundred feet (300') of any licensed retail premises
after such premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal
of such license so long as it has been in continuous force and effect. The
distance indicated in this subsection shall be measured from the nearest
property line of such church or school to the nearest public entrance door of
the premises of such on premises establishment, along the street right-of-way
line providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between
such points. For the purpose of determining measured distance, property
situated on the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be
considered as if it were located on the same side of the street with such
church or school. A license shall not be issued for a location on any block
where a school or church is located.
   E.   Employment:
      1.   No person shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years of age
in the selling of beer or wine or employ any person under twenty one (21) years
of age in the selling of spirits. Provided:
         a.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, public event, retail wine or
retail beer licensee may employ servers or sales clerks who are at least
eighteen (18) years of age, except persons under twenty one (21) years of age
may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas, and
         b.   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, public event, club licensee may
employ or hire musical bands who have musicians who are under eighteen (18)
years of age if each such musician is either accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian or has on their person, to be made available for inspection upon
demand by any employee of the ABLE Commission or law enforcement officer, a
written, notarized affidavit from the parent or legal guardian giving the
underage musician permission to perform in designated bar or lounge areas.
   F.   Restrictions On Business Operation: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating or maintaining a place of business where
an intoxicating beverage is sold for consumption on the premises, or for any
person in charge thereof, to:
      1.   Sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for, or otherwise dispense
to, any person under twenty one (21) years of age;
      2.   Permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to loiter or
remain in or around the designated bar or lounge areas of such place of
business;
      3.   Employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age to work in such
a place, except where said place is an eating place where the service of such
beverages is incidental to the main business of serving food;
      4.   Sell, deliver or knowingly furnish an intoxicating beverage to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient;
      5.   Permit therein gambling, betting or operation of a lottery, except
as authorized by State law or by compact with Federally recognized Indian
tribe;
      6.   Permit disorderly conduct, loud or disturbing language or any other
violation of State law or of this Code; or
      7.   Permit an intoxicated person to remain in or around a place of
business where an intoxicating beverage is dispensed.
   G.   Mixed Beverage Or Beer And Wine Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.   A mixed beverage or beer and wine certificate of compliance, on
forms furnished by the Town, shall be completed by every applicant for an
original license pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
      2.   This certificate shall be reviewed and approved by the following
Town departments.
      3.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all Municipal Zoning Ordinances, verified by the Town Clerk or his/her
designee.
      4.   The applicant's proposed site and structure must comply with all
Building Codes as required by this Code, verified by the Code inspector or his
designee.
      5.   The applicant's proposed site, structure, and location must comply
with all Fire Code requirements required by this Code verified by the Fire
Chief or his designee.
      6.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all provisions regarding food service requirements as required by the Caddo
County Health Department inspector or his designee. (Ord. 293, 6-13-2019)
3-2-3: RETAIL SPIRITS STORES AND RETAIL STORES SELLING WINE OR BEER FOR OFF
PREMISES CONSUMPTION:
   A.   Occupational Tax Levied: No person shall operate, manage or work in any
retail establishment that sells, for off premises consumption only, any type of
alcoholic beverage, as that term is found in 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
103 without having previously obtained an Occupational Tax permit for that
store as provided in this chapter, has a valid license from the State, meets
all the requirements of this Code and obtained a license from the Town Clerk.
   B.   Retail Spirits, Retail Beer And Retail Wine Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.   A retail spirits, retail beer and retail wine certificate of
compliance, on forms furnished by the Town, shall be completed by every
applicant for an original license pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act.
      2.   This certificate shall be reviewed and approved by the following
Town departments.
      3.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all Municipal Zoning Ordinances, verified by the Town Clerk or his/her
designee.
      4.   The applicant's proposed site and structure must comply with all
Building Codes as required by this Code, verified by Code inspector or his
designee.
      5.   The applicant's proposed site, structure, and location must comply
with all Fire Code requirements required by this Code, verified by the Fire
Chief or his designee.
   C.   Location: The location of a retail spirits store or retail wine or beer
store is specifically prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of a public
school, or any church property primarily and regularly used for worship
services and religious activities; provided, that if any such church or school
shall be established within three hundred feet (300') of any licensed retail
premises after such premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the
renewal of such license so long as it has been in continuous force and effect.
The distance indicated in this subsection shall be measured from the nearest
property line of such church or school to the nearest public entrance door of
the premises of such licensed retail premises, along the street right-of-way
line providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between
such points. For the purpose of determining measured distance, property
situated on the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be
considered as if it were located on the same side of the street with such
church or school. A license shall not be issued for a location on any block
where a school or church is located.
   D.   Separate Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or
maintain, or to assist in the operation or maintenance of, any retail package
store when the premises are not separated from the premises on which any other
goods, wares or merchandise not allowed pursuant to State law and which shall
not comprise more than twenty percent (20%) of monthly sales are sold or
services are rendered, by nontransparent walls (which may be broken by a
passageway to which the public is not admitted). It shall be unlawful for any
person to take any alcoholic beverage from such store through said passageway
to which the public is not admitted for the purpose of selling, reselling or
delivering in connection with the sale of said alcoholic beverages.
   E.   Deliveries: No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages shall sell or
deliver to any retail spirits store any alcoholic beverages on Sundays, New
Year's Day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day.
   F.   Employment: No person shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years
of age in the selling of beer or wine or employ any person under twenty one
(21) years of age in the selling of spirits.
   G.   Hours For Selling Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Retail Spirits Stores: No person shall open or operate a retail
spirits store except between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight. Further, no person shall open or operate a retail
spirits store at any time on the following days.
         a.   Sunday;
         b.   Thanksgiving Day; or
         c.   Christmas.
      2.   Retail Beer Or Retail Wine Stores: A retail wine or retail beer
establishment may offer wine or beer for retail sale on Monday through Sunday
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day.
   H.   Conditions Of Sale: Retail package stores may sell alcoholic beverages:
      1.   Only in retail containers in the original package for consumption
off the premises.
   I.   Offenses: It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a
retail package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to:
      1.   Knowingly sell, deliver or furnish any alcoholic beverages to any
person under twenty one (21) years of age, an intoxicated person or any person
who has been adjudged insane or mentally deficient.
      2.   Employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age in the selling
or handling of alcoholic beverages.
      3.   Permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to enter into,
remain within or loiter about a licensed premises; or
      4.   Permit any person to open a retail container or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store. (Ord. 293, 6-13-2019)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required; Exclusions
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: License Fees
3-3-5: Hours Of Solicitation; Transfer And Exhibition Of License
3-3-6: Revocation Of License
3-3-7: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
ITINERANT OCCUPATION: Those occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations
having no permanent warehouse, building, structure, residence or place of
business within the town, at which a permanent business is carried on
throughout the year or usual production season in good faith (and not for the
purpose of evading the provisions of this chapter), and shall include
occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations housed in temporary stands or
quarters (including permanent quarters occupied pursuant to any temporary
arrangement), or carried on by means of house to house solicitation or upon the
streets and sidewalks of the town; provided, however, that no occupation, trade
or business engaged in by a charitable, educational or religious organization,
association or club, having a membership duly enrolled in accordance with the
rules, regulations and bylaws of said organization, association or club and the
majority of said members being residents of the town, or of Caddo County,
Oklahoma, shall be considered an "itinerant occupation, trade, business or
solicitation".
PEDDLER: Shall include the words "hawker" and "huckster" and shall mean any
person who travels by foot or by any type of conveyance from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares or merchandise of whatsoever nature, offering and
exposing the same for sale, or who does not travel from place to place, and
shall sell or offer the same for sale from any vehicle or conveyance or on any
public street or thoroughfare.
PERSON: Any individual, and shall not extend and be applied to firms,
corporations or any other organizations.
SOLICITOR AND CANVASSER: A person who travels by foot or by any type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders from the same for goods, wares, merchandise
or personal property of whatsoever nature for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future. (1992 Code § 5-1)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   License Required; Payment Of Fee:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
peddler, solicitor, canvasser or any other itinerant occupation within the
corporate limits of the town without first obtaining a license therefor, as
provided in this chapter, and paying the prescribed fees.
      2.   The fee shall be paid to the town clerk when the application is
filed and shall not be returnable under any circumstances. The town board of
trustees, from time to time, may change such fee by ordinance, to an amount not
to exceed the reasonable costs of licensing and enforcement under this chapter.
   B.   Exclusions: The following persons are hereby specifically excluded from
the application of the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Persons engaged in selling personal property at wholesale to dealers
in such property.
      2.   Merchants growing their own local produce, and having regular places
of business in the Town, and their employees, in taking orders at the houses of
their customers for goods held in stock at said places of business, and in
delivering the goods so ordered. Such exclusion shall not apply to a person
who, personally or for another person, firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure, tent, hotel room, lodging house,
apartment, shop or any other place within the Town, for the purpose of
exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
      3.   Local producers, within Caddo, Kiowa and Washita Counties, who offer
their produce for sale within the corporate limits of the Town of Carnegie.
(1992 Code § 5-2; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Filing With Clerk: Applicants for a license hereunder shall file, with
the Town Clerk, in duplicate, a sworn application in writing, on a form to be
furnished by the Town Clerk.
   B.   Required Information: The application shall give the following
information:
      1.   Full name, birth date and social security number of each individual
applicant;
      2.   Address, both legal and local;
      3.   Nature of business and kinds of goods to be sold, and if the
applicant is a farmer or truck gardener, whether said goods are produced or
personally owned, cultivated and controlled;
      4.   If employed by another, the name and address of the applicant's
employer, together with a brief description of credentials showing the exact
relationship;
      5.   Length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      6.   Description and license number of any vehicle to be used; and
      7.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
a felony, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor.
   C.   Collection Of Sales Taxes: Each individual applicant for a license
shall provide written proof that the applicant will collect and remit State and
local Sales Taxes to the Town, if required by State law and Town ordinance.
(1992 Code § 5-3)
3-3-4: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fee Established: A fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) per day; fifty
dollars ($50.00) for a two (2) day weekend; one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
seven (7) consecutive days; or two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for one year
shall be paid to the Town Clerk at the time of application. (Ord. 277, 5-14-
2015)
   B.   Revocation: Revocation of a license shall not be grounds for returning
the license fee to the applicant. (Ord. 209, 7-15-2000; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3-5: HOURS OF SOLICITATION; TRANSFER AND EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours: No solicitation shall be conducted between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. each day, because of the need
for public security and protection; provided, however, that solicitations may
be made where the person solicited has agreed by previously arranged
appointment for a time other than during the prescribed hours.
   B.   Use Of Badge: No license or badge issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be used or worn at any time by any person other than the person
to whom it was issued.
   C.   Exhibition Of License: Peddlers, solicitors, canvassers and other
itinerant occupations are required to exhibit and display their licenses or
authorized evidence thereof at all times whenever they are engaged in peddling,
canvassing or soliciting. (1992 Code § 5-6)
3-3-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Causes For Revocation: Licenses issued under the provisions of this
chapter may be revoked by the town clerk after notice has been served on the
applicant for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
carrying on business as a solicitor or canvasser;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any felony involving moral turpitude; or
      5.   Conducting the business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(1992 Code § 5-5)
   B.   Notice Of Revocation; Appeal: Notice of revocation of a license shall
be in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time
and place for a hearing where the decision to revoke may be appealed to the
town board of trustees. (1992 Code § 5-5; amd. 2005 Code)
3-3-7: PENALTY:
See section
3-1-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CHILDCARE CENTERS 1
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Permit Required; Fees; Term
3-4-3: Application For Permit; Review
3-4-4: Attendance At State Sponsored Workshops
3-4-5: Standards Required; Suspension Of State License
3-4-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 10 OS § 401 et seq.
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words not listed in this section shall be defined according to appropriate
state law 1 . As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CHILD OR MINOR: Any person who has not attained the age of eighteen (18).
CHILDCARE CENTER: A facility which provides care and supervision for children
and which operates for more than thirty (30) hours per week. The term shall not
include informal arrangements which parents make independently with neighbors,
friends, and others, or with caretakers in the child's own home.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: Any public or private childcare residential facility, child
placement agency, foster family home, group home, childcare center, part day
childcare program, family childcare home, or large family childcare home
providing either full time or part time care for children away from their own
homes.
FAMILY CHILDCARE HOME: A family home which provides care and supervision for
seven (7) or fewer children for part of the twenty four (24) hour day. This
definition does not include informal arrangements which parents make
independently with neighbors, friends, and others, or with caretakers in the
child's own home. (1992 Code § 5-30; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 10 OS § 402.
3-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES; TERM:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall conduct, engage in, or operate in any
manner a childcare center within the town without having first obtained a
permit as provided for in this chapter. A separate permit shall be required for
each location at which a childcare center shall be operated. (1992 Code § 5-31)
   B.   Permit Fees: The permit fees shall be as set by the town board of
trustees. (1992 Code § 5-31; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Term Of Permit; Renewals: Permits shall be issued for periods of one
year and are subject to review and termination by the office of the town clerk.
Such permits shall expire on January 1 of each year. Application for renewal of
such permits shall be made to the town clerk. (1992 Code § 5-34; amd. 2005
Code)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REVIEW:
   A.   Required Information: An applicant for a permit for a childcare center
shall furnish to the town clerk the following information:
      1.   Full name and address of the applicant;
      2.   Location of the proposed childcare center operation; and (1992 Code
§ 5-32)
      3.   An affidavit from the applicant with the licensing requirements and
guidelines for childcare centers established by the state and possession of a
valid state license issued by the department of human services or approval of
such license by the local licensing services (until said guidelines are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter). (1992 Code § 5-32; amd.
2005 Code)
   B.   Time Limit: The application shall be received at least ten (10) days
prior to the final date of application approval. (1992 Code § 5-32)
   C.   Review Of Application: The office of the town clerk shall review all
applications for childcare center permits. (1992 Code § 5-33)
3-4-4: ATTENDANCE AT STATE SPONSORED WORKSHOPS:
Each childcare center shall send at least one representative to attend at least
one-half (1/2) of the number of childcare workshops conducted in the area,
sponsored by the state department of human services. Failure to do so shall be
grounds for revocation of the town permit. At least one representative from
each childcare center shall attend a Red Cross first aid workshop at least once
a year. (1992 Code § 5-36; amd. 2005 Code)
3-4-5: STANDARDS REQUIRED; SUSPENSION OF STATE LICENSE:
   A.   Compliance With State Standards: No childcare center shall be operated
within the town unless a valid state license issued by the department of human
services, and all standards for childcare centers, as established by the state,
are complied with. (1992 Code § 5-35; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Procedure Upon Revocation Of State License: Upon suspension or
revocation of the license issued by the state, it is understood that the permit
issued by the town shall be immediately revoked until such time as state
licensing is renewed, including further review by the office of the town clerk
to reissue the town permit. (1992 Code § 5-35)
3-4-6: PENALTY:
See section
3-1-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RECREATION CENTERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Recreation Center Defined
3-5-2: Licensing Requirements
3-5-3: Slot Machines And Punchboards Prohibited
3-5-4: Operation Regulations
3-5-5: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-5-6: Penalty
3-5-1: RECREATION CENTER DEFINED:
For purposes of this chapter, a "recreation center" means any place, business
or premises which maintains one or more pool table, snooker table or billiard
table or one or more electronic or video game, pinball machine, table game or
other similar device or service; provided, that the following shall not be
considered recreation centers:
   A.   Private homes;
   B.   Duly licensed clubs dispensing alcoholic beverages for consumption on
premises, taverns, bars or dance halls;
   C.   Churches and church recreation or activity centers; or
   D.   Businesses where tables, games, machines or devices are maintained
occupying floor space equivalent to less than five percent (5%) of the maximum
occupancy of the business, as established by the building code of the town.
(1992 Code § 5-50)
3-5-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or
maintain a recreation center without a valid annual license therefor issued by
the town clerk. (1992 Code § 5-51)
   B.   Application; Term; Fee:
      1.   Application for an annual license shall be made on forms provided by
the office of the town clerk. (1992 Code § 5-52)
      2.   Licenses shall be issued on an annual basis and shall expire on
January 1 of the year for which they are issued.
      3.   The annual fee for the license for the operation of a recreation
center shall be as set by the board of trustees, payable upon the issuance of
the annual license. (1992 Code § 5-52; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Display Of License: Holders of recreation center licenses shall
conspicuously display such licenses on the premises of the licensed recreation
center.
   D.   Contents Of Application: The application for an annual license to
operate a recreation center shall contain the following:
      1.   The name of the applicant, who must be the owner of such business;
      2.   The location where it is intended to conduct such business and the
telephone number, if available at the time of application, of such business;
      3.   The age of the applicant;
      4.   The business and residence addresses of the applicant for the five
(5) years next preceding the date of the filing of the application, and current
residence telephone number;
      5.   The names and ages of any partners or other persons having a
financial interest in the recreation center for which the license application
is being made, the business and residence addresses of such partners and/or
persons for the five (5) years next preceding the date of the filing of the
application, and current residence telephone number for such partners or
persons;
      6.   The names, ages, current residence addresses and residence telephone
numbers of any managers or operators of such recreation center, if other than
the applicant, and the names, ages, current residence addresses and residence
telephone numbers of any persons employed who will have supervisory control
over the premises of the recreation center;
      7.   The State of Oklahoma Sales Tax permit number under which the
business is to be operated; and
      8.   Whether anyone on the premises has or holds a United States Internal
Revenue license or special liquor dealer's license.
   E.   Verification By Oath: The application shall be verified by oath of the
applicant. (1992 Code § 5-52)
3-5-3: SLOT MACHINES AND PUNCHBOARDS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to expose or operate in his
place of business within the Town, any punchboard or slot machine, which
contains any element of chance or, in the operation of which, chance plays any
material part. (1992 Code § 5-53)
3-5-4: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
It is an offense punishable as hereafter set forth for any recreation center
owner, manager, operator or person having supervisory control thereof, or
employee, to do, or permit to be done, any of the following:
   A.   Code Provisions: Violate any provision of this chapter or other
applicable provision of this Code.
   B.   State Law: Violate any of the statutes of the State of Oklahoma. (1992
Code § 5-54; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Hours: Operate, or be open for operation, during hours other than
specified as follows:
         Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday: 7:00 A.M. until 11:00 P.M.
         Friday: 7:00 A.M. until 1:00 A.M. the following Saturday morning
         Saturday: 7:00 A.M. until 1:00 A.M. the following Sunday morning
         Sunday: 1:00 P.M. until 11:00 P.M. (Ord. 272, 10-23-2014)
   D.   Alcoholic Beverages: Sell, barter, give away or knowingly permit the
consumption of alcoholic beverages in or about the premises of such recreation
center.
   E.   Intoxicated Persons: Knowingly permit any intoxicated person, whether
by alcohol, drugs, or other substances, to be in or about the premises.
   F.   School Children Restricted: Permit on the premises during a school day,
between the hours of eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and eleven thirty o'clock
(11:30) A.M., between twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) P.M. and three o'clock (3:
00) P.M. any person who is under the age of eighteen (18) years and who is
enrolled in either a public, private or parochial elementary, middle or
secondary school, except when accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or as
part of a recognized school sponsored activity.
   G.   Vacate Premises After Closing: Permit any person not an employee to be
or remain on the licensed premises, or in that portion of the premises wherein
the recreation activities take place, more than fifteen (15) minutes after
closing time. (1992 Code § 5-54; amd. 2005 Code)
3-5-5: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Police Action On Complaints; Hearing: All complaints concerning
recreation centers shall be submitted or forwarded to the Chief of Police for
investigation. If the Chief of Police finds that a violation of the provisions
of this chapter has been committed, he may file a complaint with the Town
Clerk, setting forth the alleged acts constituting the violation. Further, upon
completion of any complaint investigation, whether he files a complaint with
the Town Clerk or not, the Chief of Police shall submit a written, fully
detailed, investigation report to the Mayor. Upon the filing of such complaint
by the Chief of Police with the Town Clerk, said Clerk shall fix a date for
hearing of the complaint by the Town Board, and shall cause to be served upon
the licensee a copy of the complaint and notice of the time and place of the
hearing. Such complaint and notice of hearing shall be served not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the date set for hearing. The complaint and notice
of hearing may be served upon the owner, manager, operator, partner or person
shown on the license application as having supervisory control over the
premises of the recreation center or, if such persons may not be found, by
mailing the same by registered or certified mail addressed to such persons at
the licensed premises. At the hearing thereon, the complainant, the licensee or
any interested person may be present and present such evidence as may be
relevant and material. If at the conclusion of such hearing, the Town Board
finds that the complaint is justifiable, said Town Board shall suspend for not
more than fifteen (15) days or revoke the license issued hereunder. Upon
suspension or revocation, the licensee shall immediately cease operating as a
recreation center.
   B.   Waiting Time: Following the revocation of any recreation center
license, any application for a license as a recreation center upon the same
premises shall not be accepted by the Town Clerk for a period of thirty (30)
days following the revocation. (1992 Code § 5-55)
3-5-6: PENALTY:
See section
3-1-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Retail Marijuana Establishments
3-6-2: Licensing And Permit Requirements
3-6-3: Location Restrictions
3-6-4: Conditions Of Operation
3-6-5: Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Medical Use
3-6-6: Permit Inspections And Other Requirements
3-6-1: RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Retail marijuana establishments are defined as medical marijuana
dispensaries or any retail marijuana establishment licensed by the State of
Oklahoma which allows the entity to purchase medical marijuana from a
commercial grower or processor and sell medical marijuana to qualified patients
and caregivers. (Ord. 291, 1-10-2019)
3-6-2: LICENSING AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All operators of retail marijuana establishments are required to obtain
a retail marijuana establishment permit and a business license from the
Municipal Clerk.
   B.   The retail marijuana establishment permit fee shall be nine hundred
dollars ($900.00) per year, or as periodically modified by Town Board. The fee
shall be used to offset Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing,
inspection, administration and enforcement of retail marijuana establishments.
   C.   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside a Commercially zoned
area of the corporate limits of the Town of Carnegie, or within a restricted
area as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 291, 1-10-2019)
3-6-3: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within three hundred
feet (300') of any of the following locations:
      1.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational or
trade school, college or university;
      2.   A library or museum;
      3.   A public playground;
      4.   A child care center;
      5.   A place of worship or religious assembly;
      6.   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
      7.   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      8.   A Residentially Zoned District; or
      9.   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
   B.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
subsection A of this section is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located. (Ord. 291, 1-10-2019)
3-6-4: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   B.   The retail establishment must collect the applicable Sales Tax on all
sales.
   C.   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday. Operations shall
be closed on Sundays as well as Christmas, Thanksgiving, July 4th and New
Year's Day.
   D.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail marijuana establishment permit.
   E.   It is the intent of the Town of Carnegie that nothing in this chapter
be construed to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public
nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
State law. (Ord. 291, 1-10-2019)
3-6-5: MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE:
   A.   All owners of marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use are
required to obtain a permit from the Town Clerk.
   B.   Marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use permit fee shall
be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year, or other amount as set periodically
by the Town Board. The fee shall be used to offset Municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of
marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use.
   C.   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be
subject to provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a permit.
Failure to comply with the provisions as stated herein will result in
revocation of the permit.
   D.   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent at all times except when the residential facility is actively being
supervised in person by the permit holder.
   E.   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   F.   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right- of-way.
   G.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with Municipal Building and Fire Codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed one thousand watts (1,000 W)
per light. The use of gas products (CO2, butane, etc.) or CO2 and ozone
generators in the growing area is prohibited.
   H.   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes a
public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing marijuana
produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of
life and property.
   I.   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is grown
shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning cooking,
eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress and
egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will
impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or sanitation/
bathing.
   J.   If the residence is rented, consent of the property owner shall be
obtained prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be evidenced by
a signed and notarized statement from the property owner permitting the growth
of marijuana in the residence.
   K.   Cultivated marijuana must be used exclusively pursuant to a valid State
issued medical marijuana license. Any other or unapproved usage shall result in
revocation of the license. (Ord. 291, 1-10-2019)
3-6-6: PERMIT INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All permits outlined in this chapter will be subject to inspection of
the facilities by an authorized Municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   B.   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the Municipal inspector.
   C.   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   D.   The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
marijuana by a person possessing a valid State issued medical marijuana license
shall be treated as a public nuisance.
   E.   Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on all Town property
including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities. (Ord. 291, 1-10-2019)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
 
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Nuisance Unlawful
4-1-3: Town Board Determine And Define Nuisances
4-1-4: Nuisance Defined, Generally
4-1-5: Public Nuisances; Possible Remedies
4-1-6: Private Nuisances; Possible Remedies
4-1-7: Person Liable
4-1-8: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
4-1-9: Abatement Of Public Health Nuisances
4-1-10: Procedures Cumulative
4-1-11: Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, these words shall have the following meanings:
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: The town clerk or the nuisance abatement official
appointed by the town board of trustees.
BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding or locking of any or all exterior
openings, so as to prevent entry into a structure.
DILAPIDATED BUILDING: A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks the
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin, to such
an extent that said structure is a hazard to the health, safety and welfare of
the general public.
OWNER: The owner(s) of record, as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
Caddo County treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, waste or other matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded or abandoned.
WEEDS: A.   Shall include, but not be limited to, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity, which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit, safety and/or welfare of the public or
community, create a traffic or fire hazard, or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
      2.   Conceals or invites deposition or accumulation of refuse or trash,
regardless of the height of the vegetation;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a traffic or fire hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The word "weeds" shall not include tended crops or land zoned for
agricultural use, which crops are planted more than one hundred fifty feet
(150') from a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (1992 Code § 12-1)
4-1-2: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person (owner, lessee or other) to create or
maintain a nuisance, or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under said
person's control, within the corporate limits of the town. (1992 Code § 12-2)
4-1-3: TOWN BOARD DETERMINE AND DEFINE NUISANCES:
The town board of trustees has the power to determine what is and what shall
constitute a nuisance within the corporate limits of the town, and, for the
protection of the public health, parks and water supply, outside of the town's
corporate limits. (1992 Code § 12-3)
4-1-4: NUISANCE DEFINED, GENERALLY:
A "nuisance" consists of unlawfully doing an act, omitting to perform a duty or
any thing or condition which:
   A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, health or safety of others;
   B.   Offends public decency;
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for use, any lake, drainageway, stream, stream basin, public park,
street or other public property; or
   D.   In any way renders persons insecure in life or in the use of property.
(1992 Code § 12-4)
4-1-5: PUBLIC NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES:
   A.   Definition: A "public nuisance" is one which affects, at the same time,
an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
   B.   Possible Remedies: The possible remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution of information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; and
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured; or
         b.   By the town, in accordance with state law or ordinance.
   C.   Lapse Of Time: No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance
amounting to an actual obstruction of public right. (1992 Code § 12-5)
4-1-6: PRIVATE NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES:
   A.   Definition: Every "nuisance" not included in section
4-1-5 of this chapter is a private nuisance.
   B.   Possible Remedies: The possible remedies against a private nuisance
are:
      1.   Civil action; and
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured; or
         b.   By the town, in accordance with state law or ordinance. (1992
Code § 12-6)
4-1-7: PERSON LIABLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property created by a former owner is liable
therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it. (1992 Code §
12-7)
4-1-8: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Town Board Authority To Abate: Whenever it is practical to do so, the
town board of trustees has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance,
after notice to the owner and opportunity to be heard, if this can be done.
   B.   Nuisances Constituting Immediate Danger:
      1.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or the public generally.
      2.   It is recognized that, in such circumstances, the mayor (or a
representative) may be justified or required to take immediate and proper
action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger,
until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   C.   Submission Of Statement Of Nuisance Condition: The fire chief, the
chief of police, the town attorney, the health official, any trustee, any
resident of the town, or any other officer subordinate to the town board of
trustees, may submit to said town board, a statement as to the existence of a
nuisance as defined by state law or the ordinances of the town, and a request
or recommendation that it be abated.
   D.   Board Determination; Hearing; Notice:
      1.   The town board of trustees shall determine whether or not the
alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact, and before proceeding to have the
nuisance abated, said town board shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed
abatement to the owner of any property concerned and to any other person
alleged or deemed responsible for, or to be causing, the nuisance, and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given.
      2.   Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given
in writing by mail or by service (by a police officer), if their names and
addresses are known; if the names and addresses are not known, and the peace,
health, safety, morals or welfare of the person, persons or public adversely
affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of
the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
town or county.
   E.   Abatement By Town; Assessment Of Costs:
      1.   If the town board of trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact
exist, it shall direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for, or
causing, the nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare of the person, persons or public adversely affected
would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay,
or if the owner or other persons responsible for, or causing, the nuisance do
not abate it within the specified time, the town board of trustees shall direct
the mayor to abate the nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is
practical.
      2.   The town clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for, or causing, the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the town,
collectible as other debts of the town may be collected. (1992 Code § 12-20)
4-1-9: ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES:
   A.   Order Abatement:
      1.   The local or county health official shall have the authority to
order, in writing, the owner or occupant of any private premises in the town to
remove from such premises, within a reasonable length of time and at the
owner's expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to
the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease or any other condition adversely affecting the public health; failure
to do so shall constitute an offense.
      2.   Such order shall be served on the owner or occupant (or agent) of
the premises by the local or county health official, or a police officer. If
the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent,
if unknown, is without the state, the order may be served by posting a copy
thereof on the premises or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper
having a general circulation in the town or county.
   B.   Abatement By Town; Assessment Of Costs: If the order is not complied
with, the health official may cause the order to be executed, and the cost
thereof shall be certified to the town clerk. The cost of abating such nuisance
shall be added to the municipal utility bill of the owner or occupant (if a
user of any municipal utility service) and shall become due and payable and be
subject to the same regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the
utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant is not a user of any municipal
utility service, such costs, after certification to the town clerk, may be
collected in any manner in which any other debt due the town may be collected.
(1992 Code § 12-21)
4-1-10: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of state law and ordinances shall be cumulative one to the
other. The town board of trustees may elect to follow any such procedure which
is applicable in abating any particular nuisance. (1992 Code § 12-8)
4-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited, declared to be unlawful thereby or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure to
be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, who violates any legal order or
regulation made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any nuisance as
defined in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding the limits established in
section
1-9-22 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (1992 Code § 12-50)
ARTICLE A.  UNSAFE AND DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-1A-2: Abatement Procedure; Hearing; Costs
4-1A-3: Abatement As Nuisance
4-1A-4: Boarding And Securing Building
4-1A-5: Right To Stop Construction
4-1A-6: Penalty
4-1A-1: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
When, in the opinion of the local or county health official or any town
official, any building, wall or other structure upon, adjoining or near any
street, avenue, alley or public ground within the town becomes dangerous,
insecure or liable to collapse from inherent structural weakness or decay, or
which, from fire damage or other causes, becomes a menace to life or property,
the same may be declared to be a nuisance. (1992 Code § 12-22; amd. 2005 Code)
4-1A-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; HEARING; COSTS:
   A.   Report Nuisance Condition To Town Board: Any such building shall be
reported by any town official to the town board of trustees, together with the
lot and block number, the owner (or agent) and a description of the condition.
   B.   Notice To Property Owner And Mortgage Holder:
      1.   Upon receipt of such report, the town board of trustees shall
consider whether or not to declare such building or structure to be a nuisance
and serve fifteen (15) days' legal written notice on the owner (or agent) to
wreck or remove the same, or provide an alternative proposal for restoration,
sale and restoration, or other appropriate method of encouraging productive re-
use of the structure.
      2.   Said notice shall be posted on the property to be affected, and
shall also be sent by certified mail, with return receipt requested, to the
owner, as shown on the county treasurer's records. Written notice shall also be
mailed to any mortgage holder, as shown by the county clerk's records. If
neither the property owner nor the mortgage holder can be located, notice may
be given by legal notice. Such notice may be published once, not less than ten
(10) days prior to any hearing or action by the town pursuant to the provisions
of this section. (1992 Code § 12-22; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Town Board Hearing: The town board of trustees may hear all objections
and evidence in relation thereto and, unless the owner can show good and
sufficient reason why the building should not be condemned, the original order
of said town board shall be executed, or any appropriate alternative solution
may be implemented.
   D.   Order To Remedy Condition: Pursuant to a finding that the condition of
the property constitutes a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be
benefitted by the removal of such conditions, the town board of trustees may
cause the dilapidated building to be torn down and removed, or implement an
alternative solution, and shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and
completion of the work.
   E.   Lien Claim By Town: The town clerk shall immediately file a notice of
lien with the county clerk describing the property, the findings of the town at
the hearing, and stating that the town claims a lien on said property for the
destruction and removal costs.
   F.   Right Of Entry, Town Officials: The agents of the town are granted the
right of entry on the property for the performance of the necessary duties as a
governmental function of the town, if the work is not performed by the property
owner within dates fixed by the town board of trustees.
   G.   Cost Determination; Issuance Of Statement:
      1.   The town board of trustees shall determine the actual cost of the
repair, restoration, dismantling or removal of dilapidated buildings and any
other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction with the removal of the
nuisance conditions, including the cost of notice and mailing.
      2.   The town clerk shall forward a statement of the actual cost
attributable to the work on the buildings and a demand for payment of such
costs, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the property owner.
In addition, a copy of said statement shall be mailed to any mortgage holder.
   H.   Work By Town; Private Contract:
      1.   If the town repairs, restores, dismantles or removes any dilapidated
building, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance and equipment required for the actual repairs,
restoration, dismantling or removal of the dilapidated building.
      2.   If work on the dilapidated building is done on a private contract
basis, the contract shall be awarded to the most responsible and most
responsive bidder.
   I.   Lien Continued Until Payment Of Costs:
      1.   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the town clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual cost of
the dismantling and removal of the building is not made within six (6) months
from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such property,
the town clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to
the county treasurer. Said costs shall be levied on the property and collected
by the county treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the
interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the notice
of the lien is filed with the county clerk.
      2.   Said lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all
other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property.
      3.   The lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid. At any time
prior to collection, the town may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the
amount owed and interest thereon.
      4.   Upon receiving payment, the town clerk shall forward to the county
treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
(1992 Code § 12-22)
4-1A-3: ABATEMENT AS NUISANCE:
Nothing in the provisions of this article shall prevent the town from abating a
dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police power to
protect the health, safety or welfare of the general public. (1992 Code § 12-
22)
4-1A-4: BOARDING AND SECURING BUILDING:
After a building has been declared dilapidated, and before the commencement of
the removal of the nuisance conditions on the dilapidated building, the town
board of trustees may authorize that such a building be boarded and secured.
(1992 Code § 12-22)
4-1A-5: RIGHT TO STOP CONSTRUCTION:
Any town official shall have the right to stop the construction of any building
or structure, or the alteration, repair or wrecking of the same, if the same is
being done in a careless or reckless manner, or in violation of the provisions
of this code. (1992 Code § 12-22)
4-1A-6: PENALTY:
See section
4-1-11 of this chapter for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
ARTICLE B.  CLEANING AND MOWING PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Allowing Trash And Weeds On Property
4-1B-2: Report Hazardous Conditions To Town
4-1B-3: Written Notice To Abate
4-1B-4: Consent Of Owner For Town Removal
4-1B-5: Abatement Of Conditions By Town; Exceptions
4-1B-6: Hearing; Presenting Information
4-1B-7: Work Done By Town Or Let By Contract
4-1B-8: Statement Of Costs
4-1B-9: Subsequent Accumulations; Summary Abatement
4-1B-10: Penalty
4-1B-1: ALLOWING TRASH AND WEEDS ON PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot, tract or parcel of land situated
wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the Town to allow trash or
weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises; and it shall be the duty
of such owner to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds. (1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-2: REPORT HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS TO TOWN:
Any officer or employee of the Town who discovers an accumulation of trash or
growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises within
the corporate limits of the Town shall report the condition to the
Administrative Officer (who shall be appointed by the Town Board) if, as a
result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to be:
   A.   Detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the public and the
community; or
   B.   A hazard to traffic; or
   C.   A fire hazard to property. (1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-3: WRITTEN NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Notice Of Findings To Owner: Upon receiving the report provided for in
section
4-1B-2 of this article, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any
reliable source, and upon determination that a nuisance or violation of this
Code exists, the Administrative Officer shall give written notice of the
finding and direct the owner or occupant to abate the condition within ten (10)
days. (1992 Code § 12-23)
   B.   Notice By Personal Service Or Certified Mail:
      1.   The written notice provided for in subsection A of this section
shall be by personal service or sent by certified mail, with return receipt
requested, to the owner of the property at the address shown by the current
year's tax rolls in the Office of the Treasurer of the county in which the
property is located. (Ord. 233, 9-15-2005)
      2.   If the return receipt shows that the property owner cannot be
located or that the owner cannot be served by certified mail, notice may be
given by publication as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, one
time, not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the Town.
      3.   If the Town Board of Trustees anticipates further abatement of any
nuisance in accordance with provisions of this article, the notice shall state
that:
         Any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
property occurring within six (6) months after the initial removal of trash or
the cutting or mowing of weeds or grass on the property pursuant to such notice
may be summarily abated by the Town Board of Trustees. Further, the costs of
such abatement shall be assessed against the owner, and a lien may be imposed
on such property to secure such payment. All such actions may be taken without
further notice to the property owner.
(1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-4: CONSENT OF OWNER FOR TOWN REMOVAL:
The owner of the property may give his written consent to the town authorizing
the removal of the nuisance. By providing written consent, the owner waives his
right to a hearing. (1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-5: ABATEMENT OF CONDITIONS BY TOWN; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Issuance Of Order To Remove: Upon a finding that a condition exists as
set out in section
4-1B-2 of this article, and that the property would be benefited by the removal
of such condition, and after at least ten (10) days from the date of receipt of
the notice by the owner or occupant or the date of publication, the
administrative officer shall order the property to be cleaned of trash, or
order trash or weeds to be cut, removed or destroyed, unless the owner:
      1.   Has cut, removed or destroyed the trash or weeds in accordance with
the notice; or
      2.   Has filed a written request for a hearing on the matter with the
town clerk within a ten (10) day period to appeal the administrative officer's
decision to the town board of trustees.
   B.   Waiver Of Right Of Hearing: If the owner or occupant has given written
consent authorizing the town to abate the trash or weeds, any right to a
hearing shall be considered waived, and the owner shall pay for the cost of the
work.
   C.   Town Board Action, Review: The town board may affirm, reverse or modify
the order of the administrative officer. The town board's review shall be
limited to a review of the findings of fact and order of the administrative
officer to determine if the provisions of this article have been complied with.
(1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-6: HEARING; PRESENTING INFORMATION:
At any hearing on the matter, the administrative officer may receive
information thereto, including anything which may be presented by the owner of
the premises, personally or by agent or attorney. The administrative officer
shall prepare a written findings of fact and order which will be placed in the
property files. (1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-7: WORK DONE BY TOWN OR LET BY CONTRACT:
The work ordered to be performed under this article may be done by the town or
it may be let by contract to the most responsible and most responsive bidder
for a period of not to exceed one year. Immediately following the cleaning or
mowing, the town clerk shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk, in
accordance with state law. (1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-8: STATEMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Preparation Of Statement; Issuance: Upon completion of the work ordered
to be performed under this article, the town shall prepare a statement,
itemizing each tract of property involved, as follows: labor, machinery rental
or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of notice, other costs and indirect
costs, along with a demand for payment of the total cost, and forward it by
certified mail, with return receipt requested, to:
      1.   The owner of the property at the address shown by the current tax
rolls in the office of the treasurer of the county in which the property lies;
or
      2.   The address given by the person giving written consent or requesting
the appeal, as provided for in subsection
4-1B-5B of this article.
   B.   Lien For Unpaid Costs: If the costs of the work performed under this
article are not paid within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing the
statement prescribed by subsection A of this section, the town clerk shall
forward a certified statement of the amount of the costs to the county
treasurer of the county in which the property upon which the work was done is
located, in order that the amount be levied upon the property and be collected
by the county treasurer in the manner prescribed by the laws of this state. The
lien is coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid. At
any time prior to collection, as provided in this article, the town may pursue
any civil remedy for collection of the amount owed and interest thereon. Upon
receiving payment, if any, the town clerk shall forward to the county treasurer
a notice of such payment, directing discharge of the lien. (1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-9: SUBSEQUENT ACCUMULATIONS; SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If the town board of trustees causes property within the town limits to be
cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the
procedures provided for in this article, any subsequent accumulations of trash
or excessive weed or grass growth on the property occurring within a twelve
(12) month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated
without further prior notice to the property owner. At the time of each such
summary abatement, the town shall notify the property owner of the abatement
and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may
request a hearing within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the notice.
The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in this article. Unless
otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be
determined and collected as provided for in this article; provided, however,
that this article shall not apply if the records of the county clerk show that
the property was transferred after notice was given pursuant to this article.
(1992 Code § 12-23)
4-1B-10: PENALTY:
See section
4-1-11 of this title for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
 
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Police Officers
5-1-4: Powers And Duties Of Chief And Officers
5-1-5: Compensation
5-1-6: Mutual Aid
5-1-7: Unclaimed Property
5-1-8: Racial Profiling Prohibited; Policy Adopted
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a police department for the town, the head of which
shall be the chief of police. (Ord. 186, 2-6-1992)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The chief of police shall be appointed by the town
board of trustees, with a term of office of two (2) years, running concurrent
with town board elections, or until such services are terminated by death,
resignation, removal by the town board of trustees or other legal manner.
   B.   Serve At Will Of Board; Removal: The chief of police shall serve at the
will and pleasure of the town board of trustees and may be removed for the good
of the service by a majority vote of the town board of trustees at a regular
meeting. (Ord. 186, 2-6-1992)
5-1-3: POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: One or more police officers may be appointed by the chief
of police, subject to approval and confirmation by the town board of trustees.
   B.   Serve At Will Of Board; Removal: Said police officers shall serve at
the will and pleasure of the town board of trustees, and may be removed for the
good of the service by a majority vote of the town board of trustees, at a
regular meeting. (Ord. 186, 2-6-1992)
5-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF AND OFFICERS:
   A.   Powers Generally: The chief of police and all police officers shall
possess the powers, and be subject to the liabilities possessed and conferred
by law upon sheriffs, in executing the orders of the town board of trustees, or
enforcing the provisions of this code. All police officers shall be considered
officers of the town.
   B.   Enforcement Duties; Serve Warrants: It shall be the duty of the chief
of police and/or all police officers to bring to justice all violators of town
ordinances and federal and state laws, and to turn such violators over to the
proper authorities. The chief of police shall serve all warrants, writs,
executions and other processes, properly directed and delivered.
   C.   Other Duties: The chief of police and each police officer shall perform
all other duties prescribed by law or ordinance. (1992 Code § 1-23)
5-1-5: COMPENSATION:
The chief of police and each police officer shall be paid such compensation as
the town board of trustees may prescribe by motion or resolution. (1992 Code §
1-23)
5-1-6: MUTUAL AID:
   A.   Authority To Provide Assistance To Others: The chief of police, or a
designated representative, is authorized to direct that any regularly employed
police officers of the town may provide law enforcement assistance to another
municipality, county sheriff's office, the Oklahoma highway patrol, or any
other law enforcement agency upon a request of a police chief or his designee,
the county sheriff or his designee, an Oklahoma highway patrolman, or any other
law enforcement agency. While so serving, said police officers shall have the
same powers and duties as though employed by the requesting law enforcement
agency and when so acting, they shall be deemed to be acting in the scope of
employment of the requesting law enforcement agency; except that salaries,
insurance and other benefits shall be provided in their regular manner by this
town.
   B.   Authority To Request Assistance From Others: The police chief of the
town or his designee is also authorized to request law enforcement assistance
from the regular police department of any other municipality, county sheriff's
office, or other law enforcement agency on an as-need basis. In such cases, the
assisting police officers of the other municipalities shall have all of the
same powers and duties as fully as if employed by the town; however, salaries,
insurance and other benefits shall be provided in the regular manner by the
municipality in which the police officer is regularly employed.
   C.   Return To Regular Duties:
      1.   In all events, the police officers of the town shall return to their
regular duties when directed to do so by the Carnegie police chief or the
authorized representative of the requesting municipality, whichever direction
occurs first.
      2.   When the Carnegie police chief shall direct, the assisting police
officers of the other municipalities shall return to their own regularly
scheduled duties in their own municipalities, and those assisting police
officers shall cease to have the powers and duties of police officers regularly
employed by the town. (1992 Code § 1-23; amd. Res. 1994-1, 2-10-1994)
5-1-7: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Complete Record Required:
      1.   All personal property coming into the possession of any police
officer, which has been found, stolen or taken off the person, or out of the
possession of, any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a
criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto,
shall be delivered into the charge of the chief of police.
      2.   The chief of police shall make a permanent, written record of said
property, including the date and circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name
of the person from whom it was taken (or the place where if was found), the
subsequent disposal thereof, the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
   B.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Property:
      1.   Any personal property (other than animals) which remains unclaimed
and in the possession of the chief of police, or the ownership of which is not
satisfactorily established for a period of six (6) months, shall be sold and
the proceeds of the sale paid over to the town clerk, who shall issue a receipt
therefor and deposit the same to the credit of the general fund of the town,
except for such personal property as in the opinion of the mayor can be more
advantageously used by some department or office of the town government.
      2.   Ten (10) days before a sale of such unclaimed property, the chief of
police shall have posted in a conspicuous place in the town hall, notice of the
time, place and manner of such sale, including the general description of the
property to be sold. If, in the opinion of the mayor, all or any of the
personal property may be more advantageously used in any town department or
office, the mayor shall so instruct the chief of police in writing and said
police chief shall thereupon deliver the designated property to the department
or office of town government and make a permanent record of its disposition.
   C.   Property Found By Private Person:
      1.   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official
or employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if
not claimed or identified within six (6) months, shall, within ten (10)
additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to said
finder, and a record of such disposal made thereof.
      2.   If the finder does not request return of the property within such
additional ten (10) days, then the chief of police shall sell the property as
if it had been found by a public official or employee, or, on the instruction
of the mayor, deliver it to some municipal department for its use.
   D.   Recovery By Owner: If any property is sold as herein provided, and the
owner thereof takes and recovers possession of the same from the purchaser, the
amount paid therefor shall be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim
being submitted and approved by the town board of trustees.
   E.   Property Of Deceased Person: The personal property of a deceased person
shall be delivered only to the next of kin of such person or to the legally
appointed representative of the estate. If the personal property is claimed by
the legally appointed representative of the estate of the deceased, a certified
copy of the order of the county court appointing such person shall be deemed
sufficient authority to support the claim. If the personal property is claimed
by the next of kin, the claimant shall furnish an affidavit supporting
entitlement to possession of said property. The affidavit shall be deemed
sufficient authority to support the claim. If personal property of a deceased
person remains unclaimed for a period of six (6) months, it shall be disposed
of in the appropriate manner provided in this section. (1992 Code § 1-23; amd.
2005 Code)
5-1-8: RACIAL PROFILING PROHIBITED; POLICY ADOPTED:
The town board of trustees hereby adopts a detailed written policy, for use of
the police department, that prohibits racial profiling, and clearly defines the
elements constituting racial profiling, as submitted by the Oklahoma human
rights commission, and in compliance with 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 34.3.
Said policy is set out in a resolution which takes effect October 10, 2000. One
copy of said policy shall be and remain on file in the office of the town
clerk. (2005 Code)
ARTICLE A.  RESERVE POLICE ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Organization Created
5-1A-2: Officer In Charge; Assistants
5-1A-3: Police Powers
5-1A-4: Serve On Part Time Basis
5-1A-5: Compliance With Statutory Requirements
5-1A-6: Oklahoma Reserve Law Officers Association, Membership
5-1A-7: Qualifications; Appointment
5-1A-8: Attendance At Meetings And Drills
5-1A-9: Removal Of Members, Causes
5-1A-10: Dissolution Of Organization
5-1A-1: ORGANIZATION CREATED:
There is hereby created for the Town a reserve police organization. (Ord. 199,
3-7-1996)
5-1A-2: OFFICER IN CHARGE; ASSISTANTS:
   A.   Appointment Of Officer In Charge: The Chief of Police may appoint a
regular full time police officer or other person to be the officer in charge of
the reserve officers. This appointment may be changed or terminated at the
discretion of the Chief of Police.
   B.   Appointment Of Assistants: The officer in charge of the police reserves
may appoint and/or remove assistants within the reserves to assist in the
operation of the police reserves.
   C.   Duties:
      1.   The officer in charge or an assistant will handle all work
schedules, training classes or other special assignments of reserve officers.
      2.   "Probationary reserve officers", defined as lacking their
certification and still within the probationary period of one year, shall have
limited duties and powers. They shall not be allowed to function as single
officers, but must always be in the presence or control of a full time officer.
(Ord. 199, 3-7-1996)
5-1A-3: POLICE POWERS:
"Reserve officers", defined as having their certification and not within a
probationary period, shall be recognized as having the same police powers as a
full time officer. At the discretion of the Chief of Police, they may be
allowed to function as single officers in enforcing the laws and this Code.
(Ord. 199, 3-7-1996)
5-1A-4: SERVE ON PART TIME BASIS:
A reserve police officer shall serve on a part time basis and shall perform all
duties only while on authorized duty. (Ord. 199, 3-7-1996)
5-1A-5: COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:
Such reserve officers must meet the minimum requirements of 70 Oklahoma
Statutes section 3311. (Ord. 199, 3-7-1996)
5-1A-6: OKLAHOMA RESERVE LAW OFFICERS ASSOCIATION, MEMBERSHIP:
Reserve police officers are authorized to join the Oklahoma Reserve Law
Officers Association and establish a local chapter of this organization. (Ord.
199, 3-7-1996)
5-1A-7: QUALIFICATIONS; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Health: Any applicant for the position of reserve officer must be of
reasonable health and character. (Ord. 278, 5-14-2015)
   B.   Appointment: Reserve police officers shall be appointed by the Chief of
Police, with confirmation required from the Town Board of Trustees. After such
approval, all new members shall be on probation for a period of one year. (Ord.
199, 3-7-1996; amd. 2005 Code)
5-1A-8: ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS AND DRILLS:
   A.   Meetings, Drills, Schools: There shall be meetings and/or drills to be
held at the discretion of the officer in charge of the reserve officers. All
reserves shall be present at all regular meetings. Any member who misses two
(2) consecutive meetings without being excused by the officer in charge will be
automatically dropped from the rolls. A member who misses twenty five percent
(25%) of the meetings, drills, or schools in a one year period running from
January 1 to December 31 will be handled the same as hereinabove stated.
   B.   Training Classes: Any member who refuses to attend training classes
will be dropped without appeal. (Ord. 199, 3-7-1996; amd. 2005 Code)
5-1A-9: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS, CAUSES:
Any member of the police reserves will be dropped from the rolls for any of the
following:
   A.   Conduct unbecoming a police officer.
   B.   Any act of insubordination.
   C.   Neglect of duty.
   D.   Any violation of the rules and regulations of the town police
department.
   E.   Conviction of a felony. (Ord. 199, 3-7-1996)
5-1A-10: DISSOLUTION OF ORGANIZATION:
The reserve organization can be dissolved only by authority of the town board
of trustees, acting by ordinance. (Ord. 199, 3-7-1996)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Department Established; Composition
5-2-2: Fire Chief
5-2-3: Assistant Fire Chief; Other Officers
5-2-4: New Members; Probation
5-2-5: Firefighters Pension And Retirement System, Participation
5-2-6: Department Bylaws
5-2-7: Ordinances, Amendments To State Insurance Commissioner
5-2-8: Fire Prevention Code Enforcement; Variances
5-2-9: Rural Fire Protection
5-2-10: Charges For Fire Calls Outside Town
5-2-11: Intergovernmental Cooperation Authorized
5-2-12: Penalty
5-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
   A.   Department Established: There is hereby established for the Town, a
Volunteer Fire Department under the provisions of the Oklahoma Volunteer
Firemen's Act 1 .
   B.   Composition:
      1.   The Volunteer Fire Department shall consist of not less than twelve
(12) and not more than twenty (20) members.
      2.   The department shall not employ more than two (2) full time,
salaried firefighters.
      3.   Members of the Fire Department may continue as members of the
Volunteer Fire Department established under this chapter without probation, but
shall be subject to the bylaws authorized under this chapter. (1992 Code § 7-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 29-201 et seq.
5-2-2: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment, Term: There is hereby created the Office of Chief of the
Fire Department who shall be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees from those
nominated by the members of the Volunteer Fire Department who shall serve until
all services are terminated by death, resignation, removal by the Town Board of
Trustees or other legal manner. (Ord. 297, 6-13-2019)
   B.   Duties: Duties of the Fire Chief shall include:
      1.   The Fire Chief shall have supervision and control of the Fire
Department, subject to the State law, the provisions of this chapter, other
ordinances of the Town and the Town Board of Trustees. The Fire Chief shall
diligently perform the duties imposed upon him by law and ordinance.
      2.   The Fire Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition
and efficient operation of the Fire Department and the training of members, and
may assign duties to other members of said department.
      3.   The Fire Chief may inspect, or cause to be inspected by members of
the department, the fire hydrants and water supply sources of the Town at least
twice each year.
      4.   The Fire Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on
fire prevention and fire protection, and shall make use of it to the best
advantage of all members.
      5.   The Fire Chief shall attend all fires and direct and have complete
charge of the officers and members of the Fire Department in the performance of
their duties.
      6.   The Fire Chief shall ensure that the Town Board of Trustees and the
Town's citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the community and on the
activities of the Fire Department.
      7.   The Fire Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause and, in the case of incendiarism, shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case.
      8.   The fire chief shall see that complete records are kept of all
fires, inspections, apparatus, equipment, personnel and other information about
the work of the fire department.
      9.   The fire chief shall file the appropriate fire loss reporting forms
with the office of the state fire marshal, as required by current state law.
(1992 Code § 1-27; amd. 2005 Code)
5-2-3: ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF; OTHER OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment Of Assistant Chief; General Duties: The assistant chief of
the fire department shall be appointed by the town board of trustees. In the
absence of the fire chief, the assistant fire chief shall command the fire
department and be held responsible therefor in all respects, with the full
powers and responsibilities of the fire chief.
   B.   Department Officers: The officers of the fire department shall be
selected upon their leadership ability and their knowledge of firefighting and
firefighting equipment.
   C.   Secretary-Treasurer: One member elected by the members of the fire
department shall be secretary-treasurer. The duties shall consist of calling
the roll at each meeting, keeping the minutes of each meeting and collecting
any monies due said department by the members. (1992 Code § 1-28)
5-2-4: NEW MEMBERS; PROBATION:
All new members shall be on probation for one year after their appointment to
the department (which year shall be counted toward retirement in accordance
with state law), and shall not become regular members of the department upon
completion of their probation period, until approval by a majority of the
regular members of the volunteer fire department, subject to the ratification
of the town board of trustees. (1992 Code § 7-1)
5-2-5: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM, PARTICIPATION:
The volunteer fire department of the town shall be subject to all of the
provisions of the Oklahoma state firefighters pension and retirement system
pension act 1 , all of the provisions of which are hereby accepted by the town
for the use and benefit of its volunteer fire department, which shall also be
subject to all of the obligations thereunder. (1992 Code § 1-125; amd. 2005
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 49-100.1 et seq.
5-2-6: DEPARTMENT BYLAWS:
The volunteer fire department shall adopt bylaws (a copy of which shall be
deposited with the town clerk), which shall include the following:
   A.   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   All volunteer firefighters are required to be present at all regular
meetings, call meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters.
   C.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month. (1992
Code § 7-1)
   D.   Any volunteer firefighter having two (2) unexcused absences in
succession or three (3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months,
will be expelled from the department rolls. (1992 Code § 7-1; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time
shall notify the fire chief in advance.
   F.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes will be
expelled from the rolls.
   G.   Any volunteer of the fire department shall be expelled from the rolls
by the town board of trustees, upon the recommendation of the fire chief, for
any of the following offenses: 1) conduct unbecoming a firefighter; 2)
insubordination; 3) neglect of duty; 4) violation of rules and regulations
governing the department; or 5) conviction of a felony. (1992 Code § 7-1)
5-2-7: ORDINANCES, AMENDMENTS TO STATE INSURANCE COMMISSIONER:
Copies of ordinances and any amendments relating to the volunteer fire
department of the town shall be submitted to the state insurance commissioner.
(1992 Code § 7-1)
5-2-8: FIRE PREVENTION CODE ENFORCEMENT; VARIANCES:
   A.   Enforcement Of Fire Prevention Code 1 : The fire prevention code
adopted by the town board of trustees shall be enforced by the volunteer fire
department, under the supervision of the fire chief. Members of said department
may be detailed as inspectors by the fire chief, if it is deemed necessary.
   B.   Power To Grant Variances: The chief of the volunteer fire department,
with the approval of the town board of trustees, shall have the power to grant
a variance to any of the provisions of the fire prevention code, upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee (or a duly authorized agent),
when there are practical difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of said
code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification,
when granted or allowed, and the decision of the fire chief thereon, shall be
entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant. (1992 Code § 7-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-1 of this code for adoption of fire prevention code.
5-2-9: RURAL FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Authority To Enter Into Agreements: The town is hereby authorized and
empowered to enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms,
private corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the state of
Oklahoma for fire protection outside the corporate limits of the town, and to
contract to provide fire protection jointly with other organizations and
municipal subdivisions of the state.
   B.   Payment For Services:
      1.   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation or private or nonprofit association, for outside aid
or mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide for the payment by said owner,
firm, private corporation, private or nonprofit association, or political
subdivision to the town for such fire apparatus and personnel.
      2.   All monies received from said calls shall go into the fund
designated by motion of the town board of trustees.
   C.   Distance Limitation:
      1.   The fire department of the town is hereby authorized and directed to
answer all outside calls within a distance of five (5) miles from the nearest
fire station, unless, in the opinion of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to do
so on account of another fire in the town, broken apparatus, impassable or
dangerous highways, or other physical conditions.
      2.   All other responses shall be at the direction of the fire chief,
assistant chief or mayor. (1992 Code § 7-10)
   D.   Serving In Regular Line Of Duty: All firefighters of the fire
department of the town attending or serving at fires, or doing fire prevention
work outside the corporate limits of the town, shall be considered as serving
in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were serving within the
corporate limits of the town, and said firefighters shall be entitled to all
the benefits of any firefighters pension and retirement fund in the same manner
as if the firefighting or fire prevention work were being done within the
corporate limits of the town. (1992 Code § 7-10; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Agents Of State: The fire department of the town answering any fire
alarm or call, or performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate
limits of the town shall be considered as an agent of the state of Oklahoma,
and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and the town shall not
be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission or negligence while
answering or returning from any fire or reported fire, or doing any fire
prevention work under and by virtue of subsection A, B, C or D of this section.
   F.   Right Of Way Of Equipment: All motorized equipment of the fire
department of the town shall have the right of way over all other commercial
and pleasure vehicles. (1992 Code § 7-10)
5-2-10: CHARGES FOR FIRE CALLS OUTSIDE TOWN:
   A.   Rates Imposed: The Town Board of Trustees shall charge the following
fees to persons or to property owners involved, for fire calls outside the
corporate boundaries of the Town. (Ord. 309, 8-13-2019)
      1.   Fire calls made within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the
Town shall cost a minimum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first hour,
or portion thereof, with an additional charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each additional hour or portion thereof.
      2.   Fire calls made outside five (5) miles from the corporate limits of
the Town shall cost a minimum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the first
hour, with an additional charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each additional
hour or portion thereof.
   B.   Mileage; Supplemental Billing Costs: Mileage and distances shall be
based on actual miles traveled. The Town shall also have the capacity to
prepare supplemental billing costs for use of special equipment or materials.
   C.   Fee For Damaged Equipment: The Town is also authorized to assess a fee
whenever fire protection equipment is damaged or lost in fighting a fire
involving hazardous materials. Said fee shall be established, on the basis of
actual damages or the original purchase price, by motion of the Town Board of
Trustees (following the damage or loss). (1992 Code § 7-11)
   D.   Arson; Assessment Of Charge:
      1.   In any event if a fire is suspected of being arson, the landowner or
resident shall not be charged a fee for the services of the Fire Department,
unless at a later time it is determined by a conviction in a court that said
landowner or resident is guilty of arson. (Ord. 259, 12-15-2011)
      2.   If a fire is determined to be arson and the individual responsible
for the act is convicted of the same, the Town is authorized to assess a charge
against said individual in the actual amount of damages to firefighting
equipment involved in fighting the fire, as determined by motion of the Town
Board of Trustees. Said charge may be assessed by the Town, whether the fire
occurred inside of, or without, the Carnegie corporate limits, and may be
collected in any and all ways normally employed by the Town for collection of
utility, facility and other debts owed the Town. (1992 Code § 7-11; amd. Ord.
259, 12-15-2011)
5-2-11: INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Authority To Assist Others Upon Request:
      1.   The Town, in an effort to improve the quality of fire protection
within the community, and to protect the health, welfare and safety of its
citizens, does hereby determine that any or all members of the Fire Department
of the Town are authorized to assist the Fire Departments of Binger, Eakly,
Gotebo or any Caddo or Kiowa Counties' rural Fire Departments in protecting
said areas, upon receipt of a valid request for assistance. For purposes of
this section, "request for assistance" shall mean a request for help in an
emergency situation, by the Mayor, Police Chief, Fire Chief, Dispatcher or
County representative of the above entities.
      2.   Upon receipt of this request for aid, any member of the Carnegie
Fire Department shall respond to said request for assistance.
   B.   Authority To Request Assistance From Others: In an attempt to increase
the effectiveness of fire protection within the corporate limits of the Town,
and to provide for the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of said
community, the Town does hereby authorize any or all Fire Department personnel
of the Towns of Binger, Eakly, Gotebo or of Caddo or Kiowa Counties, to respond
to a request for assistance by the Town of Carnegie, within said community.
Notification shall be given by the Mayor, Chief of Police, Fire Chief or the
Dispatcher of the Town, and the Fire Department Officers extending said aid
shall have full powers to act within the corporate limits of the Town while
under a request for assistance. (1992 Code § 7-22)
5-2-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
including the provisions of any code adopted by the Town, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed
the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1992 Code § 7-50)
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Civil Defense Director
5-3-3: Liability
5-3-4: Acceptance Of Federal, State Or Private Aid
5-3-5: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
CIVIL DEFENSE: The preparation for, and carrying out of, all emergency
functions, other than functions for which primary responsibility is assigned
elsewhere by federal, state or local law or ordinance, to protect the public
peace, health and safety and to preserve lives and property in the town during
an emergency resulting from enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or
from any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, storm or other
catastrophe in or near said community, and involving imminent or actual peril
to life and property. These functions include administration, organization,
planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare service, relief
service, police service, warden service, fire service, rescue service, medical
service, health service, transportation service, communications service, street
service, utilities service, general engineering service, plant protection
service, supply service, mutual aid, mobile support, evacuation and all other
functions necessary or incidental to the preparation for, and carrying out of,
the foregoing functions.
ENEMY CAUSED EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, anywhere within the United States and
involving imminent peril to lives and property in the town. Such emergency
shall be deemed to exist only when the mayor shall so declare by public
proclamation and such emergency shall be deemed to exist until the aforesaid
mayor shall declare its termination by public proclamation, or until the town
board of trustees shall declare its termination by resolution.
NATURAL EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, storm or other
catastrophe in or near the town, and involving imminent peril to lives and
property. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be terminated under
the same conditions as prescribed for an "enemy caused emergency". (1992 Code §
6-10; amd. 2005 Code)
5-3-2: CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: The position of civil defense director is hereby created,
to be appointed by the mayor, with the approval of the town board of trustees.
(1992 Code § 1-35)
   B.   Management Of Civil Defense Program: The civil defense director shall
be responsible for carrying out the civil defense program of the town.
   C.   Authority And Responsibility: The civil defense director shall have the
authority and responsibility to:
      1.   Form an organization to prepare and implement a civil defense
program;
      2.   Form committees to perfect such an organization;
      3.   Appoint the chairman of such committees; and
      4.   Cooperate with other civil defense agencies. (1992 Code § 1-35; amd.
2005 Code)
   D.   Reimbursement For Expenses: The civil defense director may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of official duties;
provided, that such expenses are at the direction of, and approved by, the town
board of trustees.
   E.   Enforcement Authority: In the event of an enemy caused emergency or
emergency resulting from natural causes, the civil defense director, after
authorization from the mayor, shall have the authority to enforce all
regulations relating to civil defense, for the purpose of protecting residents
of the town. (1992 Code § 1-35)
5-3-3: LIABILITY:
   A.   Neither the town, nor any officer or member of the civil defense
organization, shall be liable for personal injury or property damage sustained
by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer civil defense worker or member
of any agency engaged in civil defense activity prior to, or during, either an
enemy caused or a natural emergency.
   B.   Nor shall the town or any such officer or member be liable for the
death or injury of any persons, or damage to property, resulting from such
civil defense activity prior to, or during, either an enemy caused or a natural
emergency. (1992 Code § 6-11)
5-3-4: ACCEPTANCE OF FEDERAL, STATE OR PRIVATE AID:
Whenever the federal government, the state of Oklahoma, or any person, firm or
corporation shall offer to the town any services, equipment, supplies,
materials or funds by way of gift, grant or loan, for purposes of civil
defense, the mayor may accept such offer and may authorize the civil defense
director to receive the same, subject to the terms of the offer and the rules
and regulations, if any, of the agency making the offer. (1992 Code § 6-12)
5-3-5: PENALTY:
Any, person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1992 Code § 6-20)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Fireworks; Sale, Possession Or Discharge
5-4-2: Storage Of Explosives
5-4-3: Fire Extinguishers In Businesses
5-4-4: Penalty
5-4-1: FIREWORKS; SALE, POSSESSION OR DISCHARGE:
   A.   Possession And Discharge: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person, firm or corporation to possess, discharge, ignite or in any manner aid,
assist or abet in the discharging or igniting of any firecrackers of any size,
type or description, skyrockets, pistols, torpedoes, Roman candles, flash
salutes, flash crackers, balloons or other fireworks or substances designed and
intended for pyrotechnic display, or small display ground pieces, canes, cap
pistols, cannons or other appliances using caps containing chlorate or potash
mixture, within the corporate limits of the Town, except on July 4, between the
hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. (Ord. 243, 8-
16-2007)
   B.   Sale Of Fireworks; Permit Required: It shall be unlawful and an offense
for any person, firm or corporation to sell any fireworks, etc., (as listed in
subsection A of this section) within the corporate limits of the Town without
first having obtained a permit from the Town Clerk. Said permit shall be issued
under terms and fees established by motion of the Town Board of Trustees. (1992
Code § 7-20; amd. 2005 Code)
5-4-2: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Compliance With State Law:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, keep or have on their
premises or in their possession, any explosive materials of any kind or nature
without first having complied with the laws of the State of Oklahoma for the
purpose of selling, storing or keeping such articles.
      2.    Any person storing explosives for sale to the general public must
comply with the laws of the State of Oklahoma concerning the sale and storage
of said explosives.
   B.   Storage Near Dwelling Or School: It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or store any explosive on any premises which are occupied as a dwelling or
school. (1992 Code § 7-21)
5-4-3: FIRE EXTINGUISHERS IN BUSINESSES:
   A.   Required Equipment; Inspection:
      1.   Every person, firm or corporation, owning or operating a place of
business within the Town is hereby required to own, keep and maintain therein
such firefighting equipment (i.e., fire extinguishers) as the Fire Department
requires. (1992 Code § 7-23)
      2.   The equipment shall be inspected by the Fire Department or its
designee. (Ord. 298, 6-13-2019)
   B.   Maintenance And Recharging: Maintenance or recharging of such equipment
may be done by the Fire Department; provided, that a fee sufficient to cover
the cost of said service shall be paid by the owner to the Town. (1992 Code §
7-23)
5-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1992 Code § 7-50)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-5-1: State Statutes Adopted By Reference
5-5-2: Offense Defined
5-5-3: Violation; Penalty
5-5-4: Attempts To Commit Offense
5-5-5: Effect Of Intoxication
5-5-6: Aiding In Offense
5-5-7: Abandoned Refrigerators And Containers
5-5-1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Provisions of title 21 Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, which are applicable to
the town, are hereby adopted and incorporated in this chapter, as if set out at
length herein. (1992 Code § 13-5)
5-5-2: OFFENSE DEFINED:
An "offense" is hereby defined as the doing of any act or thing which, by this
chapter or any ordinance of the town, is prohibited, forbidden or declared to
be unlawful, or the failure or refusal to do any act or perform any duty which,
by any provision of this chapter or by any ordinance of the town, is commanded
or required to be done. (1992 Code § 13-1)
5-5-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, including articles A through D, shall be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed the limits
established in section
1-9-22 of this code. Each day's continuation of any such violation shall be a
separate offense. (1992 Code § 13-100)
5-5-4: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against this code, and in such
attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense, but fails, is
prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the offense itself.
(1992 Code § 13-2)
5-5-5: EFFECT OF INTOXICATION 1 :
No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
whether from alcoholic beverages or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by
reason of said person being in such condition. (1992 Code § 13-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-5A-5 of this chapter.
5-5-6: AIDING IN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such shall be guilty of an offense and punishable
in the same manner as the principal offender. (1992 Code § 13-4)
5-5-7: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave, in a place
accessible to children, any abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator or
other container of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more
which has an airtight door with a lock or other fastening device which cannot
be easily released for opening from the inside of the ice box, refrigerator or
container, without first removing the door, lock or fastener. (1992 Code § 9-
20; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE A.  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALS
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Gambling
5-5A-2: False Or Bogus Checks
5-5A-3: Harmful Deception
5-5A-4: Obstruction And Trespassing
5-5A-5: Offenses Relating To Controlled Dangerous Substances
5-5A-6: Immoral Conduct, Shows Or Exhibitions; Nudity
5-5A-7: Prostitution; Illicit Sexual Relations
5-5A-8: Certain Conduct Prohibited On Or Near School Grounds
5-5A-9: Offenses Relating To Alcohol
5-5A-10: Contributing To Delinquency Of Minors
5-5A-1: GAMBLING:
No person, firm or corporation (or agent or employee thereof) shall play, open
or cause to be opened, operate, carry on or conduct any game of roulette, craps
or any percentage game played with dice, for money, checks, chips, credit or
any other things of value, or shall set up, operate or permit to be operated,
any slot machine or other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit
or any other things of value are played, when the act of playing the same might
result in a gain or loss to the party playing; or shall gamble knowingly in any
other similar manner; or knowingly shall permit premises, houses, lots or other
property controlled by said entities to be used in connection with, or for, any
act declared unlawful in this chapter. This section shall not prohibit the
playing, operation or conduct of activities authorized by the Oklahoma
Education Lottery Act or the conduct or operation by a Federally recognized
Indian Tribe of covered games on the Tribe's Indian Lands as defined by the
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act as authorized by Tribal Gaming Compact between
said Tribe and the State of Oklahoma. (Ord. 299, 6-13-2019)
5-5A-2: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS 1 :
   A.   Definition: The term "false or bogus check or checks" shall include
checks or orders which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the
maker to pay the same or because the check or order was drawn on a closed
account or on a nonexistent account when such checks or orders are given in
exchange for money or property, in exchange for any benefit or thing of value
or as a down payment for the purchase of any item of which the purchaser is
taking immediate possession, as against the maker or drawer thereof.
   B.   Intent To Defraud: The making, drawing, uttering or delivering of a
check, draft or order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be
prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient
funds in, or credit with, such bank or other depository; provided, that such
maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due thereon, together
with the protest fees, within five (5) days from the date the same is presented
for payment; provided, further, that said check or order is presented for
payment within thirty (30) days after the same is delivered and accepted. (1992
Code § 13-11; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 1541.4.
5-5A-3: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise), when such deception results in,
or contributes to, the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or a
third party, or results in, or contributes to, the benefit of the deceiver.
(1992 Code § 13-12)
5-5A-4: OBSTRUCTION AND TRESPASSING:
   A.   Sleeping On Streets, In Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person, without lawful reason, to sleep upon any street or in any other public
place, or on any property of another person without the expressed or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge of such place. (1992 Code § 13-13;
amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Obstructing Access To Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person to obstruct access to, or trespass in or about, any public building, in
or about the station or depot of a public transportation carrier, or on or
about the premises of a public or private school.
   C.   Loitering Near Gambling Places: No person shall be or remain in the
immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling by the use of any
means or device.
   D.   Obstructing Vehicular Or Pedestrian Traffic: It shall be unlawful for
any person to stand or remain, either alone or in consort with others, in a
public place or building, in such a manner as to:
      1.   Obstruct any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other public
place or building by hindering, impeding or tending to hinder or impede the
free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians; or
      2.   Commit in or upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or any other
public place or building, any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or any business
lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing or fronting on any such public
street, highway, sidewalk or any other public place or building, all of which
prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein,
thereon and thereto. (1992 Code § 13-13)
5-5A-5: OFFENSES RELATING TO CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES 1 :
   A.   Narcotics, Dangerous Substances: It shall be unlawful for any person
under the influence of any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance to
appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or other public
place within the Town; or for any person to use any narcotic or other
controlled dangerous substance upon or in any street, alley, place of business
or other public place within the Town, except as legally prescribed by a
physician licensed to practice in the State; or for any person to loiter about
a place where any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance is sold or
furnished illegally; or for any person to sell or furnish illegally to another
person any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance.
   B.   Paint Or Enamel Products To Minors: No person, firm, business,
merchant, store, retailer, wholesaler or any agent or employee thereof shall
sell, transfer or give to any person under eighteen (18) years of age, any
paint or enamel product or any derivative thereof, in an aerosol or spray
container within the limits of the Town. (1992 Code § 13-14)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 5-5-5 of this chapter and section
  5-5A-9 of this article.
5-5A-6: IMMORAL CONDUCT, SHOWS OR EXHIBITIONS; NUDITY:
   A.   Lewd Conduct: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to conduct
themselves in a lewd or immoral manner, or make any insulting or licentious
advance or salutation to any person, in any public place within the Town.
   B.   Obscene Pictures: It shall be unlawful to show obscene or immoral
motion pictures or present any kind of a show or exhibition within the Town,
which is obscene or immoral.
   C.   Nudity: It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public
place within the Town in a state of total nudity, or for any person or persons
to make an indecent public exposure of themselves.
   D.   Pornographic Magazines: It shall be unlawful to publicly display
pornographic magazines or books for sale in any store within the corporate
limits of the Town.
   E.   Urinate Or Defecate In Public: It shall be unlawful for any person to
urinate or defecate in any publicly exposed place within the corporate limits
of the Town. (1992 Code § 13-15)
5-5A-7: PROSTITUTION; ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "illicit sexual relations"
shall mean sexual relations with any person other than one's lawful husband or
wife.
   B.   Engaging In Lewd Act For Money: It shall be unlawful for any person to
offer, submit or give himself or herself to a lewd or immoral use, such as
illicit sexual relations, or to engage in any lewd or immoral act for money or
any other thing of value.
   C.   Consorting With Prostitute: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in illicit sexual relations or any other immoral vocation, or to consort
with a prostitute or other person of immoral vocation, or to consort with
another for an immoral purpose, in any public place within the Town.
   D.   Keeping Place Of Prostitution: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation, or any agent or employee thereof, to keep, or assist in
keeping, a house of prostitution or a house or place within the Town where
persons meet or assemble for illicit sexual relations or for any other lewd or
immoral purpose.
   E.   Procuring For House Of Prostitution: It shall be unlawful and an
offense for any person to act as a procurer for any house or place of
prostitution or for any prostitute or other person engaged in an immoral
vocation, or to procure, assist in procuring or attempt to procure, any person
for another for illicit sexual relations or any other immoral purpose. (1992
Code § 13-16)
5-5A-8: CERTAIN CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS:
No person shall engage in any conduct or commit any of the acts enumerated
herein around, or on the grounds of, any school in the Town, or in any street,
alley or public area adjacent to a school:
   A.   Loitering by any person not having lawful business in connection with
the school, an employee thereof or student therein;
   B.   Any conduct that disturbs the orderly conduct of the school;
   C.   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   D.   Lewd or wanton conduct; or
   E.   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school or in any
street or alley adjacent thereto, in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school. (1992 Code § 13-17)
5-5A-9: OFFENSES RELATING TO ALCOHOL 1 :
   A.   Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Underage Persons:
         a.   Misrepresentation Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any person
under twenty one (21) years of age to misrepresent said person's age through
false documentation, for the purpose of inducing any person to sell alcoholic
beverages to said person.
         b.   Possession In Public: It shall be unlawful for any person under
twenty one (21) years of age to have in his possession any alcoholic beverages,
while such person is upon any street, alley, road or highway, or in any public
place within the Town.
      2.   Open Container In Retail Package Store: It shall be unlawful for any
person to open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a retail package store.
      3.   Drunkenness Or Intoxication: No person drunk or in a state of
intoxication shall appear, or be upon or in, any street, alley, place of
business or other public place, nor shall any person drink any alcoholic
beverage upon or in any street, alley, place of business or other public place
within the Town.
      4.   Violation Of State Or Local Laws: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to buy, receive, possess, sell, barter, give away,
manufacture or use any alcoholic beverages in violation of the State
Constitution and laws or this Code. (1992 Code § 13-18)
   B.   Low Point Beer: (Rep. by Ord. 293, 6-13-2019)
   C.   Transporting Intoxicating Beverage: It shall be unlawful for any person
to transport in any moving vehicle, upon any public highway, street, alley or
roadway within the corporate limits of the Town, or in or upon any property
owned by said Town outside of its corporate limits, any alcoholic beverage,
except in the original container which shall not have been opened and from
which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened
container is in the rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the
spare tire compartment in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside
compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other person in the
vehicle while it is in motion. (1992 Code § 13-19; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 293, 6-
13-2019)
 
Notes
  1. See title 3, chapter 2 of this Code; and section
1 5-5-5 of this chapter and section
  5-5A-5 of this article.
5-5A-10: CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINORS:
   A.   Definitions:
      DELINQUENT CHILD: A "delinquent child" shall include a minor who shall
have been, or is, violating any penal statute of this State or who commits any
offense listed in this Code.
      MINOR, CHILD: A "minor" or "child" shall include male or female persons
who shall not have arrived at the age of eighteen (18) years at the time of the
commission of the offense.
   B.   Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and
wilfully cause, aid, abet or encourage a minor to be, to remain or to become, a
"delinquent child", as defined herein. (1992 Code § 13-20)
ARTICLE B.  OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE, PERSONS
SECTION:
5-5B-1: Assault And Battery
5-5B-2: Weapons; Firearms; Air Rifles And BB Guns
5-5B-3: Offenses Related To Assemblies
5-5B-4: Improper Conduct; Harassing Phone Calls
5-5B-5: Vehicle Sound Amplification Systems Restricted
5-5B-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
      ASSAULT: Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence
to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY: Any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person
of another.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery
within the Town.
      2.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, without
justifiable or excusable cause, to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or officer of the law,
while said person is performing assigned duties. (1992 Code § 13-50)
5-5B-2: WEAPONS; FIREARMS; AIR RIFLES AND BB GUNS:
   A.   Carrying Or Transporting Weapons:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry upon or about his
person, or in a purse or other container belonging to the person, any pistol,
revolver, shotgun or rifle whether loaded or unloaded; or any dagger, bowie
knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife, spring type knife, sword cane, knife
having a blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button,
spring, or other device in the handle of the knife, blackjack, loaded cane,
billy, hand chain, metal knuckles, or any other offensive weapon, whether such
weapon be concealed or unconcealed, except when doing so in the line of duty or
as may be permitted by the provisions of the Oklahoma Self-Defense Act. Except
as otherwise prohibited by law, an eligible person shall have authority to
carry a concealed or unconcealed handgun in this State when the person has been
issued a handgun license from the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation
pursuant to the provisions of the Oklahoma Self-Defense Act, and the license
has not expired or been subsequently suspended or revoked.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport a loaded firearm on
any public street or alley within the corporate limits of the Town, except when
doing so in the line of duty. Pursuant to 21 Oklahoma Statutes 1289.7 any
person who is the operator of a vehicle or is a passenger in any vehicle
wherein another person who is licensed pursuant to Oklahoma Self-Defense Act to
carry a handgun, concealed or unconcealed, and is carrying a handgun or has the
handgun in such vehicle, shall not be deemed in violation of the provisions of
this section provided the licensee is in or near the vehicle. (Ord. 268, 4-10-
2014)
   B.   Discharging Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
a firearm within the corporate limits of the Town, except when doing so in the
line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself or of another person
or property, when otherwise authorized by State law or ordinance, when doing so
for the preservation of the peace, health or safety of residents or the
abatement of nuisances, or when engaged in authorized hunting or other related
activities.
   C.   Discharging Air Rifles, BB Guns: It shall be unlawful to discharge an
air rifle or BB gun within the Town in such a manner as to harm or damage
persons or property. (1992 Code § 13-40)
5-5B-3: OFFENSES RELATED TO ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Unlawful Assembly: It shall be unlawful for three (3) or more persons
to assemble together to act in concert to do any unlawful act against the
peace, to the terror of others, to make any movement thereto or any preparation
therefor, or otherwise to assemble together for other unlawful purposes.
   B.   Disturbing Lawful Assemblies: It shall be unlawful for any person to
disturb any lawful gathering, by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper
behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either
within the place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof. (1992 Code §
13-41; amd. 2005 Code)
5-5B-4: IMPROPER CONDUCT; HARASSING PHONE CALLS:
   A.   Disorderly Conduct; Noise: It shall be unlawful for any person to
disturb the peace of another or others by violent or improper conduct, by loud
or unusual noise, by unseemly, obscene, insulting, offensive or abusive
language, or by conducting oneself in a disorderly manner.
   B.   Harassing Phone Calls: It shall be unlawful for any person to use a
telephone to:
      1.   Make any obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent comment,
suggestion or proposal;
      2.   Make a telephone call without disclosing said person's identity and
with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any person at the called
number;
      3.   Knowingly permit any telephone under control of said person to be
used for any purpose prohibited in this subsection; or
      4.   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, make repeated
or continuous calls solely to harass any person at the called number.
   C.   Obscene Gestures: It shall be unlawful for any person to make,
demonstrate or otherwise symbolize any obscene gesture by use of said person's
extremities, toward any other human being or object within the corporate limits
of the Town. (1992 Code § 13-42)
5-5B-5: VEHICLE SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Definitions:
      AUDIBLE: Any sound produced by a sound amplification system from within
the vehicle, regardless of whether the vehicle is operating or occupied, which
can be heard at a distance of twenty five feet (25') or more. Measurement
standards shall be by the auditory senses, based upon direct line of sight.
Words or phrases need not be discernible and base reverberations are included.
The motor vehicle may be in any public or private location.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM: Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loud speaker, or other electronic device used for the amplification of sounds
including, without limitation, sounds created by human voice or musical
instrumentation.
   B.   Prohibition: No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a
street, highway, alley, parking lot, or driveway shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system from the vehicle so that the sound
is audible at a distance of twenty five (25) or more feet from the vehicle.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to the charge under
this section for the operator, not otherwise prohibited by law from operating
the sound amplification system, if any of the following conditions apply:
      1.   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
      2.   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
      3.   The vehicle was owned and operated by the Town, or a public or
private utility company;
      4.   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities, such as
parades, fireworks, sports events, or other activities which have been approved
by the Chief of Police; or
      5.   The vehicle was a commercial vehicle such as, but not limited to,
ice cream delivery trucks, etc. (Ord. 226, 5-13-2004)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-5C-1: Petty Larceny
5-5C-2: Receiving Stolen Property
5-5C-3: Damaging Or Destroying Property
5-5C-4: Unlawful Entry; Unlawful Intrusion; Private Property
5-5C-5: Posting Of Advertising Matter
5-5C-6: Damaging Utility Poles
5-5C-7: Throwing Or Shooting Of Objects
5-5C-8: Littering; Distributing Handbills
5-5C-9: Shoplifting
5-5C-1: PETTY LARCENY:
   A.   Definition: "Petty larceny" is the taking of personal property,
accompanied by fraud or stealth, or with intent to deprive another thereof,
when the property is not taken from the person of another.
   B.   Prohibited Act: Petty larceny is unlawful and any person who commits
petty larceny shall be guilty of an offense. (1992 Code § 13-60; amd. 2005
Code)
5-5C-2: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, receive, transport or bring into
the town any property which said person knows has been stolen. (1992 Code § 13-
61)
5-5C-3: DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or
molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real
or personal, public or private, belonging to another, including automobiles or
other vehicles; to use any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the
owner or other person entitled to its use; or to interfere wrongfully with the
use of any such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
(1992 Code § 13-62)
5-5C-4: UNLAWFUL ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTRUSION; PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Unlawful Entry: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, without
proper permission, upon the property of another or into an area or structure on
such property (whether such property, area or structure is public or private),
particularly when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or otherwise, or
when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such entrance is
in the line of duty, with the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person
in charge, or otherwise by authority of state law or ordinance.
   B.   Unlawful Intrusion: Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or
piece of land within the town, without authority from the owner thereof, or who
erects or occupies thereon any hut or other structure without such authority,
and every person who places, erects or occupies within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the town, any structure whatever, shall be guilty of
an offense.
   C.   Vacating Private Property When So Directed:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to remain on private property at any time other
than during posted hours of business operation, after having been directed to
vacate such premises by a police officer or by the owner or other person in
lawful possession of the premises or by the agent, servant or employee of the
owner.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence on the premises is authorized by the owner
or person in lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the provisions of
this subsection apply unless the hours of the business operation are posted
upon such premises.
      3.   It shall also be unlawful to return to said private property before
the posted time of opening for business operation on the next business day,
after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this
subsection. (1992 Code § 13-63)
5-5C-5: POSTING OF ADVERTISING MATTER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, post, paint, mark, write or print
any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, device or inscription
upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, automobile, other
vehicle or other property of another, without the consent of the owner or
person in charge thereof. (1992 Code § 13-64)
5-5C-6: DAMAGING UTILITY POLES:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to mark, write,
print, paint up, or otherwise make any signs or marks, by indentation or
otherwise, or by posting signs or posters, upon any telephone, television,
electric or power pole, either wood, concrete, steel or of any other substance,
within the corporate limits of the town. The word "pole" shall be construed to
mean any pole supporting telephone, television, electric or power wires or
braces, and any device used to support or brace such a pole.
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply to the owners of such poles who
may make such necessary or authorized marks or signs thereon. (1992 Code § 13-
65)
5-5C-7: THROWING OR SHOOTING OF OBJECTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where said person is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light or other property of another, whether public or private, except
in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of
property. (1992 Code § 13-66)
5-5C-8: LITTERING; DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "litter" is defined to be
any garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, paper, wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, leaves, wood, grass, bedding or crockery and similar materials
commonly referred to as "rubbish" or "trash".
   B.   Open Or Vacant Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or
upon any open or vacant property within the town, irrespective of the ownership
of such property.
   C.   Streets And Sidewalks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or
upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place within the town, except
in public receptacles, authorized private receptacles or in the municipal
sanitary landfill.
   D.   Sweeping Sidewalks: No person shall sweep into, or deposit in, any
gutter, street or other public place within the town, the accumulation of
litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front
of their premises free of litter.
   E.   Vehicle Loads, Tires: No person shall drive or move any truck or other
vehicle within the town, unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any
street, alley or other public place; nor shall any person drive or move any
vehicle or truck within the town, the wheels or tires of which carry onto, or
deposit in, any street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky
substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind, in excessive or damaging
amounts.
   F.   Depositing Handbills, Advertisements:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the town.
      2.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; however, it shall not be unlawful, in any
public place, for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it.
      3.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which is temporarily or continuously
vacant.
      4.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested not to do so or
if signs are posted bearing the words "no trespassing", "no peddlers or
agents", "no advertisements", or similar notice, indicating that the occupants
do not desire to have their privacy disturbed.
      5.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by transmitting them directly to the owner, occupant or persons present upon
such private premises. In cases of inhabited private premises which are not
posted, handbills must be distributed to prevent them from blowing on sidewalks
or other public places.
      6.   The provisions of subsection F5 of this section shall not apply to
the distribution of mail by the United States or to newspapers, except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property so as to prevent being carried
or deposited upon any street, sidewalk or public place, or on other private
property.
      7.   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the
town, any litter, handbill or any other object. (1992 Code § 13-67)
5-5C-9: SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   Removal Of Merchandise From Commercial Business: It shall be unlawful
for any person to remove any merchandise from a commercial business without
paying for said merchandise and without the consent of the owners of said
business.
   B.   Authority To Arrest Violator: Any police officer or security guard may
arrest, without warrant, any person if there is probable cause for believing
said person has committed larceny of merchandise held for sale in retail or
wholesale establishments, when such arrest is made in a reasonable manner.
   C.   Reasons For Detaining Suspected Person: Any merchant, an agent or
employee, who has reasonable grounds or probable cause to believe that a person
has committed or is committing a wrongful taking of merchandise or money from a
mercantile establishment may detain such person in a reasonable manner for a
reasonable length of time for all or any of the following purposes:
      1.   Conducting an investigation, including reasonable interrogation of
the detained person, as to whether there has been a wrongful taking of such
merchandise or money;
      2.   Informing the police or other law enforcement officials of the facts
relevant to such detention;
      3.   Performing a reasonable search of the detained person and said
person's belongings when it appears that the merchandise or money may otherwise
be lost; and
      4.   Recovering the merchandise or money believed to have been taken
wrongfully; any such reasonable detention shall not constitute an unlawful
arrest or detention, nor shall it render the merchant, an agent or employee
criminally or civilly liable to the person so detained.
   D.   Concealing Merchandise; Intent: Any person concealing unpurchased
merchandise of any mercantile establishment, either on the premises or outside
the premises of such establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed such
merchandise with the intention of committing a wrongful taking of such
merchandise within the meaning of this section, and such concealment or the
finding of such unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or among the
belongings of such person shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable grounds
and probable cause for the detention in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time, of such person by a merchant, an agent or employee,
and any such reasonable detention shall not be deemed to be unlawful, nor
render such merchant, his agent or employee criminally or civilly liable. (1992
Code § 13-68)
ARTICLE D.  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-5D-1: Resisting Arrest
5-5D-2: Impersonating Town Officer Or Employee
5-5D-3: False Representation To Town Officials
5-5D-4: Offenses Related To Prisoners
5-5D-5: Removal Of Barricades
5-5D-6: Flight From An Officer
5-5D-7: Offenses Related To Alarm Systems And Alarms
5-5D-1: RESISTING ARREST:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to resist, oppose or
obstruct the chief of police, any police officer, the municipal judge or other
town officers or employees in the discharge of their official duties; or, by
threats or otherwise, to intimidate, or attempt to intimidate, any such
officers or employees from the discharge of their official duties; or to
assault, beat, revile, abuse, be disrespectful to or use abusive or indecent
language toward or about, any such officers or employees, while such officers
or employees are in the discharge of their official duties. (1992 Code § 13-80)
5-5D-2: IMPERSONATING TOWN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate any town police officer or
employee, or exercise, or attempt to exercise, any of the duties, functions or
powers of any town officer or employee, without being duly authorized to do so.
(1992 Code § 13-81)
5-5D-3: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO TOWN OFFICIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make any material
misrepresentation to any town officer, employee or agency in any official
application to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or
agency, or to commit perjury before any tribunal or office of the town. (1992
Code § 13-82)
5-5D-4: OFFENSES RELATED TO PRISONERS:
   A.   Escape Of Prisoners: It shall be unlawful for any person confined in
the town jail or other place of confinement, working upon the streets or other
public places pursuant to any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the town, to escape, or attempt to escape, from any such jail,
prison or custody. (1992 Code § 13-83)
   B.   Assisting Prisoners To Escape:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set
at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner from
any officer or employee of the town having legal custody of such prisoner, or
from the town jail or other place of confinement, or to assist such prisoner in
any manner to escape from such prison or custody, or to give such prisoner any
weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to assist in
said escape, or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverages, narcotics or
other controlled dangerous substances.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate with, or attempt
to communicate with, any prisoner confined in the town jail, without authority
to do so from the chief of police or the officer in charge. (1992 Code § 13-84)
5-5D-5: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES 1 :
No person, unless authorized by proper authority, shall remove any barricade or
obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off any pavement,
street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (1992 Code § 13-85)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-11 of this code.
5-5D-6: FLIGHT FROM AN OFFICER:
A person commits the offense of flight from a police officer, if:
   A.   Said person is the operator of a vehicle and refuses to stop said
vehicle, as soon as is safely possible, when signaled to do so by a law
enforcement officer; or
   B.   Upon stopping said vehicle at the signal of a law enforcement officer,
abandons said vehicle and leaves, or attempts to leave, the immediate area
without the permission of the law enforcement officer; or
   C.   Said person is a passenger in a vehicle and abandons the vehicle after
a law enforcement officer has signaled the vehicle to stop; or
   D.   After the vehicle has stopped, leaves the immediate area without the
permission of the law enforcement officer; or
   E.   Said person is a pedestrian and leaves, or attempts to leave, the
immediate area after being directed by a law enforcement officer to stop or to
remain in said area for a reasonable length of time. (1992 Code § 13-86)
5-5D-7: OFFENSES RELATED TO ALARM SYSTEMS AND ALARMS:
   A.   Interference With Fire Alarm Systems: No person shall cut or sever, or
cause to be cut or severed, or interfere with in any manner, any wire of any
fire alarm system in the town; or remove or change the same; or cut, injure,
change, alter or remove any pole, crossarm, bracket or other support upon which
said wires rest or in which said wires are enclosed; or disconnect said wires
or any of them from the gongs, alarm boxes or instruments connected with said
fire alarm system; or cause, in any manner, the working of the same to become
obstructed or interfered with without being first duly authorized so to do by
the chief of the fire department; nor shall any person deface or in any manner
injure any of the fire alarm boxes or any instruments or appliances connected
with or belonging to said fire alarm system; or tamper with said fire alarm or
obstruct in any manner whatever, the boxes, keys or glass upon any of said
boxes; or make or cause to be made, without authority from the chief of the
fire department, keys to any alarm box or boxes; or to use, or cause to be
used, any such key so made; nor shall any person place or fasten over or upon
any fire alarm box a handbill, notice or sign of any kind, except the signs
placed upon the same at the direction of the chief of the fire department and
pertaining to the firebox; or cause to be hitched any horse or animal to any
pole on which is situated a fire alarm box. (1992 Code § 13-87)
   B.   False Fire Alarms: No person shall turn in a false fire alarm, or in
any manner shall deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or any
officer or employee with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or
knowingly shall cause the fire department or its officers or employees to make
a useless run. (1992 Code § 13-88)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS 1
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 3-2-6 of this code.
ARTICLE A.  CURFEW
SECTION:
5-6A-1: Definitions
5-6A-2: Age And Hour Restrictions
5-6A-3: Exceptions
5-6A-4: Parental Responsibility
5-6A-5: Procedure Upon Apprehension By Police
5-6A-6: Release From Custody
5-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor: a) as a natural or adoptive
parent; b) as a legal guardian; c) as a person who stands in loco parentis; or
d) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or place
to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment or other lawful purpose. A "public place" shall include, but not
be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe,
theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center or any other place devoted to
amusement or entertainment of the general public; it shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above.
REMAIN: To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets,
including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totaling four
(4) or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using the streets
for ordinary or serious purposes, such as mere passage or going home.
STREET: A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public as
a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel, or in the case of a
sidewalk thereof, for pedestrian travel. The term "street" includes the legal
right of way, including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right of way of a street.
TIME OF NIGHT: Shall be based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether
Central Standard Time or central daylight saving time, generally observed at
that hour by the public.
TOWN: The town of Carnegie, Caddo County, Oklahoma.
YEARS OF AGE: Shall continue from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that seventeen (17) or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent
to the phrase "under eighteen (18) years of age". (1992 Code § 13-22)
5-6A-2: AGE AND HOUR RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person seventeen (17) or less years of age (under
18) to be or remain in or upon the streets within the town at night during the
period ending at six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and beginning:
   A.   At ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday; and
   B.   At twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Saturday morning and Sunday
morning. (Res. 2000-4, 6-23-2000; amd. 2005 Code)
5-6A-3: EXCEPTIONS:
In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a public street, during the
nocturnal hours for which section
5-6A-2 of this article is intended to provide the maximum limits of regulation,
shall not, however, be considered in violation:
   A.   When accompanied by a parent of such minor.
   B.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to
take said parent's place in accompanying said minor for a designated period of
time and purpose, within a specified area.
   C.   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such exercise by
processing a written communication, signed by such minor and countersigned by a
parent of such minor, with their home address and telephone number, specifying
when, where and in what manner said minor will be on the streets at night, in
the exercise of a first amendment right specified in such communication.
   D.   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has, in said
minor's possession, a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by a parent of such minor, evidencing their home address and telephone number,
and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets, at a
designated time, for a described purpose, including points of origin and
destination.
   E.   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor but communicating an
objection to the police officer.
   F.   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 30 minutes of
the termination of) a school activity, or an activity of a religious or
voluntary association; provided, that the minor has a written communication, in
the minor's possession, countersigned by the parent, indicating the home
address and telephone number, the purpose for the event, when, where and in
what manner said minor will be on the streets at night.
   G.   When authorized by a regulation issued by the town board of trustees in
other similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled, but adapted to
necessary nighttime activities, or more minors than can readily be dealt with
on an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the town
board permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in advance to
permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other agencies,
such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
streets permitted, the period of time involved (not to extend more than 30
minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity), and the reason for
finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and consistent with the
public interest and the purposes of this article.
   H.   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his home and his place of employment,
and his hours of employment, or carries a valid proof of employment which may
include the latest payroll receipt, not over thirty (30) days old.
   I.   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel and clearly exempts bona fide interstate movement
through the town, particularly on normal routes. (1992 Code § 13-22)
5-6A-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for a parent, having legal custody of a minor, to
knowingly permit, or by inefficient control to allow, such minor to be, or
remain upon, any public street under circumstances not constituting an
exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this article. The term
"knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to
have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that parent's legal custody. It
is intended to continue to keep neglectful or careless parents up to a
reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an objective
test. It shall, a fortiori, be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such minor. (1992
Code § 13-22)
5-6A-5: PROCEDURE UPON APPREHENSION BY POLICE:
   A.   Apprehension; Notify Parent: A police officer of the town, upon finding
or having attention called to any minor on the streets in prima facie violation
of this article, normally shall take the minor to the Carnegie police station,
or other place designated by the chief of police, where a parent shall
immediately be notified to come for such minor, whereupon they shall be
interrogated. This is intended to permit ascertainment, under constitutional
safeguards, of relevant facts, and to centralize responsibility in the
personnel then on duty for accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform
enforcement and recording, thus making available to experienced supervisory
personnel, the best of facilities and access to information and records. In the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a police officer on
the street shall, in the first instance, use his best judgment in determining
age.
   B.   Refining Of Police Procedures: Police procedures shall constantly be
refined in the light of experience, and may provide, inter alia, that the
police officer may deliver to a parent thereof a minor under appropriate
circumstances; for example, a minor of tender age, near home, whose identity
may readily be ascertained or is known.
   C.   Filing Of Report: In any event, such police officer shall, within
twenty four (24) hours, file a written report with the chief of police, or
shall participate to the extent of the information for which he is responsible.
Said report shall be treated for purposes of juvenile records in accordance
with state statutes. (1992 Code § 13-22)
5-6A-6: RELEASE FROM CUSTODY:
When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the minor, and
the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be released to
the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or fails to take
charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the juvenile
authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police regulations,
approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may temporarily be
entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will, on behalf of a
parent, assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending the
availability or arrival of a parent. (1992 Code § 13-22)
ARTICLE B.  PREVENTION OF YOUTH NICOTINE ADDICTION
SECTION:
5-6B-1: Findings And Intent
5-6B-2: Definitions
5-6B-3: Distribution And Sales; Identification
5-6B-4: Distribution Of Samples
5-6B-5: Tobacco Sales In Original, Sealed Packaging
5-6B-6: Possession By Minor; Falsifying Proof Of Age
5-6B-7: Reporting To State
5-6B-8: Nonretaliation
5-6B-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT:
The town board of trustees finds that youth addiction to tobacco products is a
public health problem with grave health consequences. In recognition that
almost ninety percent (90%) of all smokers begin smoking by the age of eighteen
(18), action is needed to curtail the easy access of minors to cigarettes and
other addictive tobacco products. Furthermore, the town board of trustees finds
that the Oklahoma state legislature has limited the powers granted to local
governments to address the problems of youth access to tobacco. Therefore, the
intent of this article is to:
   A.   Implement the strictest and most enforceable system allowed under
Oklahoma state law to prevent the illegal sale of cigarettes and other tobacco
products to minors;
   B.   Periodically amend and update this article as necessary to best utilize
any applicable powers which may be returned to Oklahoma municipalities in the
future; and
   C.   Educate, encourage and assist underage tobacco users in ceasing all use
of addictive tobacco products, preferably before daily use of such products is
initiated. (2005 Code)
5-6B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the section:
PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
PROOF OF AGE: A driver's license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
SAMPLE: A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost for
the purpose of promoting the product.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. (2005 Code)
5-6B-3: DISTRIBUTION AND SALES; IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Furnishing To Underage Person: It is unlawful for any person to sell or
furnish in any manner any tobacco product to another person who is under
eighteen (18) years of age, or to handle tobacco products on behalf of any such
person.
   B.   Underage Employees: It shall not be unlawful for an employee under
eighteen (18) years of age to handle tobacco products when required in the
performance of the employee's duties.
   C.   Demand Proof Of Age: A person engaged in the sale or distribution of
tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if any ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under eighteen (18) years of age.
   D.   Failure To Require Proof Of Age: If an individual engaged in the sale
or distribution of tobacco products has demanded proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient who is not under eighteen (18) years of age,
the failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a
violation of this article.
   E.   Guilt Of Employee: If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a
store at which tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be
guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine.
   F.   Defense To Action; Demanding Proof: Proof that the defendant demanded,
was shown, and reasonably relied upon proof of age, shall be a defense to any
action brought pursuant to this article.
   G.   Multiple Locations: For purposes of determining the liability of a
person controlling franchises or business operations in multiple locations for
any violation of subsection A or B of this section, each individual franchise
or business location shall be deemed a separate entity.
   H.   Violation; Fine: Any person who shall violate subsection A or B of this
section shall be guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine of not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense within a one year
period and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense or subsequent
offense within a one year period.
   I.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of any person to pay any fine
authorized by this section within ninety (90) days of the day of the assessment
of such fine, the court clerk or his designee shall notify the Oklahoma
department of public safety, as such department is authorized to suspend or not
issue a driver's license to the person until proof of payment has been
provided. (2005 Code)
5-6B-4: DISTRIBUTION OF SAMPLES:
   A.   Distributing Near Playground Or School: No person shall distribute
tobacco product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is
within three hundred feet (300') of any playground, school, or other facility
when the facility is being used primarily by persons under eighteen (18) years
of age.
   B.   Violation; Fine: Any person who shall violate subsection A of this
section shall be guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine of not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense within a one year
period and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense or subsequent
offense within a one year period.
   C.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of any person to pay any fine
authorized by this section within ninety (90) days of the day of the assessment
of such fine, the court clerk or his designee shall notify the Oklahoma
department of public safety, as such department is authorized to suspend or not
issue a driver's license to the person until proof of payment has been
provided. (2005 Code)
5-6B-5: TOBACCO SALES IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGING:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in
the original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   B.   Violation; Fine: Any person who shall violate subsection A of this
section shall be guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine of not more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (2005 Code)
5-6B-6: POSSESSION BY MINOR; FALSIFYING PROOF OF AGE:
   A.   Prohibition: Except as provided under subsection 5-6B-3B of this
article, it is unlawful for a person under eighteen (18) years of age to
purchase, receive, or have in their possession a tobacco product, or to present
or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false or fraudulent
for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product.
   B.   Tobacco Education Program Attendance: On conviction of an individual
for an offense under subsection A of this section, the court shall suspend
execution of sentence and shall require the defendant to attend a tobacco
education program. The court shall require the parent or guardian of the
defendant to attend the tobacco education program with the defendant.
   C.   Community Service In Lieu Of Education Program: If access to the
tobacco education program is not readily available, the court shall require the
defendant to perform eight (8) to twelve (12) hours of tobacco related
community service instead of attending a tobacco education program.
   D.   Remedial Action: The tobacco education program and the tobacco related
community services are remedial and are not punishment.
   E.   Evidence Of Completion Of Program Or Service: No later than the
ninetieth day after the date of conviction under subsection A of this section,
the defendant shall present to the court, in a manner required by the court,
evidence of satisfactory completion of the tobacco education program or the
tobacco related community service.
   F.   Court Action: On receipt of the evidence required under subsection E of
this section, the court shall:
      1.   If the defendant has been convicted of a previous offense under
subsection A of this section, which offense occurred within one year prior to
the offense for which the defendant is currently charged, execute the sentence,
and, at the discretion of the court, assess a fine of not less than ten dollars
($10.00) and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      2.   If the defendant has not been convicted of a previous offense under
subsection A of this section, which offense occurred within one year prior to
the offense for which the defendant is currently charged, dismiss the complaint
and discharge the defendant.
   G.   Dismissal Of Complaint: If the court dismisses the complaint under
subsection F2 of this section, the defendant is released from all penalties and
disabilities resulting from the offense, except that the defendant is
considered to have been convicted of the offense if the defendant is
subsequently convicted of the same charge if such a repeat offense occurs
within one year of the dismissed offense.
   H.   Apply For Expungement: Any person convicted of an offense under
subsection A of this section may apply to the court to have the conviction
expunged. If the court finds that the individual satisfactorily completed the
tobacco education program or tobacco related community service ordered by the
court and that there has been no subsequent offense for a period of at least
one year after the date of the offense for which the person was convicted, the
court shall order the conviction and any complaint, verdict, sentence, or other
document relating to the offense to be expunged from the individual's record
and the conviction may not be shown or made known for any purpose.
   I.   Failure To Satisfy Penalty Or Fine: If the defendant does not provide
the evidence required under subsection E of this section within the period
specified by that subsection or upon failure of the defendant to pay any fine
authorized by this section within ninety (90) days of the day of the assessment
of such fine, the court clerk or his designee shall notify the Oklahoma
department of public safety, as such department is authorized to suspend or not
issue a driver's license to the person until the required evidence or proof of
payment has been provided. (2005 Code)
5-6B-7: REPORTING TO STATE:
The town clerk or his designee shall furnish any information or reports
required or requested by the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage law enforcement (ABLE)
commission in the form, manner and time as may be determined by the ABLE
commission. (2005 Code)
5-6B-8: NONRETALIATION:
No person shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner retaliate against
any employee, applicant for employment or customer because such employee,
applicant, or customer reported violations of any provisions of this article.
(2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Animal Control Officer
5-7-3: Regulations For Keeping Certain Animals
5-7-4: Rabies Control; Vaccination Requirements
5-7-5: Dog And Cat Sterilization; Adoption Standards
5-7-6: Zoning Regulations Prevail
5-7-7: Running At Large Prohibited
5-7-8: Confinement In Pen; Use Of Leash; Storm Shelters
5-7-9: Noise Or Disturbances By Animals; Nuisance Abatement
5-7-10: Owner Responsibilities
5-7-11: Breeding Of Animals
5-7-12: Cruelty To Animals
5-7-13: Turning Confined Animals At Large
5-7-14: Pasturing In Public Areas
5-7-15: Confining Female Dogs And Cats
5-7-16: Killing Vicious Dogs
5-7-17: Inspections; Complaint To Municipal Judge
5-7-18: Penalty
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section, except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates, or specifically provides for, a different meaning:
ANIMAL: All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, whether domesticated or wild,
including, but not limited to, bees, birds and fowl (including parakeets),
cattle, cats, chickens, dogs, ducks, geese, goats, fish, horses, livestock of
all types, mammals (including elephants), rabbits, all reptiles, rodents,
sheep, swine and turkeys.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER OR RABIES CONTROL OFFICER: The person(s) responsible for
enforcement of the Town's ordinances and regulations pertaining to animal
control in said community.
ANIMAL SHELTER OR MUNICIPAL POUND: Any premises formally designated by the Town
Board of Trustees for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held
under the authority of this chapter, regardless of whether or not said premises
are within or without the Town's corporate boundaries, and regardless of
whether or not said premises are under actual Town ownership or provided for
under a contractual arrangement between the Town and private sector owner(s).
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means, on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the
owner, a member of the immediate family over twelve (12) years of age or an
agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner's premises or
not.
HARBORING: Allowing any animal to habitually remain, or be fed, on premises
under an owner's control.
KENNEL: Any structure or place where more than three (3) dogs, over six (6)
months of age, are kept, bred or trained, at any single time, or any facility
designed or built to accommodate the temporary (less than 60 days) boarding of
more than three (3) dogs over six (6) months of age.
LIVESTOCK: All animals, other than dogs, cats, small caged birds or small
aquatic or amphibian animals.
NEUTER: To render a male dog or cat unable to reproduce.
NEW OWNER: A person legally competent to enter into a contract acquiring a dog
or cat from the releasing agency.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal.
Occupants of any premises to which a domesticated or tamed animal customarily
returns for a period of ten (10) days or more shall be deemed to be harboring
or keeping the animal, and thereby considered to be an "owner" of said animal.
PET: Any animal kept primarily for pleasure, rather than for sale or other
commercial purposes.
RELEASING AGENCY: Any pound (municipal or otherwise), shelter or humane society
organization, whether public or private.
RESTRAINT: An animal shall be deemed to be under "restraint" if confined on the
premises of its owner, if on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person,
or in the case of a hunting dog, if accompanied by its owner engaged in the act
of hunting.
SPAY: To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat, in order to render said
animal unable to reproduce.
STERILIZATION: To spay or neuter a dog or cat.
VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOG OR ANIMAL: Any dog or animal which has bitten or
attempted to bite any person without due provocation, or which attacks, barks
or growls at and acts as if it intended to attack or bite, any person or
persons, when not duly provoked.
WILD ANIMAL: Any animal which can normally be found living in a naturally wild
state and is not ordinarily tamed or domesticated. The term shall include such
animals (hereinabove described) which may be owned by a circus or wild animal
show or exhibition. (1992 Code § 3-1)
5-7-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The mayor, with the approval of the town board of
trustees, may appoint a person, persons or other entity to serve as the animal
control officer(s) for the town. Said officer(s) shall be appointed for an
indefinite term, and may be removed by the town board of trustees.
   B.   Salary: The salary of the animal control officer(s) shall be
established by the town board of trustees, and may be either on a salary basis
or a contractual fee system related to enforcement activities. (1992 Code § 1-
33)
5-7-3: REGULATIONS FOR KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS:
   A.   Compliance With Town Requirements: It shall be unlawful and an offense
for any person to keep any animals within the corporate limits of the town,
except under those conditions and provisions which may hereinafter specifically
regulate the keeping of certain types of animals.
   B.   Prohibited Animals: If no specific provisions are listed in this code
for keeping of a particular type of animal, said animal type shall not be kept
at all within the corporate limits of the town.
   C.   Structures Housing Animals; Manure Receptacles Required:
      1.   Every structure wherein any authorized animal is kept within the
corporate limits of the town shall be constructed of such material and in such
a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and it shall be
maintained in said condition, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from
objectionable odors, in order to avert the creation of a nuisance to the public
health.
      2.   Every such structure, if located within two hundred feet (200') of
any tenement, apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
residence (other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept), shall provide a watertight and flytight
receptacle for manure, of sufficient size to hold all accumulations of manure.
Such receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to
prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all
times, except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No
manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in such
receptacle.
   D.   Swine: No swine shall be kept within the corporate limits of the Town,
with the exception of FFA and/or 4-H projects kept on public school property,
or in appropriately zoned areas as provided for in any future Zoning Ordinance.
   E.   Bees:
      1.   The keeping of bees within the corporate limits of the Town shall be
permitted only in those areas zoned for agricultural or large lot (over 2
acres) residential uses, and/or in accordance with future Zoning Ordinance
provisions.
      2.   No license or permit shall be required to keep or raise bees. (1992
Code § 3-4; amd. 2005 Code)
   F.   Livestock And Fowl:
      1.   Consistent with provisions of the Town's future Zoning Ordinance,
the keeping or raising of horses and chickens (or similar fowl) shall be
permitted throughout the Town, as long as the premises are maintained in
accordance with the provisions of subsection C of this section and State and
County Health Department requirements and standards. (Ord. 280, 5-14-2015)
      2.   Additional restrictions on the raising and/or keeping of animals may
be imposed by the Town's future Zoning Ordinance without conflicting with this
subsection. (1992 Code § 3-4; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   While the keeping of horses consistent with the requirements of
subsections F1 and F2 of this section shall be permitted it shall be unlawful
and an offense for any person to ride horses upon any sidewalk within the
Municipal limits or in designated areas of the Town Park. (Ord. 248, 6-12-2008)
   G.   Dogs, Number Limited: No more than three (3) dogs may be harbored at
any single-family dwelling in the Town. This shall not prevent the operation of
kennels which meet the requirements of this chapter and this Code (see article
A of this chapter).
   H.   Rabbits: The raising or keeping of rabbits shall be permitted, in
accordance with the provisions of subsection C of this section, as well as any
applicable provisions of any future Zoning Ordinance.
   I.   Wild Animals: The keeping or raising of any wild animals shall be
prohibited within the Town, except for those wild animals which may be under
the care of traveling shows or circuses, and for which the license requirements
of article A of this chapter are met and a permit obtained.
   J.   Poisonous Snakes: No snakes which are poisonous in their natural state
may be kept within the corporate limits of the Town.
   K.   Farming Or Ranching Operations: Consistent with provisions of the
Town's future Zoning Ordinance, persons living within the Town's corporate
limits who are conducting farming and/or ranching operations on tracts of land
of five (5) acres or larger may keep and maintain such animals as may be
required or useful in their operations; provided, that such sanitary
requirements as may be detailed in this section and chapter shall be complied
with at all times, regardless of the size of the tract of land involved. (1992
Code § 3-4; amd. 2005 Code)
5-7-4: RABIES CONTROL; VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Vaccination Required; Issuance Of Certificate:
      1.   Warm Blooded Animals: Any warm blooded animal, capable of
transmitting the virus rabies, maintained or harbored at any time in the Town
shall be vaccinated against rabies with an approved vaccine administered by a
veterinarian who shall maintain a record of vaccination for a period of at
least three (3) years, and who shall issue the owner of such animal a
vaccination certificate (which shall be retained by said owner until it expires
and is renewed). The failure to procure such certificate when so requested by
the animal control officer shall be prima facie evidence that such animal has
not been vaccinated.
      2.   Dogs And Cats: It shall be the duty of every person within the
corporate limits of the Town owning or harboring any dog or cat which is six
(6) months old or older to procure a rabies vaccination certificate from a
licensed veterinarian, or agent authorized by the Town Board of Trustees,
showing that the vaccination has been made, date of vaccination, by whom and
the date when such vaccination shall expire.
      3.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to not abide by the Town
vaccination requirements after fifteen (15) days of residency.
   B.   Quarantine Of Animal That Bites Person:
      1.   The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person shall be promptly furnished to the animal control officer and County
Health Department.
      2.   The animal control officer shall securely quarantine such animal
until reasonable determination has been made that the animal is not infected
with rabies. At the discretion of the animal control officer, such quarantine
may be on the premises of the owner, at a veterinary hospital of the owner's
choice (at the owner's expense), or at the Municipal pound or animal shelter.
In case of animals whose ownership is unknown, such quarantine shall be at the
Municipal pound or animal shelter. Said animal may be reclaimed by the owner,
if adjudged free of rabies; such owner shall then pay any related charges for
confinement.
   C.   Death Of Rabid Animals; State Examination: When an animal under
quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or is suspected of having rabies
by a licensed veterinarian, and dies while under such observation, the animal
control officer, veterinarian or other designated person shall immediately send
the necessary part of such animal to the State Department of Health for
pathological examination and shall notify the proper Health Officer of any
reports of human contact.
   D.   Communitywide Quarantine:
      1.   When a report gives a positive diagnosis of rabies and the County
Health Director feels that a rabies crisis may be imminent, the Health
Department may recommend to the Town Board of Trustees a communitywide
quarantine.
      2.   Upon the invoking of such quarantine by the Town Board of Trustees,
no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the streets,
except for short periods of exercise (under leash and control of a competent
adult).
      3.   During such quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the
Town without written permission of the animal control officer.
   E.   Destruction Of Rabies Suspect Animal: During such period of rabies
quarantine, every animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be
forthwith destroyed; or, at the owner's expense and option, shall be treated
for a rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian; or, held under six (6) month
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as a female in season. The period of
quarantine may be extended.
   F.   Removal Or Disposal Of Animal:
      1.   No person shall remove from the Town any animal suspected of having
been exposed to rabies, or any animal that has bitten a human, except as herein
provided.
      2.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be
surrendered to the animal control officer upon demand; and the animal control
officer shall direct disposition of said animal.
      3.   No person shall refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or
destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the animal control officer.
(1992 Code § 3-9)
5-7-5: DOG AND CAT STERILIZATION; ADOPTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Sterilization Required; Deposit: No dog or cat may be released for
adoption from a releasing agency in the Town unless said animal has been
surgically spayed or neutered, or unless the adopting party signs an agreement
to have the animal sterilized, and deposits funds with the releasing agency to
ensure that the adopted animal will be spayed or neutered. The amount of the
deposit required shall be ten dollars ($10.00), as per State Statute. (1992
Code § 3-14; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Refund Of Deposit:
      1.   The funds deposited with the releasing agency shall be refunded to
the adopting party upon the adopting party's presentation of a written
statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that the adopted animal has been
spayed or neutered. However, no refunds shall be made unless said animal was
spayed or neutered within sixty (60) days of adoption in the case of adult
animals, or, in the case of infant animals, within thirty (30) days of the date
a female animal attained the age of six (6) months, or a male animal attained
the age of eight (8) months.
      2.   If requested to do so, releasing agencies shall refund deposited
funds to the adopting party, upon reasonable proof being presented to the
releasing agency, by the adopting party, that the adopted animal died before
the expiration of the period during which the spaying or neutering was required
to be completed.
   C.   Authority To Adopt Additional Rules: Releasing agencies may adopt any
additional rules to implement the State Dog and Cat Sterilization Act 1 ;
provided, that said rules do not conflict with the provisions or purpose of the
State Dog and Cat Sterilization Act to require the spaying and neutering of all
dogs and cats adopted from releasing agencies.
   D.   Extension Of Time Limit: Upon presentation of a written report from a
licensed veterinarian stating that the life or health of an adopted animal may
be jeopardized by surgery, the releasing agency shall grant a thirty (30) day
extension of the period within which the spay or neuter surgery would otherwise
be required. Further extensions may be granted upon additional veterinary
reports stating their necessity.
   E.   Disposition Of Funds: Funds which have been forfeited by adopting
parties shall be placed in a separate account, which shall be an interest
bearing account whenever feasible, and releasing agencies shall allocate funds
from said account to programs which directly promote, subsidize or otherwise
reduce the cost of spaying or neutering animals of the releasing agency. The
releasing agency shall maintain accurate records of accounts which fund spay/
neuter programs.
   F.   Establish Adoption Standards: Subject to the provisions and purposes of
the State Dog and Cat Sterilization Act and other laws of the State of
Oklahoma, releasing agencies may establish adoption standards for pets in their
care; provided, that in the case of public facilities, said standards must be
reasonably related to the prevention of cruelty to animals, or the responsible
management of dogs and cats in the interest of preserving the public health and
welfare, and shall be applied in a fair and equal manner to all potential
adopters.
   G.   Exceptions: The provisions of the State Dog and Cat Sterilization Act
shall not be construed to require the sterilization of dogs and cats held in
releasing agencies which might be claimed by their rightful owners, nor shall
it be construed to require the sterilization of dogs and cats held pursuant to
the provisions of 4 Oklahoma Statutes sections 391 through 402. Further, the
State Dog and Cat Sterilization Act shall not be construed to interfere with
Municipal ordinances that meet or exceed the sterilization requirements set
forth in the State Dog and Cat Sterilization Act. (1992 Code § 3-14)
 
Notes
1 1. 4 OS § 499 et seq.
5-7-6: ZONING REGULATIONS PREVAIL:
   A.   Prevailing Regulations: In case of conflict between this chapter and
any future Zoning Ordinance, the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance shall
prevail and supersede the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: No animal shall be kept in
violation of any Zoning Ordinance. (1992 Code § 3-13; amd. 2005 Code)
5-7-7: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for the owner of any animal, domestic or
wild, (including dogs), to permit the same to be or run at large or trespass
upon the premises of another person, or be unlawfully at large at any time
within the corporate limits of the Town. (1992 Code § 3-2)
5-7-8: CONFINEMENT IN PEN; USE OF LEASH; STORM SHELTERS:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to:
   A.   Substantial And Secure Pen Required: Keep, own, harbor or possess any
dog within the corporate limits of the Town without providing a substantial and
secure pen in which said dog shall be confined (which pen shall be sufficient
in size that no sanitation or health problem shall be involved); or
   B.   Use Of Leash: Allow a dog to be under the control of any person, and
placed on an inadequately sized leash so that it can reach or bite any person
who may be using the public thoroughfares of the Town, so the dog can reach
beyond the limits of the lot or premises upon which said dog is kept and
confined, or so the dog may reach any person who may be rendering necessary
services to the house of such owner, upon the premises where said dog may be
kept, harbored or possessed. (1992 Code § 3-2)
   C.   Prohibited In Community Storm Shelters: Take or attempt to take any
animal as defined in section
5-7-1 of this chapter, with the exception of service animals, whether
adequately leashed or otherwise under the control of any person, into, or upon
the premises of, any community storm shelter. (Ord. 258, 7-14-2011)
5-7-9: NOISE OR DISTURBANCES BY ANIMALS; NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
   A.   Causing Noise Or Disturbance: It shall be a public nuisance for any
person to keep any dog or other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise,
disturbs the peace and quiet of, or creates a nuisance for, any person or
persons.
   B.   Attacking Other Animals Or Damaging Property: It shall also be a public
nuisance for any person to keep any dog or other animal which attacks other
animals or damages private or public property.
   C.   Abatement Of Nuisances: Abatement of such public nuisances shall be
handled in accordance with the provisions of title 4, chapter 1 of this Code.
(1992 Code § 3-3)
5-7-10: OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES:
In addition to any duties previously outlined, the owner of any animal shall
have the following additional responsibilities:
   A.   Owners shall exercise proper care and control of their animals to
prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   B.   Owners shall provide proper care and treatment of their animals.
   C.   Owners shall not abandon their animals. (1992 Code § 3-5)
5-7-11: BREEDING OF ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal for breeding purposes
within the corporate limits of the Town unless said person has obtained a
breeder's permit from the Town Clerk upon payment of a fee in the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) to be renewed annually. Such animals shall be kept in
private, enclosed locations, entirely out of the public view, and shall not be
permitted to have sexual intercourse in any place except a private, enclosed
place. This shall not be construed as permitting the conditional keeping of any
animals otherwise prohibited or regulated by this Code. (Ord. 294, 6-13-2019)
5-7-12: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly,
wilfully or maliciously to:
      1.   Deposit any animal with the intention of abandoning the same;
      2.   Pour on or apply to an animal, any drug or other thing which
inflicts pain;
      3.   Improperly use any collar, leash, harness, etc., resulting in pain
or damage to an animal;
      4.   Treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner;
      5.   Neglect an animal belonging to, or in the custody of, an owner, in a
cruel or inhumane manner;
      6.   Kill, or attempt to kill, any animal in an inhumane manner; or
      7.   Poison, or expose to poison, any dog or other animal, except a
noxious, nondomesticated animal.
   B.   Encourage Fighting: It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate or
encourage a fight between animals, or to keep a house, pit or other place used
for fights between animals. (1992 Code § 3-6)
5-7-13: TURNING CONFINED ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which an animal is
confined (as required by ordinance), so as to turn such animal at large, or to
in any other manner turn such animal at large. (1992 Code § 3-7)
5-7-14: PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on
any public property (Federal, State, Municipal or other), or on any railroad
right-of-way, without the consent of the person owning or controlling such
property. (1992 Code § 3-8)
5-7-15: CONFINING FEMALE DOGS AND CATS:
Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined, in a building or secure
enclosure, in such a manner that such animal cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding. (1992 Code § 3-10)
5-7-16: KILLING VICIOUS DOGS:
The animal control officer, designated representatives or any police officer of
the Town shall be required to kill any dog running loose within the corporate
limits of the Town, which is determined by the animal control officer or police
officer to be vicious or crazed and a threat to the public health and safety,
and which dog is found running at large without being restrained in a pen or on
a leash (as provided by this chapter), without keeping said dog in the
Municipal pound for any period of time. (1992 Code § 3-11)
5-7-17: INSPECTIONS; COMPLAINT TO MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Inspection Authorized: The local or County health official, the animal
control officer, or any member of the Town Board of Trustees, upon complaint of
any person or on a self-initiated basis, shall inspect any structure or place
wherein an animal is kept.
   B.   Issuance Of Order To Owner: The local or County health official, or the
animal control officer, may issue any such reasonable order as may be deemed
necessary to the owner of such animal, to cause such animal to be kept as
provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   C.   Complaint To Municipal Judge: The local or County health official, or
the animal control officer, may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge
against any person for violation of any provision of this chapter or for any
such reasonable order, but this shall not abridge the right of others to make
such complaints. (1992 Code § 3-12)
5-7-18: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter, or
who violates or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by any Health
Officer, the Chief of Police or the Animal Control Officer, pursuant to this
chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in a sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this Code, and shall be subject to revocation of any license or
operating permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Every day's
violation of any provision of this chapter or of such order of the Health
Officer, Animal Control Officer or Chief of Police, shall constitute a separate
offense. (1992 Code § 3-60)
ARTICLE A.  LICENSING ANIMALS, KENNELS AND PET SHOPS
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Wild Circus Animals
5-7A-2: Catteries, Kennels And Pet Shops
5-7A-3: Penalty
5-7A-1: WILD CIRCUS ANIMALS:
   A.   License Required: All wild animals owned by a circus or travelling
animal show shall not be permitted within the corporate limits of the town
unless the owner or person in charge of said circus or show, or a designated
representative, has first obtained a license for said animals from the town
clerk.
   B.   Protective Safeguards Required: Said license shall be issued by the
town clerk upon submission of a written, signed statement by the applicant that
ample safeguards have been provided to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. (1992 Code § 3-32)
   C.   License Fee: To cover issuance and enforcement costs, the applicant
shall pay a fee in such amount as set by the board of trustees to the town
clerk; the written receipt may constitute the license. (1992 Code § 3-32; amd.
2005 Code)
   D.   Term Of License: Said license, so issued, shall be valid for a term of
one month. (1992 Code § 3-32)
5-7A-2: CATTERIES, KENNELS AND PET SHOPS:
   A.   License Required: No person, firm or corporation shall own, maintain or
operate a kennel within the corporate limits of the town unless such kennel is
licensed as hereinafter provided. (See the definition of "kennel" in section
5-7-1 of this chapter.)
   B.   Application For License; Compliance With Future Zoning Regulations:
      1.   Application for such license shall be made to the town clerk and
shall state the name and address of the owner or operator of said kennel, with
the street address and legal description of the property upon which the kennel
is located.
      2.   Said kennel must be in compliance with any applicable portions of
any future zoning ordinance adopted by the town.
   C.   License Fee; Exhibition Of License; Other Licenses:
      1.   The annual kennel license fee shall be in such amount as set by the
board of trustees and such license shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place on
the premises.
      2.   Each animal kept in a kennel shall also be required to have all
other applicable licenses, tags, etc.
   D.   Term Of License: Licenses shall be issued for a period of one year
beginning on January 1 of each year. Licenses may be issued starting thirty
(30) days before January 1 and for thirty (30) days thereafter, or at such time
as a new kennel seeks to become operational.
   E.   Rabies Vaccination Required: A kennel owner must show proof of rabies
vaccination on all animals over six (6) months of age when applying for a
license.
   F.   Maintenance Of Kennels:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation maintaining a kennel, whether for
profit or not, shall maintain such kennel in a sanitary condition and shall be
subject to the provisions of this code and any future zoning ordinance.
      2.   Nonconforming kennels shall be deemed a public nuisance.
   G.   Location Restricted: No kennel or other establishment wherein animals
are kept shall be maintained closer than forty feet (40') to any tenement or
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or residence, other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal
is kept.
   H.   Standards And Requirements: All pet shops, catteries and kennels shall:
      1.   Records: Maintain records and retain such records for a two (2) year
period on all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records shall
show breed, color, markings, sex, age, date and source of the animal, period
for which the animal is maintained, date and disposition of the animal
(including name and address of the new owner), and disease prevention and/or
treatment and by whom.
      2.   Environmental Conditions: Provide general environmental conditions
to assure adequate physical space for each animal, control of parasites, clean
food and water, weather protection and clean and sanitary facilities.
      3.   Cages And Pens: Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable
materials, if used for confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and
sanitary.
   I.   Enclosure Requirements:
      1.   Subject To Kennel Requirements: Pet shops shall be subject to the
same requirements for licensing as kennels.
      2.   Compliance With Code And Future Zoning Regulations: In addition, any
other requirements of this code or of any future zoning ordinance which may
involve specific animals sold in a pet shop shall also be included in those
regulations applicable to pet shops. (1992 Code § 3-33; amd. 2005 Code)
5-7A-3: PENALTY:
See section
5-7-18 of this chapter for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
ARTICLE B.  ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
5-7B-1: Municipal Pound Authorized
5-7B-2: Impoundment Of Animals
5-7B-3: Fees For Impounding And Keeping
5-7B-4: Claiming Of Impounded Animals
5-7B-5: Breaking Pound
5-7B-6: Penalty
5-7B-1: MUNICIPAL POUND AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Jurisdiction: The town board of trustees is hereby authorized to
establish a municipal pound, under the jurisdiction of the chief of police or
the animal control officer, who shall provide proper sustenance for all animals
impounded and treat them in a humane manner.
   B.   Shared Or Contractual Basis: The municipal pound may be established on
a shared or contractual basis with other units of government or with a private
individual or firm, and need not be physically located within the town. (1992
Code § 3-40)
5-7B-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Authority: The animal control officer, designated representatives or
any police officer of the town shall have the authority to pick up and restrain
any dog, cat, or other animal as defined in this chapter found to be running
loose or at large within the corporate limits of the town, and to restrain said
animal in the municipal pound or at other designated facilities and to utilize
live traps or other reasonable means necessary to accomplish same. (Ord. 221,
12-11-2003)
   B.   Animals: It shall be the duty of the animal control officer (or any
other designated officer or employee of the town) to take into custody, and
impound, any animal running at large in violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Dogs:
      1.   The animal control officer shall also proceed to impound any dog
that is running at large within the corporate limits of the town, or that is
not confined with a secure and suitably sized leash (as provided in this
chapter), regardless of whether or not the owner may have a permit, the dog has
been vaccinated or the dog bears a tag.
      2.   The animal control officer shall immediately pick up and impound any
and all dogs which are kept, owned, possessed or harbored in violation of any
of the terms and provisions of this code.
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Dog: Any person appearing at the municipal
pound who shall satisfy the keeper of the same of the fact of ownership or the
right to the possession of any dog therein impounded shall have such dog
returned, upon the payment of the charges due, as authorized by the provisions
of this chapter. (1992 Code § 3-41)
   E.   Destruction Of Animal; Holding Time: Animals taken into custody as
provided in this chapter shall be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal
control officer; provided, that no animal taken into custody shall be destroyed
until such animal shall have been impounded at least seventy two (72) hours 1 .
During such time, the owner may reclaim the animal or a proper home may be
established for such animal by any person desiring the animal as a pet and
willing to pay applicable license fees and expenses incurred in the animal's
detention. The owner of any tagged or licensed animal shall be notified of the
animal's impoundment, and shall have five (5) calendar days from the date of
such notice to redeem the animal, as provided above.
   F.   Obstructing Impoundment Official: It shall be unlawful for any person
to, in any manner, obstruct the duties and activities of the town official or
employee responsible for impounding animals. (1992 Code § 3-41; amd. 2005 Code)
   G.   Animal Control Policy: All animals picked up by the Town of Carnegie
animal control officer will be housed at the Town of Carnegie Animal Shelter
for three (3) days. At the end of this three (3) day period, any animal that is
not claimed will either be put up for adoption or euthanized.
      Before any animal may be claimed, a pet license must be obtained at the
Town Hall. No license will be issued without proof of vaccinations. If an
animal is picked up a second time an animal at large fee of forty dollars
($40.00) will be charged. This must be paid prior to the release of the animal.
If this same animal is picked up a third time, the price will be eighty dollars
($80.00). On the fourth offense the animal may be put up for adoption or
euthanized without notice given to the owner.
      All animals are to be licensed with the Town of Carnegie, and they must
have current vaccination records. These may include a receipt from a licensed
veterinarian or a documented record that the owner has given these vaccines
themselves and may be held liable. The license fee for females that have not
been spayed or males that have not been neutered is seven dollars fifty cents
($7.50) per year. All others are licensed at a price of five dollars ($5.00)
per year. These licenses are due annually and it is the responsibility of the
owner to see to it that these are taken care of in a timely manner.
      If an animal does not have a current vaccination record, they may be
released with a deposit of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which will be
refunded once proof of vaccination is received.
      If an individual is missing an animal that they believe to be held at the
Town Shelter, they may call City Hall, 580-654-1004, and leave a message with a
detailed description of their missing pet.
      An adoption fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day, for each day that the
animal has been housed at the Animal Shelter will be charged to any individual
wishing to adopt an animal from the animal shelter or adoption agency. (Ord.
234, 9-15-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-7-16 of this chapter, exception for vicious dogs.
5-7B-3: FEES FOR IMPOUNDING AND KEEPING:
   A.   Fees Imposed: The fees for impounding and keeping an animal shall be
paid upon redemption. (1992 Code § 3-42; amd. Ord. 234, 9-15-2005)
   B.   Payment Of Fees: All fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk. Receipt for
payment of fees on an impounded animal shall be presented to the animal control
officer or the person in charge of the Municipal pound before the animal shall
be released. (1992 Code § 3-42)
5-7B-4: CLAIMING OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
An owner of an impounded animal, or his agent, may claim or redeem the animal
prior to its sale, destruction or delivery to an institution, by paying the
required fees against the animal and meeting any other requirements prescribed
by this chapter. (1992 Code § 3-43)
5-7B-5: BREAKING POUND:
No unauthorized person shall break open, or attempt to break open, the
Municipal pound, or take or let out any animal therefrom, or take or attempt to
take from any officer or employee of the Town, any animal taken into custody as
provided by this Code, or in any manner interfere with, or hinder, such officer
or employee in the discharge of duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals, as provided in this chapter. (1992 Code § 3-45)
5-7B-6: PENALTY:
See section
5-7-18 of this chapter for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 8
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-8-1: Fair Housing Board
5-8-2: Certain Acts Prohibited
5-8-3: Certain Acts Exempted
5-8-4: Grievance Procedure; Complaint; Hearing
5-8-1: FAIR HOUSING BOARD:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created a fair housing board for the
town to assist in the enforcement of all town fair housing regulations and
ordinances.
   B.   Board Of Trustees Act As Such Board: The town board of trustees shall
serve as the fair housing board of the town. (1992 Code § 1-43)
5-8-2: CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or the authorized
agents or representatives of said person, firm or corporation to:
   A.   Refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title or
other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential housing
is to be constructed, to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap, or
familial status.
   B.   Refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or lease of
any residential property, or to represent that such property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental or lease, when in fact it is so available, because
of such person's race, gender, color, handicap, familiar status, religion, age
or national origin.
   C.   Solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person owning
any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not to sell,
rent or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss of value due to
the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons
of another race, gender, color, handicap, religion, age, familial status, or
national origin, either by direct solicitation or inducement, or to distribute,
or cause to be distributed, material or statements designed to induce a
residential property owner to sell or lease such property, due to such change
in a neighborhood.
   D.   File a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with knowledge
that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such complaint
for the sole purpose of harassment. (1992 Code § 5-15; amd. 2005 Code)
5-8-3: CERTAIN ACTS EXEMPTED:
Nothing herein shall apply to:
   A.   Prohibiting persons from giving preference to prospective buyers or
tenants for any reason other than race, color, gender, handicap, familial
status, religion, age or national origin. (1992 Code § 5-16; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   The sale of a dwelling which is, or was at the time when first offered
for sale, the residence of its owner.
   C.   The rental of rooms in an owner occupied residence or used in a
dwelling exclusively as a rooming house.
   D.   The rental or leasing of a housing unit in a building containing not
more than eight (8) housing units.
   E.   The rental or leasing of a dwelling or housing unit owned by any
religious or fraternal organization, or private club used and occupied for such
organizational purposes. (1992 Code § 5-16)
5-8-4: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE; COMPLAINT; HEARING:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a discriminatory housing practice prohibited by
town ordinance may file a written, signed complaint with the fair housing
board. Such complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180) days after
the alleged discriminatory practice occurs.  (1992 Code § 5-18; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Said complaint shall state the name and address of the person alleged
to have violated the provisions of this chapter, or any other town ordinance,
and shall set forth the particulars of said violation.
   C.   The fair housing board shall receive such complaint, investigate its
allegations and set a date for a hearing to be held on the complaint. Said
hearing shall be held within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the
complaint.
   D.   At least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the person named in the
complaint and the complainant shall be notified, in writing, of the time and
place of such hearing.
   E.   The fair housing board shall take, and may allow, such actions at the
hearing, as may be necessary to ensure that all parties are afforded the
opportunity to fairly present their cases.
   F.   If the fair housing board, by majority vote at the conclusion of the
hearing, finds that the person has not engaged in any discriminatory housing
practice, it shall state its findings and dismiss the case.
   G.   If the fair housing board, by majority vote at said hearing, finds that
the person engaged in discriminatory housing practices, it shall state its
findings in writing and submit them to the respondent and the town attorney for
consideration. Unless the complaint is withdrawn or the town attorney finds
that there is insufficient information upon which to base a charge, the charge
shall be filed in the municipal court, within twenty (20) days of said hearing.
(1992 Code § 5-18)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
 
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Enforcement Of Regulations
6-1-3: Obedience To Regulations; Responsibility
6-1-4: Public Officials And Employees
6-1-5: Duties Of Police Officers And Firefighters
6-1-6: Eluding Police Officer
6-1-7: Necessity Of Signs
6-1-8: Citation Tags; Failure To Comply
6-1-9: Vehicle Licensing; Inspection; Security Verification
6-1-10: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-1-11: Construction Zones
6-1-12: Persons Working On Streets
6-1-13: Penalty
6-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Traffic Safety Code Adopted: The Oklahoma highway traffic safety code
(47 Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, and every 10 years' recodification thereof)
is hereby adopted and incorporated in this town code, as if set out at length
herein, for the purposes of establishing locally appropriate rules and
regulations for the control of traffic within the town.
   B.   Definitions In Statute Adopted: The definitions of words used in this
title shall be the same as those definitions in 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1-101 through 1-186, as amended. (1992 Code § 18-1)
   C.   Copies On File: The office of the town clerk shall maintain at least
one copy of the current Oklahoma highway traffic safety code adopted by this
section. (1992 Code § 18-1; amd. 2005 Code)
6-1-2: ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Town Board Authority: The town board of trustees is hereby empowered to
adopt and provide for the enforcement of regulations necessary to make the
provisions of this title and any other traffic or related ordinances of the
town effective, and to adopt and provide for the enforcement of temporary
regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions.
   B.   Compliance With Enforcement Officials: No person shall wilfully fail or
refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of the chief of police, any
police officer, firefighter or any other authorized town employee. (1992 Code §
18-5)
6-1-3: OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS; RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Vehicle Owner Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to authorize or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in
his, her or its name, to be driven or be parked in violation of any provisions
of this title.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: The parent or guardian of any child or ward
shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any
of the provisions of this title. (1992 Code § 18-150)
6-1-4: PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Compliance With Regulations: The provisions of this title shall apply
to the driver of any vehicle owned by, or used in the service of, the United
States government, and any state, county, municipal or other governmental unit
or agency, as well as to other vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any such
driver to violate any of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise
permitted in this title or by state law.
   B.   Exceptions: This title shall not apply to the military forces of the
United States and organizations of the national guard when performing military
duty. (1992 Code § 18-151)
6-1-5: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   General Duties Of Police: It shall be the duty of the chief of police
and any police officers to enforce the traffic regulations of the town, and all
of the state vehicle laws applicable to traffic in the town, to make arrests
for traffic violations, to investigate accidents, to cooperate with other town
officials in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specifically imposed
upon said police officers by this title and any other traffic or related
ordinances of the town.
   B.   Directing Traffic:
      1.   The chief of police and all assistants are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal, in conformance with traffic laws
and ordinances.
      2.   In the event of a fire, other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, such officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
      3.   Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may assist police
officers in directing traffic. (1992 Code § 18-9)
6-1-6: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any operator of a motor vehicle who has
received a visual and/or an audible signal (red light and/or a siren) from a
police officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, sheriff or highway patrol car, directing the operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop, to wilfully increase his speed or extinguish his lights
in an attempt to elude such police officer, to wilfully attempt, in any other
manner, to elude the police officer, or to elude such police officer. (1992
Code § 18-161)
6-1-7: NECESSITY OF SIGNS:
No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (1992 Code § 18-152)
6-1-8: CITATION TAGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY 1 :
   A.   Issuance Of Citations:
      1.   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title, by delivering citation tags to violators
or, in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation
of this title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred.
      2.   Such citation tags shall indicate briefly the charge, shall bear the
registration number of the vehicle and shall direct the violator to present the
tag at the police station or other designated place within ten (10) days, or
such other reasonable time as may be specified thereon.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall abridge the power to arrest any
violator, to take said person into custody or to file a complaint against any
violator at any time.
   B.   Numbering And Regulation Of Tags: The town board of trustees may
require that police officers use serially numbered citation tags furnished by
the town clerk, and said town board may also regulate the use and handling of
citation tags.
   C.   Failure To Respond To Citation; Complaint; Warrant:
      1.   If a violator of any provision of this title who has been given a
citation tag as provided above, fails to appear in accordance with the
instructions of such tag, the chief of police or an authorized agent shall send
a letter or other written notice to the owner of the vehicle involved,
informing said person of the violation, warning said person to appear and
directing that, in the event such letter or notice is disregarded for a period
of five (5) days, a complaint will be filed and a warrant of arrest issued;
provided, that nothing in this section shall abridge the power to file a
complaint prior to the expiration of such time.
      2.   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to
such person, or attached to a vehicle, the chief of police shall have a
complaint entered against such person before the municipal judge, and said
judge shall issue a warrant for said person's arrest. (1992 Code § 18-7)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 1-9-7 and
  1-9-8 of this code.
6-1-9: VEHICLE LICENSING; INSPECTION; SECURITY VERIFICATION:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to subsections C
through H of this section:
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state, as found in 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 7-600 et seq.
      OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed by law for
damages arising out of the operation or use of any motor vehicle not owned by
said person, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
      OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance:
      1.   Shall designate, by explicit description or by appropriate
reference, all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be
granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in this subsection, using an insured vehicle with the
express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from the
liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
law; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204.
      SECURITY: 1.    A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204.
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state board of property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma. Said form shall contain the
following minimum information:
      1.   Name and address of carrier;
      2.   Name and address where security may be verified, if other than
carrier;
      3.   Name of insured;
      4.   Notice that an owner's policy has been issued pursuant to compulsory
insurance law;
      5.   Year, make, and at least the last three (3) digits of VIN of each
insured vehicle (not required if owner's form states "fleet coverage");
      6.   Inclusive dates liability policy is in effect; and
      7.   A warning to the owner of state law requirements.
   B.   Vehicle License Required: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle of
any kind upon a street of the town, unless such vehicle is licensed and
displays a valid license plate thereon, as required by state law.
   C.   Security Verification Carried In Vehicle: The owner of a motor vehicle
registered in this state and operating said vehicle within the boundaries of
the town shall carry in such vehicle at all times a current owner's security
verification form (or an equivalent form which has been used by the state
department of public safety) listing the vehicle, which shall be produced by
any driver thereof, upon request, for inspection by any law enforcement officer
and, in case of a collision, the form shall be shown, upon request, to any
person affected by said collision.
   D.   Exceptions: The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form (or an equivalent form) from the state
department of public safety during operation of the vehicle and shall not be
required to surrender such form for vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of a business,
corporation or utility on the exterior, and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the state department of public
safety (which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy);
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the interstate commerce commission, or the Oklahoma corporation commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed, used motor vehicle dealer.
   E.   Operator To Carry Security Verification:
      1.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the corporate limits of the town,
carry either an operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a
carrier (provided the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon) or an
equivalent form issued by the state department of public safety, reflecting
liability coverage.
      2.   An owner's security verification form issued to the owner of a motor
vehicle may be used as an operator's security verification form by an operator
who is not the owner of the motor vehicle, if said operator is not excluded
from coverage on the motor vehicle liability insurance policy for the vehicle.
Any such exclusions from said policy shall be included on the owner's security
verification form.
      3.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form (or equivalent form) which has been issued
by the department, upon request of any peace officer of the town police
department, shall be guilty of an offense.
   F.   Sentence Suspended Or Deferred: A sentence imposed for any violation of
this section may be suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   G.   Dismissal Of Charge: Any person producing proof in court that a current
security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the
state department of public safety reflecting this liability coverage for such
person was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to
dismissal of such charge.
   H.   Action Of Court; Provide Abstract To State: Upon conviction, bond
forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court clerk shall forward an abstract
to the state department of public safety within ten (10) days, reflecting the
action taken by the court. (1992 Code § 18-153)
6-1-10: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Privileges Of Operators Of Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of a law
or ordinance, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm,
may exercise the following privileges:
         a.   Park or stand (irrespective of the provisions of this title);
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or sign (slowing down as may be
necessary for safe operation);
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits, so long as this action does not
endanger life or property; or
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specific directions.
      2.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible
and/or visual signals, except that an authorized emergency vehicle, operated as
a police vehicle, need not be equipped with, or display, a red light visible
from the front of the vehicle.
      3.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway, nor shall such provisions protect the
driver from the consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   B.   Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Emergency Vehicles: Upon the
immediate approach of any authorized emergency vehicle making required use of
audible and/or visual signals, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully
making use of an audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right of way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, or shall clear the roadway in the safest possible manner, and
shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle
has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer. (1992 Code §
18-8)
6-1-11: CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Close Streets: Town personnel, contractors or utility
companies, while repairing or improving the streets of the town, or when
installing, improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the
streets, are hereby authorized, subject to control by the town board of
trustees, to close any street, or section thereof, to traffic during such
activity and shall erect or cause to be erected, proper control devices and
barricades 1  to warn the public that such street has been closed to traffic.
   B.   Compliance By Drivers Required: When any street has been closed to
traffic under the provisions of subsection A of this section and traffic
control devices or barricades have been erected, it shall be unlawful for any
person to drive any vehicle under, over, around or through such traffic control
devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the closed area (except that the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such
construction, maintenance and repair, or to persons having their places of
residence or business within such closed area, who may travel through such area
at their own risk).
   C.   Warning Devices: Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any
street, utility line or facility is being performed, and the street is not
closed to traffic in accord with this section, the town personnel, contractor
or utility company concerned shall erect warning devices for the public. Every
person using such street shall obey such warning devices. (1992 Code § 18-156)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-5D-5 of this code.
6-1-12: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS:
   A.   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title,
except those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall
not apply to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged
in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair of
public utilities; provided, that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagmen.
   B.   The provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work. (1992 Code § 18-157; amd. 2005 Code)
6-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title,
performs any unlawful act as defined in this title, or fails to perform any act
required in this title shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in any amount not to exceed the limits established in
section
1-9-22 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1992 Code § 18-200)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Speed Regulations
6-2-2: Vehicle Accidents
6-2-3: Driving By Unauthorized Persons
6-2-4: Reckless Driving
6-2-5: Driving Under The Influence
6-2-6: Stopped School Bus
6-2-7: Driving On Sidewalks
6-2-8: Following Too Closely
6-2-9: Backing
6-2-10: Riding On Or Clinging To Vehicles
6-2-11: Dangerous Objects In Streets
6-2-12: Funeral Processions
6-2-13: Fire Apparatus; Fire Hose
6-2-14: Obstruction Of Driver's View
6-2-15: Mandatory Seat Belt Use
6-2-16: Child Passenger Restraint System
6-2-1: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Basic Rule: No person shall drive a vehicle on any street within the
corporate limits of the town at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or
prudent under the conditions then existing (including, among other things, the
condition of the vehicle, roadway, weather, visibility, amount of traffic,
presence of pedestrians and any obstruction of view).
   B.   Stopping Ability: No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a
speed greater than will permit a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   C.   Designated Speeds: No person shall drive any vehicle, except an
authorized emergency vehicle (as provided in this title), at a speed greater
than:
      1.   Twenty (20) miles an hour on any street adjacent to any school, or
in any school zone, between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four thirty o'clock
(4:30) P.M. on days when school is in session, unless otherwise posted. (1992
Code § 18-6)
      2.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on other streets and on streets
adjacent to schools at other times than that specified in subsection C1 of this
section, unless otherwise posted. (Ord. 217, 6-12-2003)
6-2-2: VEHICLE ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Accident Report Required:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to, or death of, any person, or damage to
any vehicle or other property to an apparent extent of more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00), shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to the
chief of police or to the police department.
      2.   Making out a written report of the accident in the police
department, as soon as practicable after the accident (to be forwarded to the
state department of public safety in accordance with state law), shall be
deemed compliance with this section.
   B.   Leaving Scene Of Accident: Leaving the scene of an accident, as defined
by current state law, shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the
town. (1992 Code § 18-11)
6-2-3: DRIVING BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
   A.   Driver's License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person who does
not have a valid driver's license, as required by state law, to operate a motor
vehicle within the corporate limits of the town.
   B.   Allowing Unlicensed Or Unauthorized Driver To Operate Vehicle:
      1.   It shall also be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit an
unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town.
      2.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to authorize, or
knowingly permit, any vehicle, owned by or under said person's control, to be
driven upon any of the streets or highways of the town, by any person who is
not authorized, under the laws of the state of Oklahoma, to operate such
vehicle. (1992 Code § 18-12)
6-2-4: RECKLESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle within the corporate
limits of the town in a careless, negligent or reckless manner, without regard
for the safety of persons, property or the lawful use of the streets. Such
person shall be guilty of reckless driving. (1992 Code § 18-13)
6-2-5: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotic drugs or other controlled dangerous substances to drive, or
be in actual physical control of, any vehicle within the corporate limits of
the town. (1992 Code § 18-14)
6-2-6: STOPPED SCHOOL BUS:
   A.   Passing Bus Prohibited: No person shall pass any "school bus" (as
defined by state law) when such bus is stopped for the purpose of discharging
or taking on passengers, and is displaying flashing red lights, as required by
state law.
   B.   Stop From Either Direction: All persons shall stop upon approaching a
stopped school bus (as described in subsection A of this section), regardless
of the direction of said approach. (1992 Code § 18-10)
6-2-7: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS:
The driver of any vehicle shall not drive upon any sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (1992 Code § 18-15)
6-2-8: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of any vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is
reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both vehicles and
the traffic upon, and the condition of, the roadway. (1992 Code § 18-16)
6-2-9: BACKING:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same a greater distance
than is necessary to permit it to enter the immediately available proper
driving lane. No extended backing shall be permitted. (1992 Code § 18-17)
6-2-10: RIDING ON OR CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
   A.   Riding On Vehicle: No person shall ride upon any vehicle or portion
thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   B.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, skateboard, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same to any
vehicle upon a roadway. (1992 Code § 18-158)
6-2-11: DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause to be placed, or let fall
and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick or
other thing which is likely to injure persons, damage property or render a
street unsafe for traffic. (1992 Code § 18-159)
6-2-12: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Between Vehicles In Procession: No driver of a vehicle shall
drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession
while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   B.   Exception; Intersections: This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or police
officers. (1992 Code § 18-160)
6-2-13: FIRE APPARATUS; FIRE HOSE:
   A.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle, other than when on
official business, shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500'), or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm. (1992 Code § 18-162)
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of any fire department when laid down on any street or private driveway to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire
department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department official in
command. (1992 Code § 18-163)
6-2-14: OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are, in the front seat, such a number of persons exceeding three (3) as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to
interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1992 Code § 18-164)
6-2-15: MANDATORY SEAT BELT USE:
   A.   Use Required:
      1.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated
in the town shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt
system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured
pursuant to 49 CFR section 571.208.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, "passenger car" shall mean
"vehicle" as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1102. "Passenger car"
shall include the passenger compartment of pickups, vans, minivans, and sport
utility vehicles. "Passenger car" shall not include trucks, truck tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles, or motorized bicycles. "Passenger car"
shall not include a vehicle used primarily for farm use which is registered and
licensed pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1134.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to any person who possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in this state that the person is unable
to wear a safety seat belt system for medical reasons. Provided, the issuance
of such verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor
shall such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or
otherwise, to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety
seat belt system.
      2.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle while
performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. postal service. (2005
Code)
6-2-16: CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Every driver, when transporting a child under six (6) years of age
in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of the town,
shall provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system. For purposes of this section, "child passenger
restraint system" means an infant or child passenger restraint system which
meets the federal standards as set by 49 CFR section 571.213.
      2.   Children at least six (6) years of age but younger than thirteen
(13) years of age shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint
system or a seat belt.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      3.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
      4.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable to
be placed in such devices;
      5.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than forty (40) pounds
and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a
lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this
subsection, "back seat" shall include all seats located behind the front seat
of a vehicle operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided
further, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the
weight requirements of this subsection if, at the request of any law
enforcement officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the
officer with a written statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that
the child weighs more than forty (40) pounds.
   C.   Authority To Stop Vehicle; Issue Warning: A law enforcement officer is
hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if it appears that the driver of the
vehicle has violated the provisions of this section and to give an oral warning
to said driver. The warning shall advise the driver of the possible danger to
children resulting from the failure to install or use a child passenger
restraint system or seat belts in the motor vehicle. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Installation And Maintenance
6-3-2: Compliance With State Specifications
6-3-3: Turn Signs And Indicators
6-3-4: Designation And Marking Of One-Way Streets
6-3-5: Marking Of Traffic Lanes
6-3-6: Designation And Marking Of Crosswalks
6-3-7: Unauthorized Signs Or Devices
6-3-8: Street Classification System
6-3-1: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE:
The town board of trustees shall have traffic control signs, signals and
devices placed and maintained, as required under the ordinances of the town to
make the provisions of such ordinances effective. (1992 Code § 18-70)
6-3-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE SPECIFICATIONS:
All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the Oklahoma state highway department. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the town. All
traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this title shall be official traffic control devices. (1992 Code §
18-71)
6-3-3: TURN SIGNS AND INDICATORS:
   A.   Town Board Authority: The town board of trustees is hereby authorized
to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right, left or U-turn, and shall have placed proper signs at such
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event, the same shall be
plainly indicated on said signs.
   B.   Compliance By Drivers: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
that no right, left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the directions of any such sign.
   C.   Right Turn On Red Permitted: Unless otherwise indicated by such signs,
a right turn on red or stop shall be permitted after the vehicle has come to a
complete stop. (1992 Code § 18-72)
   D.   U-Turns: U-turns shall be prohibited at all intersections and other
places within the town limits, except where specifically indicated or permitted
by proper signs. (Ord. 220, 7-10-2003)
6-3-4: DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF ONE-WAY STREETS:
Whenever the town board of trustees designates any street, alley or part
thereof as a one-way street or alley, said town board shall have signs placed,
giving notice thereof. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited. (1992 Code § 18-73)
6-3-5: MARKING OF TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   Town Board Authority: The town board of trustees is hereby authorized
to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where a regular
alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Compliance By Drivers: Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall
be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such
vehicle within the boundaries of any such lanes, except when lawfully parking
another vehicle, preparing to make a lawful turning movement or as otherwise
authorized by ordinance. (1992 Code § 18-74)
6-3-6: DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF CROSSWALKS:
The town board of trustees shall have the authority to designate, by
appropriate devices or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at
intersections or other places where, in its opinion, there is particular danger
to pedestrians crossing the roadway. (1992 Code § 18-75)
6-3-7: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS OR DEVICES:
   A.   Directing Movement Of Traffic: No person shall place, maintain or
display upon or in view of any highway, an unauthorized sign, signal, marking
or device which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official
traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, which projects any flashing or revolving beams of light,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   Commercial Advertising: No person shall place or maintain, nor shall
any public authority permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign, signal or
device bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   C.   Exception: This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the placement,
upon private property, of signs giving useful directional information and of a
type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Public Nuisance Declared; Town Removal: Every such prohibited sign,
signal, marking or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the
town board of trustees is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to
be removed. (1992 Code § 18-76)
6-3-8: STREET CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM:
   A.   Adoption Of System: The town board of trustees may adopt, by
resolution, a street classification system for the town. Whenever such a system
is adopted, it shall be the duty of said town board to have stop signs placed
and maintained, or if deemed more appropriate at any intersection, yield signs,
on each and every street involved in the implementation of the classification
system (unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic control signals).
   B.   Determine Hazardous Intersections: The town board of trustees is hereby
authorized to determine and designate intersections where a particular hazard
exists and to determine:
      1.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
      2.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection, in which event, it shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
   C.   Placement Of Signs: Every stop and yield sign shall be erected as near
as practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway. (1992 Code § 18-77)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
6-4-2: Angle Parking
6-4-3: Parallel Parking; Setting Brakes
6-4-4: Parking On Private Property; Truck Parking
6-4-5: Loading Zones
6-4-6: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
6-4-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   No Parking Places Enumerated: No person shall stop or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with state law, ordinance, the directions of a police officer or traffic
control device, or in an emergency situation, in any of the following places:
      1.   On any sidewalk or between the sidewalk and any street;
      2.   In front of, or obstructing, any public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant (except in an officially
marked parking space);
      5.   Within or on a crosswalk; (1992 Code § 18-90)
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway of any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy
five feet (75') of said entrance (when properly signposted); (1992 Code § 18-
90; amd. 2005 Code)
      7.   Near any street work or excavation, when stopping or parking would
obstruct traffic;
      8.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (double parking or double stopping);
      9.   In an alley where less than ten feet (10') of the roadway will be
left available for the movement of vehicular traffic; or
      10.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   Authority To Establish Parking Time Limits: The town board of trustees
is hereby authorized to establish parking time limits, and to prohibit parking
on designated streets and parts of streets by having appropriate signs placed
thereon.
   C.   Private Property; Areas For Physically Disabled Persons: It shall be
unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any parking space
on:
      1.   Private property accessible to the public and where the public is
invited; or
      2.   On public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of physically disabled persons, unless such
person has a physical disability insignia (consistent with the provisions of 47
Oklahoma Statutes) and such insignia is displayed as provided in said 47
Oklahoma Statutes (or other regulations adopted pursuant thereto). (1992 Code §
18-90)
6-4-2: ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Town Board Determination: The town board of trustees may determine upon
what streets and parts of streets, angle parking shall be permitted, and shall
have such streets marked or signed.
   B.   Compliance With Markings: On those streets which have been so signed or
marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at
the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
markings, or outside of the area enclosed by said markings. (1992 Code § 18-91)
6-4-3: PARALLEL PARKING; SETTING BRAKES:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to,
and within eighteen inches (18") of, the right hand curb; provided, that every
vehicle stopped or parked upon the left hand side of a one- way street where
there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels
parallel to, and within eighteen inches (18") of, the left hand curb.
   B.   Setting Brakes: Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles.
(1992 Code § 18-92)
6-4-4: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   Permission Required: It shall be unlawful to place or park a motor
vehicle or a trailer upon the posted private property of another without first
obtaining permission from the person in charge of such property, except where
said placing or parking is involuntary.
   B.   Removal From Property; Nonliability:
      1.   A landowner, or other person in charge of the land, may cause any
motor vehicle or trailer which is left on private property after posted hours
to be removed and impounded by an appropriate wrecker service.
      2.   The police department or any police officer is also authorized to
remove any unauthorized vehicles from private property upon direction of the
owner of the property or persons in charge of the property.
      3.   The town, or any landowner or person in charge of the property shall
not be liable for any damages which may occur to the trespassing vehicle or
trailer under the terms of this section, while the same is trespassing, while
it is being removed from said property or while it is in storage.
   C.   Truck Parking In Residential Areas: It shall be unlawful for any person
to park a truck or trailer over one ton capacity or being used for transport of
gasoline or liquefied petroleum gas on any street or alley in any residential
area of the town. (1992 Code § 18-93)
6-4-5: LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Town Board Determination: The town board of trustees is hereby
authorized to determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading
zones, and shall have appropriate signs placed indicating the same and stating
the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable. By the
same authority, such loading zones may be changed or discontinued.
   B.   Request For Loading Zone; Reimbursement To Town: When such a loading
zone is established upon the request of any person, firm or corporation, the
town board of trustees shall not have signs placed until the applicant has paid
to the town clerk an amount of money estimated by said town board to be
adequate to reimburse the town for all costs of establishing the signing of the
same.
   C.   Compliance Required: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for
any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and
delivery or pick up and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight
curb loading zone, during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones
are in effect. (1992 Code § 18-95)
6-4-6: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   Registered Owner Liable: In any prosecution charging a violation of any
law or ordinance governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any
such law or ordinance, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such
vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred.
   B.   Issuance Of Citation: The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only
when the procedure of giving a citation tag has been followed. (1992 Code § 18-
94)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
6-5-1: Proper Equipment Required
6-5-2: Inspection Of Vehicles
6-5-3: Injurious Vehicles; Hazardous Conditions
6-5-4: Size And Weight Of Vehicles; Truck Routes
6-5-5: Mufflers And Cutouts
6-5-6: Jakebraking Prohibited
6-5-1: PROPER EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which is not equipped as required by
law upon any street within the town. It shall also be unlawful to fail to use
such equipment in the manner required by law, use it in a manner prohibited by
law or to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon any
street within the town. (1992 Code § 18-153)
6-5-2: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the town at any time, with reasonable cause, to determine whether it
is safe, properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment
and repair. (1992 Code § 18-154)
6-5-3: INJURIOUS VEHICLES; HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injurious Vehicles Prohibited: No vehicle or object which injures, or
is likely to injure, any street within the town shall be driven or moved on any
street within the town.
   B.   Vehicle Causing Hazardous Condition: No person shall drive any vehicle
which is in such condition, so constructed or so loaded as to cause, or be
likely to cause, a delay in traffic or constitute a hazard to persons or
property. (1992 Code § 18-50; amd. 2005 Code)
6-5-4: SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Compliance With State Regulations; State Permit: No person shall drive
or convey through any street any vehicle, the width, height, length, weight or
load of which exceeds that authorized by state laws, except in accordance with
a permit issued by state authority.
   B.   Certain Vehicles Restricted: Except for the purpose of making local
deliveries, vehicles required by state statute to be licensed or permitted for
three (3) ton or greater capacity shall be prohibited from using any public
street, alley or place within the town for travel, except legally designated
truck routes or state and federal highways.
   C.   Designation Of Routes; Signs:
      1.   The town board of trustees may prescribe routes through the town for
the use of trucks and/or other vehicles, which are not ordinary private
passenger vehicles, passing through the town. When it is necessary for vehicles
of the class hereinabove described to travel to and from a location on any of
the town's public streets, alleys or places for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise, or the provision of necessary services at such location,
the route travelled shall be as short and direct as possible from and to the
most available, legally designated truck route or state or federal highway.
      2.   The town board of trustees shall see that appropriate and adequate
signs are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow
the routes. When such signs are erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been so prescribed, while passing through
the town, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom, except in
case of emergency. (1992 Code § 18-51)
6-5-5: MUFFLERS AND CUTOUTS:
No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the town unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler. No muffler, cutout, or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle, except that exhaust whistles may be used on
authorized emergency vehicles. (1992 Code § 18-52)
6-5-6: JAKEBRAKING PROHIBITED:
Jakebraking is prohibited upon all streets and highways within the town limits.
(Ord. 219, 7-10-2003)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES, MOTORIZED SCOOTERS AND MOTORCYCLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Traffic Laws Applicable To Bicycle Riders
6-6-2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
6-6-3: Riding On Bicycles
6-6-4: Bicycle Equipment
6-6-5: Operating Motorcycles
6-6-6: Motorized Scooters
6-6-1: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE TO BICYCLE RIDERS:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of this state declaring the rules of the road applicable to
vehicles, or by the ordinances of the town, applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and to those
provisions of state law or ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application. (1992 Code § 18-110)
6-6-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Compliance With Traffic Signals: Any person operating a bicycle shall
obey the instructions of official traffic control signals, signs and other
control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   B.   Turning Movements: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
that no right, left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall
disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from
the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey
the regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1992 Code § 18-112)
6-6-3: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Carrying Passengers: No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
a time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   B.   Riding On Right Side Of Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle upon
a roadway shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a vehicle standing or proceeding in the same
direction.
   C.   Use Of Bicycle Paths: Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been
provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and not the
roadway.
   D.   Speed: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   E.   Yield To Pedestrians Or Vehicles: The operator of a bicycle emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall yield the right of way to all
approaching pedestrians, and, upon entering a roadway, shall yield the right of
way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway.
   F.   Signs Prohibiting Riding Of Bicycles: The town board of trustees is
authorized to have signs placed on any sidewalk or trafficway prohibiting the
riding of bicycles thereon by any person. When such signs are in place, no
person shall disobey the same. (1992 Code § 18-113)
6-6-4: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from all distances, up to five hundred
feet (500') to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear, of a type which
shall be visible from all distances up to three hundred feet (300') to the
rear, when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor
vehicle. (1992 Code § 18-111)
6-6-5: OPERATING MOTORCYCLES:
A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or motor bicycle shall ride only
upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry any
other person, nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle, unless it is
designed to carry more than one person; in such event, a passenger may ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two (2) persons, or
upon another seat firmly attached to such vehicle at the rear or side of the
operator. (1992 Code § 18-155)
6-6-6: MOTORIZED SCOOTERS:
   A.   The operation of motorized electric scooters shall be allowed upon the
public streets and roadways within the municipal limits of the town, only as
follows:
      1.   Operators shall be eight (8) years of age or older;
      2.   Operation of same is restricted to the time period from one hour
after sunrise to official sunset;
      3.   Operators shall wear a protective helmet at all times;
      4.   Operation of said scooters shall be allowed only on streets or
roadways with a posted speed limit of twenty five miles per hour (25 mph) or
less; and
      5.   Operation of said scooters shall not be allowed on the following
streets: Carnegie Street; 4th Street; 100 block of West Main to 100 block of
East Main; 200 block of North Broadway to 300 block of South Broadway. (Ord.
230, 5-12-2005)
   B.   Said restrictions shall not apply to those motorized vehicles
specifically designed for handicapped mobility purposes. (Ord. 225, 5-13-2004)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Application Of Chapter
6-7-2: Right Of Way; Restrictions
6-7-3: Drivers Exercise Due Care
6-7-1: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals, but, at all other
places, shall be granted those rights and be subject to those restrictions in
this chapter. (1992 Code § 18-130)
6-7-2: RIGHT OF WAY; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Absence Of Traffic Control Signals: When traffic control signals are
not in place or in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of
way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing
the roadway within a crosswalk.
   B.   Pedestrian Restrictions: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave any place
of safety, or walk or run into the path of a vehicle.
   C.   Vehicle At Rear Of Stopped Vehicle: Whenever any vehicle is stopped at
a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a
pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (1992 Code §
18-131)
6-7-3: DRIVERS EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1992 Code § 18-132)
CHAPTER 8
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
6-8-1: Purpose And Effect Of Impoundment
6-8-2: Authority To Impound Vehicles
6-8-3: Place Of Impoundment
6-8-4: Duration Of Impoundment
6-8-5: Redemption And Release Of Vehicle
6-8-6: Causes Of Impoundment
6-8-7: Abandoned, Wrecked Or Nonoperating Vehicles
6-8-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Impoundment of vehicles under the authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety, welfare and safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares in the town from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (1992 Code § 18-30)
6-8-2: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
   A.   Police Authority To Impound: The chief of police of the town, and
members of the town police department, are hereby authorized, within the limits
set forth in this title, to impound vehicles under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated.
   B.   Proper Procedure: No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order
of an authorized police officer, and in strict adherence to the procedures
established in this chapter and other policies of the town. (1992 Code § 18-34)
6-8-3: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage, or other place of safekeeping designated by the
town board of trustees, and shall not be removed to any other place. (1992 Code
§ 18-31)
6-8-4: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Order For Release: Unless otherwise provided hereinafter, any vehicle
impounded under the provisions of this code shall be stored and held safely
until a written order for its release, signed by the chief of police (or a
designated representative), has been issued.
   B.   Conditions For Release: The written order for release shall be
conditioned upon:
      1.   Payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle, by the person to whom the release is issued; and
      2.   Payment of all fines and costs due the town because of traffic law
or other law violations involving the vehicle, or proper security posted for
said fine or law violation. (1992 Code § 18-32)
6-8-5: REDEMPTION AND RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Presentation Of Order; Payment Of Costs: The person holding the written
order for release shall be entitled to obtain possession of the vehicle upon
presentation of the order for release at the place of impoundment, together
with payment (or tender of payment) of all impoundment costs and accrued
storage charges due.
   B.   Release To Person Other Than Owner: The town clerk is hereby authorized
to release vehicles which have been impounded (and accept agreements and bonds
to save the town harmless by such releases) to persons other than the
registered owner of the vehicle.
   C.   Submit Proof Of Compliance: Any party claiming an interest in an
impounded vehicle shall submit (by written instruments or other documents), to
the town clerk and the chief of police, proof of compliance with the following
requirements:
      1.   Proof of interest; and
      2.   Agreement to save and hold harmless the town and all of its
employees. (1992 Code § 18-34)
6-8-6: CAUSES OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Disabled Vehicle: A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be
impounded, under the following circumstances:
      1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      2.   If left unattended longer than seventy two (72) hours on the
shoulder of any highway; or
      3.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   B.   Vehicle On Bridge, Other Areas: Any unattended vehicle left upon any
bridge, viaduct, causeway or within the structure of a grade separation, may be
impounded.
   C.   Arrest Of Driver: Whenever the driver, or person in charge, of any
vehicle is placed under arrest, taken into custody and detained by police under
circumstances which leave, or will leave, a vehicle unattended on any street or
highway, the vehicle may be impounded.
   D.   Illegally Parked Causing Hazard: A vehicle left unattended upon any
street, alley or thoroughfare, and so parked illegally as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic, shall be
impounded.
   E.   Derelict Vehicle: When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the police
department to have been parked upon any street in the town for a period of
seventy two (72) hours, or more, the police department is authorized to impound
the vehicle, and if the owner of the vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable
diligence, the owner shall be notified of the action by the police department.
   F.   Complaint Against Owner Of Trespassing Vehicle: A trespassing,
unattended vehicle may be impounded when the required complaint has been
properly made and filed. The owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a
complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the owner's (or legal
occupant's) property. If the identity of the person parking the vehicle is
unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the
vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining
party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is
parked or standing. Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe a violation has
occurred, the police department shall cause the vehicle to be impounded and
placed in storage.
   G.   Illegally Parked Vehicle: Any unattended vehicle parked at the street
curbing of any zone where parking is prohibited, and where official signs are
in place giving notice thereof in violation of the prohibition, may be
impounded.
   H.   Blocking Fire Escape, Hydrant: Any vehicle illegally parked in such a
manner that it blocks a fire escape, ladder or exit, or blocks ready access to
a fire hydrant, shall be impounded.
   I.   Street Intersection: Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any
street intersection shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection
with the person in charge of the vehicle being present shall be moved out of
the intersection and to the nearest available legal parking space at the street
curbing.
   J.   Stolen Vehicle: Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the
registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding eight
(8) hours, or cannot be determined from the registration papers or other
identification in the vehicle (or from records or information available from
reports of stolen cars), the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized
place of impoundment and the registered owner of the vehicle notified of the
location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police
department. If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make
arrangements for the removal of the vehicle within a period of twenty four (24)
hours from the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery. If the
owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified,
the vehicle may be impounded. (1992 Code § 18-35)
6-8-7: ABANDONED, WRECKED OR NONOPERATING VEHICLES:
   A.   Abandonment Prohibited; Nuisance: Except as otherwise provided, no
person shall abandon any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked
vehicle, nor leave such vehicle for such time, and under such conditions, as to
cause it to reasonably appear to have been abandoned, upon any private
property, dedicated street right of way or public easement. Vehicles so
abandoned or left shall constitute a public nuisance.
   B.   Exceptions: Persons excepted are those who maintain such vehicles:
      1.   In enclosed buildings;
      2.   On the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place
and manner, when such vehicles are necessary to the operation of said business;
or
      3.   In an appropriate storage facility or depository which is maintained
by or for the town.
   C.   Rebuttable Presumption: A rebuttable presumption exists that vehicles
have been abandoned when any one of the following conditions exists:
      1.   Weeds and/or grass undergrowth indicates to a reasonable person that
the vehicle has not been moved, thereby permitting such growth to occur; or
      2.   One or more wheels are flat or missing; or
      3.   Portions of the vehicle which are needed for its operation or
control are missing; or
      4.   Neighboring residents provide written statements as to the length of
time such vehicle has been standing in one place without removal, or statements
that parts are taken from, or added to, such vehicle, which would indicate a
salvage, garage or used parts operation; or (1992 Code § 18-36)
      5.   Evidence exists that provisions of this code pertaining to junk or
salvage yards are being violated; or
      6.   No current license tag is present or visible on the vehicle.
   D.   Authorized Officials: Appropriate town officials (including, but not
limited to, the mayor, the chief of police, the fire chief and the town clerk)
may remove and impound, or cause to be removed and impounded, those vehicles
which appear to be in violation of this section. (1992 Code § 18-36; amd. 2005
Code)
   E.   Notice To Registered Owner: Prior to the removal and impoundment of any
vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, or any of the appropriate methods
of nuisance abatement (see title 4, chapter 1 of this code), the appropriate
town officials shall attempt to notify, by certified mail, the registered owner
of such vehicle, stating that the vehicle appears to be in violation of this
chapter, and that the owner has forty eight (48) hours from the receipt of such
notice to remove the vehicle. Should the town officials be unable to serve
notice upon the owner, a notice containing similar provisions shall be affixed
to the abandoned vehicle instead, at least forty eight (48) hours prior to the
required time of compliance. (1992 Code § 18-36)
CHAPTER 9
MINI-BIKES, TRAIL BIKES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, GOLF CARTS, ETC.
SECTION:
6-9-1: Special Provisions
6-9-1: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV): Shall mean a vehicle powered by an internal
combustion engine manufactured and used exclusively for off-highway use
traveling on four (4) or more low pressure tires, and having a seat designed to
be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering.
      GOLF CART: Shall mean any four-wheeled internal combustible or electrical
vehicle that is powered by an electric motor that draws current from
rechargeable storage batteries or other sources of electrical current and whose
top speed is greater than twenty (20) miles per hour but not greater than
twenty five (25) miles per hour designed primarily for the operation on a
recreational golf course which is not registered with the State of Oklahoma.
      LOW-SPEED ELECTRICAL VEHICLE: Shall mean any four-wheeled electrical
vehicle that is powered by an electric motor that draws current from
rechargeable storage batteries or other sources of electrical current and whose
top speed is greater than twenty (20) miles per hour but not greater than
twenty five (25) miles per hour and is manufactured in compliance with the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration standards for low- speed
vehicles in 49 CFR 571-500.
      MAINTENANCE UTILITY VEHICLE: Shall mean a vehicle powered by either an
internal combustion engine or electrical vehicle that is powered by an electric
motor that draws current from rechargeable storage batteries or other sources
of electrical current and whose top speed is greater than twenty (20) miles per
hour but not greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour utilized for
transportation of government employees or equipment during routine maintenance
of government owned property or facilities.
      MINI-TRUCK: Shall mean a foreign-manufactured import or domestic-
manufactured vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine with a piston or
rotor displacement of one thousand cubic centimeters (1,000 cu cm) or less,
which is sixty seven inches (67") or less in width, with an unladen dry weight
of three thousand four hundred (3,400) pounds or less, traveling on four (4) or
more tires, having a top speed of approximately fifty five (55) miles per hour,
equipped with a bed or compartment for hauling, and having an enclosed
passenger cab.
      UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV): Shall mean a vehicle powered by an
internal combustion engine, manufactured and used exclusively for off-highway
use, equipped with seating for two (2) or more people and a steering wheel,
traveling on four (4) or more wheels.
   B.   Special Provisions, Utility Vehicles, Golf Carts, Etc.:
      1.   Notwithstanding the definitions of the terms "motor vehicle" and
"motorcycle," contained in the Motor Vehicle License and Registration Act,
title 47 Oklahoma Statutes 1975, section 562, motor-driven cycles, known and
commonly referred to as "mini- bikes", "trail bikes", all-terrain vehicles
(ATV) and other similar trade names, shall not be permitted to be operated on
the streets or highways of the Town of Carnegie.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall also apply to those motor-
driven or operated vehicles known as "go-karts" and power lawn mowers and other
motor vehicles which are manufactured principally for use off the streets and
highways. However, this shall not prohibit occasional necessary movement of
such golf carts, go-karts, power lawn mowers and other vehicles on streets, and
shall not prohibit the use of mini-bikes and trail bikes used by participants
in parades.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting farm
vehicles from using the streets or highways.
      4.   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles (UTV), side by side four-
wheelers and small vehicles commonly known as mini-trucks are prohibited from
operating on Federal and State highways and Town streets within the limits of
the Town of Carnegie except as follows:
         a.   When the UTV or golf cart is operated by a person sixteen (16)
years of age or older and possesses a valid operator license during the
daylight hours only. Daylight hours are determined to be one-half (1/2) hour
after sunrise and one-half (1/2) hour before sunset as listed by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
         b.   UTV and golf carts may operate on a Federal or State highway only
if making a perpendicular (90 degree) crossing of a Federal or State highway
located within the limits of the Town of Carnegie.
         c.   Every person operating a UTV or golf cart upon the street shall
be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this State declaring rules
of the road applicable to vehicles or by the Traffic Ordinances of this Town
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this
section and except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their
nature can have no application.
         d.   All such golf carts and UTVs while operating in the limits of the
Town of Carnegie shall have a Slow Moving Vehicle emblem which shall be affixed
to the rear portion of the aforementioned vehicle. Passengers under the age of
six (6) years old are restricted from riding upon such golf cart or UTV unless
the driver of the golf cart or UTV is twenty one (21) years of age or older.
         e.   All such golf carts and UTVs while operating in the limits of the
Town of Carnegie shall be restricted from operating on a street or highway with
a posted speed limit greater than forty (40) mph and shall not be driven at a
speed greater than thirty (30) mph. (Ord. 289, 7-12-2018)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
 
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Trees And Shrubbery
7-1-2: Rights-Of-Way And Easements
7-1-3: Obstructions
7-1-4: Drainage Of Polluting Substance
7-1-5: Penalty
7-1-1: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Trimming Required: The owner of any premises abutting on any street
shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the public right-of-way and on
any part of the premises adjacent to any street or alley, in such a manner that
the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage and
travel along any streets, sidewalks or alleys. When such premises are occupied
by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and
shrubbery in the same manner as herein required of the owner. Such trees and
shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or foliage shall not be
lower than twelve feet (12') above the roadway of a street or alley, nor lower
than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk. (Ord. 300, 6-13-2019)
   B.   Injuring Trees Or Shrubbery In Right-Of-Way: It shall be unlawful for
any person to injure any tree or shrubbery within any public right-of-way;
provided, that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal
of such trees and shrubbery.
   C.   Obstructing Sight Triangle 1 :
      1.   Any owner, lessee or occupant of any property abutting on any street
shall not allow any manmade or natural view obstruction at any corner
intersection, particularly within the "sight triangle". (1992 Code § 17-1; amd.
2005 Code)
      2.   For corner lots, regardless of land use, but not including those in
midblock siding on crosswalk rights-of-way, there shall be a sight triangle
dedicated with legs of thirty feet (30') from the point of intersection of the
corner lot lines along both property lines. However, if determined by the
appropriate Town official, there is an existing or future potential need, a
larger sight triangle may be required. All sight triangles shall be maintained
free of buildings, fences, appurtenances or other structures and vegetation
unless said structures or vegetation are less than two and one-half feet (21/
2') above grade of the roadway gutterline. (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-2-1A2 of this Code.
7-1-2: RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   Obstructing Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to obstruct or otherwise prevent access to, any publicly used
street, alley, easement or other Municipally owned property, whether platted or
unplatted; provided, that the Town may prevent or provide access to such
streets, alleys, easements and Municipally owned properties from time to time,
in the public interest.
   B.   Fencing Property; Easement Allowance: The Town Board of Trustees may
permit certain streets, alleys, easements and Town properties which are
dedicated, but not required for traffic or other public access or use, to be
fenced or otherwise made inaccessible to the public (as in the case of land
being farmed or grazed as a part of a larger field or pasture); provided, that
the Town Board or any of its officers or employees shall have the right of
ingress, egress and easement for the purpose of installing or maintaining
utilities, cleaning, grading, mowing or any other activity which is in the
public interest.
   C.   Inaccessible Property; Restrictions: Persons, companies, corporations
or individuals who have fenced in, or are farming or grazing dedicated, but
unopened, streets, alleys, easements or Municipally owned properties, as
permitted above, shall:
      1.   Not construct any building, structure, earthworks or ponds, nor in
any other way disturb the general grade and slope of the land;
      2.   Maintain the property so that no nuisance is created;
      3.   Immediately relinquish any rights presumed to be held concerning the
property, upon notice by the Town; and
      4.   Permit access to the property at any time when requested to do so by
a Town officer or employee.
   D.   Obstructing Dedicated Road Right-Of-Way: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to construct, erect, build, or cause to be
constructed, erected or built, any fence, of whatever height or material,
within any dedicated road right-of- way in the Town. (1992 Code § 17-2)
7-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Interference With Pedestrians Or Vehicles:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the
sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements or public rights-of-way of the Town, in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian or other lawful traffic
and parking thereon, or to interfere unduly with the purpose of said easement
or right-of-way. This section shall specifically include and prohibit the
riding or operating of bicycles and skateboards on the sidewalks of the
Downtown Business District within the Municipal limits of the Town and
consistent with subsection
6-6-3F of this Code the Town Board of Trustees is authorized to place signs on
the sidewalks of said streets prohibiting the riding or operating of bicycles
or skateboards thereon. Any violation of this section shall be deemed an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable consistent with the
penalty provisions established in section
1-9-22 of this Code. (Ord. 249, 12-11-2008; amd. Ord. 266, 1-10-2013)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask for money or any other
thing of value or to solicit using the spoken, written, or printed word, bodily
gestures, signs, or other means of communication for the purpose of obtaining
money or any other thing of value or to exchange or sell goods or services on
any public right-of-way at any intersection within the Municipal limits of the
Town of Carnegie, Oklahoma, or to use or obstruct the sidewalks, streets,
alleys, easements or public rights-of-way of the Town, in any manner so as to
interfere unduly with pedestrian or other lawful traffic and parking thereon,
or to interfere unduly with the purpose of said easement or right-of- way.
(Ord. 266, 1-10-2013)
   B.   Garbage Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to deposit, throw or sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parking
areas or sidewalks any paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt,
trash, crates, boxes or other refuse of any kind.
   C.   Hazardous Conditions On Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for the owner
or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the
sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become a hazard to
persons using the sidewalk.
   D.   Open Manhole Or Grating: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person to permit to be open or leave open any cellar door, manhole or grating
of any kind in or upon any street, sidewalk or alley of the Town.
   E.   Excavations; Permission Required; Guarding:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or
cutting in any street, sidewalk, alley or public grounds, or to remove any
earth or construction material therefrom, except where authorized to do so by
the Town Board of Trustees.
      2.   Excavations so authorized shall be properly guarded and protected to
prevent said excavations from being or becoming dangerous to life or limb.
   F.   Preventing Flow Of Water: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to obstruct any street, sidewalk, alley or drainage easement by
placing any approach, driveway or other obstruction or substance whatever that
will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water through the easement or into
the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutters. (1992 Code § 17-3)
7-1-4: DRAINAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any residence, business or industry to allow drainage
of a polluting substance (as defined by 82 Oklahoma Statutes section 1084.2, as
amended) into any street, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way of the Town.
(1992 Code § 17-4; amd. 2005 Code)
7-1-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Failure To Trim Trees; Notice Required: Any owner or occupant who
fails, refuses or neglects to trim trees and shrubbery as provided in section
7-1-1 of this chapter, after receiving ten (10) days' notice from the Chief of
Police to do so, shall be guilty of an offense.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this Code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1992 Code § 17-50)
CHAPTER 2
LIBRARY
SECTION:
7-2-1: Intent
7-2-2: Library Established
7-2-3: Librarian; Substitute Librarian
7-2-4: Library Board
7-2-1: INTENT:
It is the desire and intent of the Town Board of Trustees to provide a public
library service to the residents of the Town, for the benefit of the Town.
(2005 Code)
7-2-2: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
The Carnegie Public Library is hereby established. (2005 Code)
7-2-3: LIBRARIAN; SUBSTITUTE LIBRARIAN:
   A.   Appointment: The Librarian shall be hired by the Town Board of Trustees
from recommendations of the Library Board.
   B.   Qualifications; Applications Confidential:
      1.   The Librarian shall be selected on the basis of technical and
personal qualifications, and shall be responsible to the Library Board and the
Town Board of Trustees.
      2.   All applications for the job of Librarian shall be sent to the Town
Clerk and shall be kept strictly confidential and available to Library Board
and Town Board members only.
      3.   All applications will be reviewed by the Town Board of Trustees and
the selection made on the basis of qualifications and a ballot vote.
   C.   Probationary Period: The Librarian shall serve a probationary period of
one year.
   D.   Report To Library Board: The Librarian shall submit, at each regular
Library Board meeting, the number of books checked out, the number of new
readers, all correspondence received of importance, or anything of importance
regarding the Town Library.
   E.   Attend Workshops; Supply Information To Organizations: The Librarian
should attend workshops and sessions, whenever and wherever available, and
shall contact and inform groups or organizations of any special service
offered, or changes in procedure.
   F.   Keep List Of Books; Record Of Donations: The Librarian shall keep a
list of all books and bulletins, shall post said list on the bulletin board for
the benefit of readers, and shall also keep a record of all donations of books,
magazines, etc., for possible entry in the newspaper.
   G.   Substitute Librarian:
      1.   The person who assists the Librarian shall be called the Substitute
Librarian, and will be selected by the Librarian with the approval of the Town
Board of Trustees.
      2.   The Substitute Librarian shall be responsible to the Librarian and
carry out whatever the Librarian requires to be done. (1992 Code § 1-34; amd.
2005 Code)
7-2-4: LIBRARY BOARD:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created a Library Board for the Town.
(1992 Code § 1-44; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Membership; Compensation:
      1.   The Carnegie Public Library shall be governed by a Board of
Directors consisting of five (5) members at least three (3) of whom shall be
selected from residents of the Town of Carnegie and no more than two (2) of
whom may be selected from residents of the service area. (Ord. 242, 7-12-2007)
      2.   All Library Board Directors shall serve thereon without
compensation. (1992 Code § 1-44; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Terms; Vacancies:
      1.   Said board members shall hold office until death, resignation, or
removal by the Town Board of Trustees. (Ord. 295, 6-13-2019)
      2.   Vacancies in the Library Board of Directors shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments. (1992 Code § 1-44; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Removal: Any member of the Board of Directors may be removed by the
Town Board of Trustees for misconduct or neglect of duty.
   E.   Officers; Rules And Regulations:
      1.   Immediately after the initial appointment, the Board of Directors
shall meet and organize by electing one Director as President, one Director as
Secretary, and by electing such other officers as the board may deem necessary.
      2.   They shall adopt such rules and regulations for their own guidance
and for the governance and operation of the Town Library as may be expedient
and not inconsistent with this Code and the laws of Oklahoma, subject to
approval of the Mayor and the Board of Trustees of the Town. (1992 Code § 1-44)
   F.   General Duties:
      1.   The board shall recommend a suitable Librarian and assistants to the
Town Board of Trustees.
      2.   The board shall recommend an annual budget to the Town Board.
      3.   The board shall set the policy of the library, account for all funds
collected and placed to the credit of the library, and supervise and care for
the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set aside for the
library.
   G.   Finances; Disbursements:
      1.   All monies received by the Librarian from the operation of the
library, or otherwise, shall be paid by said Librarian to the Town Treasurer,
who shall deposit the same in a special account, separate and apart from other
monies in the Town Treasury, to be designated the "Library Fund". Such monies
shall be paid out only upon warrants authorized by the Town Board.
      2.   The Town Board shall have authority to establish a Petty Cash Fund,
not to exceed the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) at any one time, for use
in maintaining the library, which money shall be expended and fully accounted
for by the Librarian, on forms prescribed and authorized by the Town Board of
Trustees. (1992 Code § 1-44; amd. 2005 Code)
   H.   Annual Report To Town And State:
      1.   The Library Board of Directors shall make, on or before July 31 in
each year, an annual report to the Mayor and the Town Board of Trustees. Such
report shall include the condition of its funds as of June 30; the various sums
of monies and property received by the library and how such monies have been
expended; the budget for the coming year; how many books have been added and
loaned out; and the number of persons making use of the library during the
year.
      2.   A similar report shall be filed at that time with the Oklahoma
Department of Libraries, on State forms.
   I.   Annual Appropriation: The Mayor and the Town Board of Trustees shall
annually appropriate to the Library Board of Directors from funds available to
the Town, such monies as are deemed necessary to operate and maintain the
Carnegie Public Library for the education and cultural enrichment of the
citizens of the Town. (1992 Code § 1-44)
CHAPTER 3
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Control And Supervision By Town Board
7-3-2: Cemetery Property Defined
7-3-3: Acceptance Or Refusal Of Gifts
7-3-4: Approval Of Plans
7-3-5: Interments, Burial Plots And Grave Markers
7-3-6: Decorative Vegetation, Ornaments And Objects
7-3-7: Miscellaneous Restrictions
7-3-8: Regulations In Particular Sections Of Cemetery
7-3-9: Penalty
7-3-1: CONTROL AND SUPERVISION BY TOWN BOARD:
The Municipal cemetery shall be under the control and supervision of the Town
Board of Trustees. (1992 Code § 16-70)
7-3-2: CEMETERY PROPERTY DEFINED:
The term "cemetery property" shall include all cemeteries, streets, parking,
squares and areas of land within the management of the Town Board of Trustees;
and all buildings, structures improvements, seats, benches, fountains, walks,
drives, roads, trees, plants, herbages, flowers and other things thereon and
enclosures of the same; and all shade trees on streets or thoroughfares,
resting places, watering stations, or the like; and all connecting parkways and
roads or drives, walks, with all trees, shrubbery, vines, flowers and ornaments
of any description, or objects of interest or instruction; and all tools and
implements placed in or on any of such enclosures, ways, parkways, roads or
places; and said included terms shall be liberally construed. (1992 Code § 16-
73; amd. 2005 Code)
7-3-3: ACCEPTANCE OR REFUSAL OF GIFTS:
   A.   Bequests For Cemetery Improvement: Real and personal property may be
granted, bequeathed, devised or conveyed to the Town for the purpose of the
improvement or ornamentation of a Municipal cemetery or approaches, or for the
establishment or maintenance therein of monuments, statues, fountains or other
works of art, upon such trusts and conditions as may be prescribed by the
grantors or devisors thereof and accepted by the Town Board of Trustees.
   B.   Town Board Control: All property so devised, granted, bequeathed or
conveyed, and the rents, issues, profits and income thereof, shall be subject
to the management, direction and control of the Town Board of Trustees.
   C.   Authority To Refuse Gifts: The Town Board of Trustees shall not be
compelled to accept any gift or offer of land which, in its judgment, is
unsuitable for cemetery purposes, or the improvements of which would entail an
injudicious outlay. (1992 Code § 16-77; amd. 2005 Code)
7-3-4: APPROVAL OF PLANS:
All plans for new work or changes in any Municipal cemetery, parking area,
etc., of the Town shall be examined by a landscape architect, if any, in
charge, and his report and statement of advice shall be placed upon the records
of the Town Board of Trustees before the plans can be adopted or their
execution begun. (1992 Code § 16-78; amd. 2005 Code)
7-3-5: INTERMENTS, BURIAL PLOTS AND GRAVE MARKERS:
   A.   Interments; Burial Plots:
      1.   Signing Form In Clerk's Office: Any party wanting to make an
interment must first show evidence of this decision and authority, then sign a
form in the Town Clerk's Office. All documentation must be completed and any
fees must be paid at Town Hall prior to the locating of the space where the
interment will occur.
      2.   Plot Location Fee: The Town has a fee set of thirty five dollars
($35.00) for each staking or locating in the cemetery of a burial plot and a
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each staking or locating in the
cemetery for monument placements. Further, only one interment per space shall
be allowed.
   B.   Record Of Cemetery Activities; Permit: Any company desiring to set or
reset a stone, or open or close a grave, or for any reason entering the
cemetery with a truck and poles must obtain a permit from the Town Clerk so
that a note can be taken of this company's presence in the cemetery. A list of
such activity shall be kept in case of damages.
   C.   Burial Permit; Grave Opening Or Closing:
      1.   All burials within any Municipal cemetery shall include an outer box
constructed of concrete or steel.
      2.   The Town shall require twenty four (24) hours' notice by the owner
or his duly authorized representative before a grave is opened.
      3.   The owner of the lot shall be required to also give twenty four (24)
hours' notice to the Town if a person not of the owner's immediate family is to
be buried.
      4.   The sole right to open and close any grave is vested in the Town.
      5.   No person, firm or corporation shall open or close any grave without
obtaining a permit from the Town Clerk.
   D.   Property Rights Of Deceased Plot Owners: Property rights of deceased
plot owners will be held inalienable for the family or descendants.
   E.   Grave Markers:
      1.   A single grave marker shall be no larger than four feet (4') in
height and four feet (4') in width (4' x 4'). A double grave marker shall be no
larger than four feet (4') in height by eight feet (8') in width.
All other markers shall require written consent of the Town Board of Trustees.
      2.   The Town shall have the sole right to supervise the installation of
grave markers, and twenty four (24) hours' notice must be given to the Town
prior to the installation of any markers. (1992 Code § 16-74; amd. Res. 1999-7,
9-9-1999; 2005 Code; Ord. 239, 5-11-2006; Ord. 301, 6-13-2019; Ord. 308, 6-19-
2019)
   F.   Cremains:
      1.   All cremains being interred at the Carnegie Cemetery must be
documented at the Town Hall.
      2.   Fees for marking location for cremains burial must be paid at Town
Hall prior to interment.
      3.   All cremains are required to be placed in a container.
      4.   No more than two (2) cremains may be interred in one single cemetery
space.
      5.   No more than one cremains may be allowed with a casket burial in one
single cemetery space. (Ord. 308, 6-19-2019)
7-3-6: DECORATIVE VEGETATION, ORNAMENTS AND OBJECTS:
   A.   Planting Trees, Flowers Or Shrubs: Consent Required: No trees, plants,
flowers, shrubbery or vines shall be planted within the Municipal cemetery
without the written consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Improvements Or Structures: No curbs, fences, seats, benches, flag
poles or other improvements or structures of any kind shall be constructed or
placed within the Municipal cemetery without the written consent of the Board
of Trustees. (Res. 1999-7, 9-9-1999)
   C.   Statues: All statues and/or ornaments of any kind or description must
fit on the base of the upright or flat marker. (Ord. 308, 6-19-2019)
   D.   Flowers:
      1.   All cut or artificial flowers must be placed on top of the headstone
or in vases placed or affixed on the base of the headstone. (Res. 1999-7, 9-9-
1999)
      2.   All statues, ornaments, flowers or related decorations will only be
permitted on the ground within the seven (7) day period preceding and/or
following Memorial Day or the seven (7) day period following burial.
      3.   No flowers, ornaments or decorations of any kind or description
shall be placed on or around footstones or cornerstones. (Ord. 308, 6-19-2019)
   E.   Footstones, Cornerstones: All footstones and cornerstones shall be flat
and shall be no more than one inch (1") above dirt level. (Res. 1999-7, 9-9-
1999)
   F.   Rocks On Graves: No rocks, curbs or fencing shall be allowed in the
Carnegie Cemetery. (Ord. 308, 6-19-2019)
7-3-7: MISCELLANEOUS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Unattended Children: Unattended children under fourteen (14) years of
age shall not be permitted to loiter in the cemetery at any time. (1992 Code §
16-74)
   B.   Firearms: No firearms shall be allowed on the cemetery grounds, except
for military funeral purposes, when doing so in the line of duty, or as may be
permitted by the provisions of the Oklahoma Self-Defense Act. (Ord. 269, 4-10-
2014)
   C.   Do Not Mow Signs: There will be no Do Not Mow signs allowed at the
Carnegie Cemetery. All lots will be maintained by the Town of Carnegie or their
designated personnel. (Ord. 308, 6-19-2019)
7-3-8: REGULATIONS IN PARTICULAR SECTIONS OF CEMETERY:
   A.   Upright Monuments; Head And Foot Markers; Cornerstones: All upright
monuments to be set on odd numbered lots will be set on the west end of the
lot. All upright monuments to be set on even numbered lots will be set on the
east end of the lot. All upright monuments (if used) will then have the foot
marker at the opposite end from the upright monument. If no upright monument is
used, then the head marker may be placed at either end of the lot. All head and
foot markers will be set flat no higher than one inch (1") above the ground.
All upright markers are referred to as "upright markers" or "headstones" and
all flat markers are referred to as "flat markers" or "footstones" regardless
of being placed at the head or foot as designated. Absolutely no other markers
than those mentioned above shall be used. Cornerstones will be allowed on full
lots only. These may be set no more than one inch (1") above the ground.
   B.   Curbs; Grass: There will be no new curbs in sections A, B, C and D of
the cemetery without the written consent of the Board of Trustees. Only grass
may be planted on the lot. Curbs and rock in the Carnegie Cemetery sections 3,
4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 were allowed in the past and therefore are grandfathered in.
(Ord. 308, 6-19-2019)
   C.   Landscaping: All landscaping will be at the discretion of the Town
Board of Trustees.
   D.   Lots in sections A, B, C and D shall be twelve feet by twenty feet (12'
x 20').
   E.   Statuary: Statuaries are not allowed. (Ord. 195, 7-17-1994; amd. 2005
Code)
7-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-9-22 of this Code, and may be liable for any costs to repair damages caused
by such violation. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
HOSPITAL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Operational Control
7-4-1: OPERATIONAL CONTROL:
The Carnegie municipal hospital shall be under the control of the town board of
trustees and contracted to be operated by the Carnegie municipal hospital
authority. (1992 Code § 16-100; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
AIRPORT
SECTION:
7-5-1: Operational Control
7-5-2: Rules And Regulations
7-5-1: OPERATIONAL CONTROL:
The Carnegie Municipal Airport shall be under the operational control of the
Town Board of Trustees. (1992 Code § 16-120)
7-5-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lessees for commercial or non-commercial use of airport premises shall
be provided, and acknowledge receipt of, a copy of applicable ordinances, rules
and regulations and agree to abide by the same. Any violation of said
ordinances, rules and regulations as set out herein, or as may be amended from
time to time, shall constitute a breach and be grounds for termination of any
lease agreement.
   B.   Airport Manager, or his designated representative, shall have the right
to inspect the premises, both within and without buildings, at reasonable times
to insure compliance with lease agreements, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   C.   All buildings erected on the premises, unless approved otherwise by the
Town Board of Trustees, shall have the main door facing the runway.
   D.   All buildings must be of permanent structure and must be so constructed
as to withstand seventy five (75) mile per hour winds. If sheet iron is used
for the outside covering of the structure, it must be new material and must
meet approval of the Airport Manager. Plans for any new structures must be
submitted for approval to the Town Board of Trustees who will further insure
that any proposed construction or alteration is submitted on a form designated
by the Administrator of the FAA to the appropriate FAA office for air spacing
determination.
   E.   The electrical wiring of any structure to be erected on the premises
shall be the responsibility of the lessee(s) and must be installed in conduit.
   F.   Lessee(s) will be required to keep the premises let free to trash,
rubbish and shall keep the same mowed and neat in appearance. No toxic or
dangerous chemicals or substances shall be allowed to be handled or stored on
the premises or in any structure erected on the premises. In that regard those
substances presently restricted by ordinance(s), rules and regulations for
airport use, or limited thereby, are specifically prohibited.
   G.   Should any lease be other than for premises upon which an existing
structure/hangar is situated, lessee(s) shall pursue the construction of an
approved building to be used as an airplane hangar in good faith. If said
construction is not completed within one hundred twenty (120) days from the
date thereof, any lease agreement shall automatically terminate and become null
and void.
   H.   Lease agreements shall be subject to all present and future ordinance
(s), rules and regulations, as may be adopted or amended by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   I.   All structures/hangars now existing, or to be hereinafter constructed,
are to be used for storage of aircraft only, unless otherwise provided in any
previously executed Bill of Sale. (Ord. 283, 12-10-2015)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
 
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Municipal Utility Systems
8-1-2: Use Of Utility Systems
8-1-3: Operation Of Utility Systems
8-1-4: Turning On Utilities
8-1-5: Delinquencies; Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-6: Customer Responsibility
8-1-7: Nonliability Of Town For Utility Interruption
8-1-8: Right Of Entry For Inspection
8-1-9: Interference With Hydrants; Damaging Utility System
8-1-10: Penalty
8-1-1: MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Services Provided By Town: The town provides water, sewer and solid
waste services for the residents of the town.
   B.   Operation Through Public Works Authority; Exception:
      1.   Water and sewer services are operated through the Carnegie public
works authority, a municipal trust of which the town is the beneficiary. Said
trust shall have control over the operation, maintenance and administration of
said systems and services.
      2.   Solid waste collection and disposal is the responsibility of the
town. (1992 Code § 16-1)
8-1-2: USE OF UTILITY SYSTEMS:
Every residential inhabitant within the corporate limits of the town, and every
commercial or business entity or enterprise who may practically do so, shall
secure all of its potable water requirements from the water system owned by the
town and leased to the Carnegie public works authority; connect to the sanitary
sewer system owned by the town and leased to said authority, and not otherwise
dispose of sewage, unless it is impossible or not feasible to do so; and
utilize the municipal solid waste collection and disposal system, unless it is
impossible or not feasible to do so. (1992 Code § 16-2)
8-1-3: OPERATION OF UTILITY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Water And Sewer Systems: The operations of the municipal water and
sewer systems shall be the responsibility of the Carnegie public works
authority. Said authority shall have the power to establish fees, rates,
deposits, charges and such other rules and regulations as may be necessary for
the efficient operation of these systems.
   B.   Solid Waste Collection And Disposal System: The operator of the
municipal solid waste collection and disposal system shall be the board of
trustees of the town. Said board shall have the authority to establish fees,
charges and operational procedures and regulations as may be necessary for
efficient operation of the system, and to ensure continued operation of the
Carnegie public works authority, or any other trust of which the town is a
member, participant or beneficiary.
   C.   Combining Of Administrative Processes: Administrative processes for all
systems may be combined for more efficient operation, at the discretion of the
town board of trustees and the Carnegie public works authority board.
   D.   Effect Of Ordinances: Ordinances relating to these municipal utility
systems shall be applicable, whenever possible, to all municipal utility
systems, including those operated by the public works authority. (1992 Code §
16-3)
8-1-4: TURNING ON UTILITIES:
   A.   Permission Required; Payment Of Deposits And Charges:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn a utility on to any
premises from any municipal utility system without written permission of the
town clerk.
      2.   Utilities shall not be turned on until any and all deposits and
charges have been paid.
      3.   The town clerk shall see that the utility is turned on when all
requirements for service have been complied with.
   B.   Turning Back On, Permission From Clerk: When a utility has been turned
off by town personnel, it shall not be turned on again without written
permission of the town clerk. (1992 Code § 16-140)
8-1-5: DELINQUENCIES; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Additional Services; Payment Of Bills And Charges: A person owing
delinquent municipal utility bills or other charges in connection with any
municipal utility system shall not be extended additional services until such
bills and charges have been paid.
   B.   Reasons For Turning Off: Utilities may be cut off and service
discontinued for any of the following reasons: (1992 Code § 16-141)
      1.   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to any municipal
utility or service system, or violation of any ordinance provision or any
provision of a code adopted by reference, relating to water and sanitary
plumbing installations; or (1992 Code § 16-141; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge made in
connection with the municipal utility system by the time specified by
ordinance.
   C.   Jeopardizing Public Health; Public Nuisance: A particular service may
be cut off for any act or omission in regard to the abuse of another municipal
system or service, which jeopardizes the public health or safety, creates a
public nuisance, or interferes with the rights of others.
   D.   Right To Shut Off Water: The town reserves the right to cut off or
reduce any utility or service to any customer when necessary to conserve water,
to protect life or property, or to repair or improve the municipal utility
system. (1992 Code § 16-141)
8-1-6: CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY:
All customers using any municipal utilities systems shall keep their service
pipes and other apparatus in good repair and in proper operation, and shall not
unnecessarily waste water nor contribute to unsanitary conditions. (1992 Code §
16-142)
8-1-7: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN FOR UTILITY INTERRUPTION:
The town shall not be responsible for any damages due to stoppage or
interruption of any utility or service. (1992 Code § 16-143)
8-1-8: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
Personnel in the service of the town may enter any private premises served by
municipal utilities at any reasonable time, and inspect the pipes, fixtures
and/or wiring on the premises. (1992 Code § 16-144)
8-1-9: INTERFERENCE WITH HYDRANTS; DAMAGING UTILITY SYSTEM:
   A.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized, to
open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with, any fire hydrant belonging to the town.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct
access to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or
other thing.
   B.   Tampering With Equipment Of Utility Systems: It shall be unlawful for
any person to damage, destroy or tamper with any pipes, lines, meters or other
equipment or property which is a part of a municipal utility system. (1992 Code
§ 16-145)
8-1-10: PENALTY:
Every person who violates any provision of this title, or maintains or permits
to continue any situation defined by this title as unlawful, shall be guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any amount not to
exceed the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (1992 Code § 16-200)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Mandatory Use Of Water System
8-2-2: Water Rates, Fees And Charges; Payment Of Bills
8-2-3: Injuring Water System
8-2-4: Penalty
8-2-1: MANDATORY USE OF WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Connection Required; Multiple Structures: The owners of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, education,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the Town, and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of- way in which there is now located, or may in the
future be located, a Municipal water line, are hereby required, at their
expense, to connect their facility with the proper Municipal water line (in
accordance with all Municipal requirements) and pay all Municipal fees and use
charges; provided, that the Municipal water line is within three hundred feet
(300') of the property line. Provided further, that in the event more than one
structure used for human occupancy exists on a lot, or adjacent and contiguous
lots under common ownership, and said structures were prior to this date
connected to the same water line, then the charge therefor shall be based upon
one minimum rate, or actual water usage, whichever is greater, billable to, and
payable by, that party to whom the meter is assigned. (Ord. 216, 11-14-2002)
   B.   Private Water Wells:
      1.   Connection To Municipal Water Required: It shall be hereafter
unlawful for any person to maintain or establish a private water well to serve
any residence or facility of any kind unless that person maintaining, or
drilling or establishing, same shall first be connected to the Municipal water
system and pay the monthly water fees and charges; provided, that any person
seeking to drill or establish such a private water well after the effective
date of this subsection shall first make application to the Board of Trustees
through the Town Clerk; pay an application fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00) per well; and execute a written agreement as follows, to wit: a) that
the person meets all mandatory hookup requirements as provided by this section;
b) that the well meets or will meet, any and all local, County, or State Health
Department requirements; c) that there will be no resale of water obtained from
the well; d) that water from the well will not be used for any commercial
purpose and will be used only by the individual property owner drilling same;
e) that water from the well will not be used for human consumption; and f) that
there will be no cross-connections to any component of the Town's water system
including any water lines on private property which are connected to the Town's
water system. (Ord. 246, 3-13-2008)
      2.   Exception: Where a Municipal water line does not lie within three
hundred feet (300') of the property line, or is not scheduled to be placed
within three hundred feet (300') of the property line in the near future (1 to
5 years), an individual may utilize or establish a private water well without
connection to the Municipal water system, and therefore, without payment of the
Municipal water system fees and charges.
   C.   Application For Connection; Payment Of Fee: No unauthorized person
shall make any connections with any Municipal water line without first having
made application therefor to the Town Clerk, and without first having paid the
established fee.
   D.   Rural Water District: The requirements of this section shall not apply
to persons currently being served directly by an existing Rural Water District.
(1992 Code § 16-10)
8-2-2: WATER RATES, FEES AND CHARGES; PAYMENT OF BILLS:
   A.   Rates Imposed:
      1.   Within Town Limits: The following rates shall be in effect for the
water service provided by the Carnegie Public Works Authority for residents and
businesses located within the Town limits:
 
First 1,000 gallons    $12.25 (minimum)
1,001 to 2,000 gallons $2.75 per 1,000 gallons
2,001 to 3,000 gallons $3.25 per 1,000 gallons
3,001 to 4,000 gallons $4.25 per 1,000 gallons
All over 4,000 gallons $5.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
      2.   Outside Town Limits: The following rates shall be in effect for the
water service provided by the Carnegie Public Works Authority for residents and
businesses located outside the Town limits:
 
First 1,000 gallons    $24.50 (minimum)
1,001 to 2,000 gallons $2.75 per 1,000 gallons
2,001 to 3,000 gallons $3.25 per 1,000 gallons
3,001 to 4,000 gallons $4.25 per 1,000 gallons
All over 4,000 gallons $5.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 287, 1-11-2018)
   B.   Water Deposit Required:
      1.   Fees Imposed: Deposits for water service shall be:
 
Residential service                                $75.00 (minimum)
Business, commercial or rental residential service 100.00 (minimum)
 
      2.   Refund: Deposits shall be refunded in full if there have been no
late payments for a minimum of one year after posting. Deposits are required to
be reposted in the above referenced amounts upon first late payment after
refund, irrespective of the amount of said refund. (Ord. 214, 6-13-2002)
   C.   Due Date; Delinquencies; Reconnection Fee:
      1.   Water service payments shall be due on the tenth of each month.
      2.   Notices shall be sent by the fifteenth of the next month and service
disconnected if overdue amounts are not paid within seven (7) days of this
notice. (Ord. 218, 7-10-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   A fee of seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) shall be added to all
accounts not paid by said notification date. After water service is
disconnected, a reconnect fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) will be assessed.
Before service will be reestablished, all fees assessed and the full amount due
on said account must be paid in full. (Ord. 302, 6-13-2019)
8-2-3: INJURING WATER SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface, or in any way tamper
with, any portion of the Municipal water system, or to turn the water off or
on, or to use water from any main from said system at any time or place, unless
said person is duly authorized so to do by the Carnegie Public Works Authority.
(Ord. 211, 9-11-2001)
8-2-4: PENALTY:
See section
8-1-10 of this title for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
ARTICLE A.  WELLHEAD PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Short Title And Purpose
8-2A-2: Definitions
8-2A-3: Wellhead Protection Zone
8-2A-4: Permitted Uses
8-2A-5: Prohibited Uses
8-2A-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This article shall be known as the WELLHEAD PROTECTION
ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to ensure the provision of a
safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the town by establishment of
wellhead protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the
supply sources for the Carnegie water system and by the designation and
regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such
zones. (Ord. 213, 4-11-2002, eff. 4-11-2002)
8-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material which, because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in serious
irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when not properly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over "hazardous
waste" as defined herein.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord. 213, 4-11-2002, eff. 4-11-2002)
8-2A-3: WELLHEAD PROTECTION ZONE:
   A.   Zone Established: There is hereby established a use district to be
known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as all the area
within a circle the center of which is the center of any town water supply
wellhead and the radius of which is one thousand three hundred twenty feet
(1,320'), or any part thereof over which the town has jurisdiction.
   B.   Administration: The policies and procedures for administration of any
wellhead zone established under this article, including, without limitation,
those applicable to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties,
shall be the denial or termination of services to any customer or potential
customer in violation of this article until all said violations have been
satisfactorily eliminated. (Ord. 213, 4-11-2002, eff. 4-11-2002)
8-2A-4: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted within wellhead protection zones:
Any use permitted within existing agricultural, single- family residential,
multi-family residential, and commercial areas so long as uses conform to the
rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies. (Ord. 213, 4-11-2002, eff. 4-
11-2002; amd. 2005 Code)
8-2A-5: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
wellhead protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise
be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section
8-2A-4 of this article, unless such uses are approved or permitted by state and
federal regulatory agencies:
   A.   Surface use or storage of hazardous material, including commercial use
of agricultural pesticides.
   B.   Septic tanks or drain fields appurtenant thereto.
   C.   Impervious surfaces other than roofs of buildings and streets, parking
lots, driveways and walks serving buildings permitted under section
8-2A-4 of this article.
   D.   Sanitary landfills.
   E.   Hazardous waste disposal sites.
   F.   Storm water infiltration basins.
   G.   Underground storage tanks.
   H.   Sanitary sewer lines within one hundred feet (100') of a wellhead.
(Ord. 213, 4-11-2002, eff. 4-11-2002)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: Compliance With Regulations
8-3-2: Mandatory Sewer Connections
8-3-3: Sewer Rates
8-3-4: Private Sewage Disposal Facilities
8-3-5: Industrial Wastes
8-3-6: Penalty
8-3-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any connection
to the Municipal sewer system without first complying with all applicable
provisions of this Code and all requirements of the Carnegie Public Works
Authority. (1992 Code § 16-20)
8-3-2: MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Connection Required; Time Limit: The owners of all houses, buildings or
property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes,
situated within the corporate limits of the Town and abutting on any street,
alley or right-of- way in which there is located a public sanitary sewer of the
Town, are hereby required, at their own expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to have such facilities connected directly with the
proper public sewer within one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
official Town notice to do so; provided, that such public sewer is within three
hundred feet (300') of the property line. Any owner, or resident, of any of the
above described properties installing new or replacement sewer lines which are
connected, or to be connected, to the public sewer system of the Town are
required to install and maintain a check valve on any such new or replacement
sewer line. (Ord. 265, 9-13-2012)
   B.   Serving Of Notice: Said notice, as provided for in subsection A of this
section, shall be served by any designated agent of the Town by delivering a
true and correct copy to the property owner, or leaving the same at said
person's usual place of residence with a member of the family over the age of
fifteen (15) years, or if such owner cannot be found, by posting a copy of such
notice at the front entrance of the building involved.
   C.   Failure To Comply; Discontinuance Of Water Service:
      1.   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the
terms of this section after having been notified so to do, as provided herein,
shall be guilty of an offense.
      2.   In the event of a continuous violation of this section by any
property owner, the Town may discontinue the furnishing of water to such
property owner, until such time as a proper sewer connection has been made.
(1992 Code § 16-21)
8-3-3: SEWER RATES:
   A.   Rates Imposed:
      1.   Within Town Limits: The following rates shall be in effect for the
sewer service provided by the Carnegie Public Works Authority for residents and
businesses located within the Town limits:
 
First 1,000 gallons of water usage    $8.75 (minimum)
1,001 to 2,000 gallons of water usage $0.50 per 1,000 gallons
2,001 to 3,000 gallons of water usage $0.75 per 1,000 gallons
3,001 to 4,000 gallons of water usage $1.00 per 1,000 gallons
All over 4,000 gallons of water usage $1.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
      2.   Outside Town Limits: The following rates shall be in effect for the
sewer service provided by the Carnegie Public Works Authority for residents and
businesses located outside the Town limits:
 
First 1,000 gallons of water usage    $17.50 (minimum)
1,001 to 2,000 gallons of water usage $0.50 per 1,000 gallons
2,001 to 3,000 gallons of water usage $0.75 per 1,000 gallons
3,001 to 4,000 gallons of water usage $1.00 per 1,000 gallons
All over 4,000 gallons of water usage $1.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 288, 1-11-2018)
8-3-4: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Privies, Septic Tanks Prohibited; Exception: Except as hereinafter
provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended to be used for the disposal of sewage, within the corporate limits of
the Town.
   B.   Private Disposal System; County And State Requirements:
      1.   Where a connection to a public sanitary sewer line is not required
under the provisions of section
8-3-2 of this chapter, a private septic tank or cesspool facility for sewage
disposal may be constructed and maintained; provided, that it is constructed
and maintained under the rules and regulations of the local and County Health
Officer, and in compliance with the recommendations and requirements of the
Oklahoma State Department of Health.
      2.   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
public sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Maintenance In Sanitary Condition: The owners of private septic tanks
or cesspools shall operate and maintain the same in a sanitary manner at all
times, at no expense to the Town, and no statement contained in this chapter
shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be
imposed by the local, County or State Health Officers.
   D.   Connection When Public Sewer Available; Abandonment Of Septic Tank: At
such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a septic
tank, a direct connection shall be made to such public sewer in compliance with
section
8-3-2 of this chapter, and the septic tank shall immediately be abandoned and
filled with suitable material. (1992 Code § 16-22; amd. 2005 Code)
8-3-5: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
   A.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   No person may discharge to a public sewer any waste which by itself
or by interaction with other wastes may:
         a.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities; or
         b.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
         c.   Create a hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater
treatment plant effluent.
      2.   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer shall be prohibited.
      3.   It is the intention of the Town to regulate present and future
industrial wastewater which might be discharged by a user of the facilities.
Wastewater introduced into the facilities shall contain no toxic or other
pollutants in amounts or concentrations that endanger public safety or the
physical integrity of the treatment works, or cause violation of effluent or
water quality limitations, or preclude the use of the most cost effective
wastewater treatment and sludge disposal system. (1992 Code § 16-160)
   B.   New Sewers And Connections:
      1.   The connection of all building sewers into the public sewer lines
shall conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes adopted
by, and the other applicable rules and regulations of, the Town.
      2.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements and regulations of the Oklahoma State
Department of Health. (1992 Code § 16-161)
   C.   Toxic Pollutants Charges: Any user that discharges any toxic pollutants
which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of
the treatment works shall pay for such increased costs. (1992 Code § 16-162)
   D.   Charges For Extraneous Flows: The costs of operation and maintenance
for all flows not directly attributable to users (such as infiltration/flow)
shall be distributed among users on the same basis as operation and maintenance
charges. (1992 Code § 16-163)
8-3-6: PENALTY:
See section
8-1-10 of this title for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
ARTICLE A.  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Interceptors Required; Exceptions
8-3A-2: Requirements And Restrictions
8-3A-3: Right Of Entry For Inspection
8-3A-4: Notice Of Violation; Remedial Action
8-3A-5: Penalty
8-3A-1: INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Required For Certain Businesses:
      1.   A grease interceptor shall be installed in the waste line leading
from sinks, drains or other fixtures in restaurants, hotel kitchens, cafeterias
and food processing establishments, and in any bar, lounge, private club or
fountain where food is prepared or served, or where dishes, glasses, pots, pans
or other kitchenwares are washed, or any other establishment where grease or
broken glass can be introduced into the drainage system in quantities that can
effect line stoppage or hinder sewage disposal.
      2.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other ingredients harmful to the building's drainage
system, the public sewer or the municipal sewage treatment plant.
   B.   Residential Units Excepted: Interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or residential dwelling units. (1992 Code § 4-134)
8-3A-2: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Type, Capacity, Location, Inspection:
      1.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as defined in the
town's current adopted plumbing code and shall be approved by the building
inspector.
      2.   All interceptors shall be located so as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      3.   Such interceptors shall be properly inspected following
construction, by the building inspector, and shall be privately maintained, at
the owner's expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   B.   Oil Separators: An oil separator shall be installed in the drainage
system of any establishment where, in the judgment of the building inspector, a
hazard exists or where oils or other flammables can be introduced or admitted
into the public sewer by accident or otherwise.
   C.   Garages, Filling Stations: All garages, filling stations and car washes
having car wash racks or facilities shall install combination grit and grease
interceptors.
   D.   Commercial Laundries: All commercial laundries shall be equipped with
an interceptor having a removable wire basket or similar device that will
prevent strings, rags, buttons or other materials detrimental to the municipal
sewer system from passing into the drainage system.
   E.   Bottling Plants: Bottling plants shall discharge all processed wastes
into an interceptor which will provide for the separation of broken glass or
other solids, before discharging liquid wastes into the municipal sewer or
storm drainage systems.
   F.   Slaughterhouses: Slaughterhouses shall equip all slaughtering room
drains with a separator which shall prevent the discharge of feathers, entrails
and other material likely to clog the drainage system. (1992 Code § 4-134)
   G.   Installation Requirement, Time Limit: Establishments covered under
subsection B of this section will be handled on a case by case basis to
determine whether an oil separator is required. All establishments covered
under section
8-3A-1 of this article, constructed henceforth, shall include an approved
interceptor. (1992 Code § 4-134; amd. 2005 Code)
8-3A-3: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
The building inspector or mayor shall have the right of entry during usual
business hours, to conduct an inspection of an interceptor or separator. (1992
Code § 4-134; amd. 2005 Code)
8-3A-4: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REMEDIAL ACTION:
   A.   Serving Of Notice; Contents Of Notice: Any person found to be in
violation of this article shall be served with written notice stating the
violation and providing seventy two (72) hours for the satisfactory correction
thereof.
   B.   Cease Violation: The offender shall, within the period of time stated
in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   C.   Subsequent Violations: In the event an establishment is cited with a
second violation within six (6) months of the first, the time allowed for
correction shall be reduced to forty eight (48) hours. A third citation within
six (6) months from the first violation will be cause for the town to
immediately discontinue water service to the establishment, during which time
the offender shall correct the violation. (1992 Code § 4-134)
8-3A-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limits provided for
in section
8-3A-4 of this article, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (1992 Code § 4-134)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-4-1: Municipal Function
8-4-2: Purpose
8-4-3: Definitions
8-4-4: Charges For Collection And Disposition
8-4-5: Garbage Receptacle Requirements
8-4-6: Accumulation A Nuisance; Containers
8-4-7: Burning Of Solid Waste
8-4-8: Disposal Of Solid Waste By Nonresidents
8-4-9: Penalty
8-4-1: MUNICIPAL FUNCTION:
The collection and disposal of garbage, trash and refuse and other solid waste
is hereby declared to be a municipal function of the town, as a protection of
the public health. The police powers of the town shall be invoked when
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter. In addition, the town may
collect and dispose of refuse, as it deems necessary; provided, that such
disposal shall be an approved method of incineration (not open burning) or by
landfill and daily cover. (1992 Code § 16-30)
8-4-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter and it is hereby declared to be the policy of
the town, pursuant to the authority of the Oklahoma solid waste management act
1  to regulate the collection and disposal of solid waste in a manner that will
protect the public health and welfare, prevent air and water pollution, prevent
the spread of disease and the creation of nuisances, conserve the natural
resources, and enhance and preserve the beauty and quality of the community's
environment. (1992 Code § 16-31; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 27A OS § 2-10-101 et seq.
8-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
REFUSE: Tree trimmings, junked building and roofing materials, manufacturing
waste, rocks, dirt and other waste material not defined as "solid waste" or
"trash".
SOLID WASTE: Shall include all putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid
or semisolid form, including, but not limited to, garbage, refuse, rubbish,
ashes or incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes, solid or semisolid commercial and industrial wastes and
hazardous wastes (including explosives, pathological wastes, chemical wastes,
herbicide and pesticide wastes).
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: The entire process of storage, collection,
transportation, processing and burying solid waste at or in a site approved by
the state department of environmental quality.
TRASH: Paper, rags, containers or paper, tin cans, yard and house sweepings and
all other household waste, but not tree trimmings, building and manufacturing
waste, sewage and rocks, raw dirt, rainwater and other liquid refuse properly
disposable through the sanitary sewers of the town. (1992 Code § 16-32; amd.
2005 Code)
8-4-4: CHARGES FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION:
For the purpose of supporting the operation of the Carnegie authority, of which
the town is a part, pursuant to the authority of the Oklahoma solid waste
management act, there is hereby levied and assessed rates and charges against
every owner, occupant or person in charge of any dwelling unit, business,
motel, hotel, boarding house, industrial or institutional user unit within or
without the town limits as they currently exist, or as they might from time to
time be changed according to law. Rates and charges shall be as set by the
board of trustees. (Ord. 200, 4-4-1996; amd. 2005 Code)
8-4-5: GARBAGE RECEPTACLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Regulations For The Use Of Polycarts (If Available):
      1.   All residents will be required to use polycarts if on an established
polycart pickup route. No trash will be picked up that is placed in cans,
barrels or on the ground.
      2.   Each such residence will be supplied with a numbered polycart that
will be registered to them with no deposit required.
      3.   Anyone whose services are disconnected for non-payment will have
their polycart picked up and sanitation services will not be provided until the
bill is paid in full.
      4.   Residents who transfer from one location to another will have their
numbered polycart moved with them to the new location.
      5.   Residents are responsible for the safety and upkeep of the polycart.
If it is lost or stolen the resident will be required to pay the full
replacement price for their polycart.
      6.   Trash must be bagged unless it is boxes, or other dry items.
      7.   Household trash only. No limbs, chemicals, paint, batteries, metal
objects or construction materials will be picked up.
      8.   Polycarts are to be placed on the curb in front of the residence or
at any other place established by the sanitation crew. (Ord. 282, 8-27-2015)
   B.   Receptacles Required: The owner or occupant, as the case may be, of any
and all premises in the Town not on an established polycart pickup route and
not subject to the provisions of subsection A of this section shall procure,
supply and place up to four (4) watertight, plastic or other lightweight cans
that must be of sufficient size to hold not more than thirty three (33)
gallons, with close fitting covers and rack for said cans, except that no rack
shall be required for curbside pick up. (Ord. 241, 2-15-2007)
   C.   Placement For Collection: Said plastic or other lightweight cans shall
be placed on the alley, or in case it is more convenient to the collector, then
said cans may be placed on some place on the lot or premises outside the
buildings for access to the same. (Ord. 231, 5-12-2005; amd. Ord. 241, 2-15-
2007)
   D.   Depositing Garbage In Receptacles: Said owner or occupant shall deposit
all garbage in said cans placed in the alley or other convenient places on the
premises, so that the same may be removed at stipulated times from said
premises.
   E.   Maintenance Of Receptacles; Sanitary Condition: It shall be the duty of
the owner of the said cans to keep them clean at any and all times, and to
maintain them in a sanitary condition. (1992 Code § 16-35; amd. Ord. 241, 2-15-
2007)
   F.   Businesses; Differing Requirements: The requirements for plastic or
other lightweight containers shall not apply to all commercial businesses; such
entities shall be required to deposit refuse in containers acceptable to the
Municipal collection agent.
   G.   Violation; Surcharge: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person, firm or corporation to violate the provisions of this section, and
those in violation of same shall be assessed a surcharge of five dollars
($5.00) per each such violation or occurrence which shall be added to the next
month's utility billing statement. (Ord. 231, 5-12-2005; amd. Ord. 241, 2-15-
2007)
8-4-6: ACCUMULATION A NUISANCE; CONTAINERS:
   A.   Accumulation A Nuisance; Abatement:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any lot or piece of
ground to allow solid waste to accumulate thereon, so as to cause an offensive
odor to be emitted therefrom or to become injurious or dangerous to the health
of the neighborhood or any inhabitant thereof.
      2.   Any such condition is hereby declared a violation of this chapter
and punishable as such, and in addition is declared to be a nuisance and may be
abated as such.
   B.   Construction Sites:
      1.   Any person constructing any structure within the Town shall, prior
to construction on any premises, furnish and place on said premises a container
of suitable size and design (30 gallon maximum) to contain all solid waste
which might, by the winds or elements, be distributed and blown from the
premises. Said container shall be used by the person concerned at all times to
keep the premises from becoming unsightly with solid waste, and shall always be
kept covered.
      2.   Any person who fails to keep the premises on which any structure is
being built or installed free from solid waste and who allows said waste to
blow or be carried from the premises to adjoining or other property or into the
streets shall be deemed guilty of causing a nuisance, and shall be subject to
the penalties in this Code prescribed therefor. (1992 Code § 16-33)
8-4-7: BURNING OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Burning Or Incinerating Prohibited: It shall be an offense for any
person to start or maintain any fire or cause any fire to be started or
maintained for the purpose of unlawfully burning or incinerating any solid
waste.
   B.   Installation Of Unlawful Incinerator In Building: It shall be an
offense to construct or install, within any building in the Town, an unlawful
incinerator designed to burn solid waste. (1992 Code § 16-34)
8-4-8: DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE BY NONRESIDENTS:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any nonresident of the Town, whether
person, firm or corporation, to dispose of any "solid waste" or "trash", as
defined in section
8-4-3 of this chapter, by depositing same in any receptacle or container, or by
disposing of same in any other unauthorized manner, within the Town limits.
(Ord. 194, 10-7-1993)
8-4-9: PENALTY:
See section
8-1-10 of this title for penalty provisions. (2005 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
 
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Modifications Of Adopted Codes
9-1-3: Codes On File; Effect; Conflicts
9-1-4: Fire Limits
9-1-5: Maintenance Of Historic Sites
9-1-6: Moving Buildings
9-1-7: Off Street Parking (Rep. by Ord. 303, 6-13-2019)
9-1-8: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
9-1-9: Penalty
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The particular Model Construction Codes listed below (with revisions as may be
hereinafter set forth) are hereby adopted and incorporated in this Code, as
fully as if set out at length herein, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the following activities carried on within the corporate limits
of the Town:
   A.   Building Code: The construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use, occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures:
      Standard Building Code (recommended by the Southern Building Code
Congress), 1991 edition.
   B.   Plumbing Code: The installation or alteration of plumbing and drainage
systems for buildings and structures:
      Standard Plumbing Code (recommended by the Southern Building Code
Congress), 1991 edition.
   C.   Electrical Code: The installation or alteration of electrical equipment
for buildings or structures:
      National Electrical Code (recommended by the American Insurance
Association), 1990 edition.
   D.   Housing Code: The provision of basic, minimum housing standards for the
preservation of the health, safety and welfare of occupants:
      Standard Housing Code (recommended by the Southern Building Code
Congress), 1990 edition.
   E.   Fire Prevention Code 1 : The provision of basic safeguards to life and
property from the hazards of fire and explosion:
      National Fire Prevention Code (recommended by the American Insurance
Association), 1990 edition.
   F.   Gas Code: The installation or alteration of gas systems for buildings
or structures:
      Gas Appliances and Gas Piping (recommended by the National Fire
Protection Association), 1990 edition.
   G.   Energy Conservation Code: The provision of basic standards for energy
conservation in building and structures:
      Basic Energy Conservation Code (recommended by Building Officials and
Code Administrators International - BOCA), 1991 edition.
   H.   Mechanical Code: The provision of basic standards for mechanical
installations in buildings and structures:
      Basic Mechanical Code (recommended by Building Officials and Code
Administrators International - BOCA) 1991 edition.
   I.   Life Safety Code; All Volumes: The provision of basic standards for
life safety considerations in buildings and structures:
      Life Safety Code (recommended by the American Insurance Association),
1991 edition. (1992 Code § 4-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2-8 of this Code for enforcement and variance provisions.
9-1-2: MODIFICATIONS OF ADOPTED CODES:
   A.   Town: Wherever the words "city", "town" or "municipality" are used in
these model construction codes adopted, it shall mean the town of Carnegie,
Oklahoma.
   B.   Official Titles: All official titles used in those model construction
codes adopted shall be interpreted as defined in this town code.
   C.   Maximum Penalties: Maximum penalties for violation of provisions of
those model construction codes adopted shall be as provided in section
9-1-9, "Penalty", of this chapter.
   D.   Wood Shingles: Notwithstanding any provisions of any of those model
construction codes adopted by this chapter, wood shingles may be used for
roofing.
   E.   References To Limits: All limits, except "fire limits", referred to in
any of those model construction codes adopted by this chapter are hereby
established as the corporate limits of the town. (1992 Code § 4-2)
9-1-3: CODES ON FILE; EFFECT; CONFLICTS:
   A.   Codes On File: Three (3) copies of the model construction codes adopted
by the town shall be and remain on file in the office of the town clerk.
   B.   Effect: From the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the
provisions of said codes, as herein modified, shall be controlling in those
areas set forth hereinabove, within the corporate limits of the town.
   C.   Conflicts: Whenever any provision of any of those model construction
codes adopted by this chapter conflicts with the town code, the provisions of
the town code shall govern. (1992 Code § 4-3)
9-1-4: FIRE LIMITS:
   A.   Limits Described: The following area within the corporate limits of the
town shall embrace and constitute the "fire limits" of the town:
Beginning at the northeast corner of Block Nine (9) in the First Addition to
the Town of Carnegie; then west along the centerline of Ash Street to the
intersection of the centerline of Colorado Street; then south along the
centerline of Colorado Street to the intersection of the north line of the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad right of way; then in a northeasterly
direction along the north line of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad
right of way to the intersection of the centerline of Park Street; then north
on the centerline of Park Street to the point of beginning.
   B.   Rebuilding Structure Damaged By Fire: It shall be unlawful to rebuild
any building which has been more than fifty percent (50%) destroyed by fire,
except as otherwise stated in this town code. (1992 Code § 4-131; amd. 2005
Code)
9-1-5: MAINTENANCE OF HISTORIC SITES:
   A.   Maintenance Required; Additional Regulation: Every person in charge of
an improvement on a locally delineated historic site or in a historic district
shall keep in good repair all of the exterior portions of such improvement and
all interior portions which, if not so maintained, may cause, or tend to cause,
the exterior portions of such improvement to fall into a state of disrepair.
This section shall be in addition to all other provisions of law, local
ordinance or codes requiring buildings or structures to be well maintained.
   B.   Building Code Variances: Insofar as they are applicable to a landmark,
historic site or improvement in a historic district, any provision of any
adopted model construction codes may be varied or waived, on application, by
the building inspector; provided, that such variance or waiver does not
endanger public health or safety.
   C.   Exception: Nothing contained in this title shall prohibit the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, demolition or any improvement on a
historic site or in a historic district pursuant to written order of any
federal or state agency or pursuant to any court judgment to remedy conditions
determined to be dangerous to life or health. In such case, no approval from
the preservation review commission shall be required. (1992 Code § 4-5)
9-1-6: MOVING BUILDINGS:
No frame building shall be moved from without to within the corporate limits of
the town, which, by reason of its age, state of repair, condition of wiring or
which, for any other reason, is unfit for human habitation or which might
endanger the public peace, safety, health or welfare. (1992 Code § 4-132)
9-1-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
(Rep. by Ord. 303, 6-13-2019)
9-1-8: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Nonliability Of Enforcement Officials: Any officer or employee of the
Town charged with the enforcement of this title and acting in good faith and
without malice, for the Town, in the discharge of official duties, shall not
thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act or omission required or permitted in the discharge of such duties.
   B.   Defense Provided By Town: Any suit brought against any officer or
employee because of such act or omission performed in the enforcement of any
provisions of the adopted codes may be defended by the Town Attorney until the
final termination of the proceedings. (1992 Code § 4-138)
9-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to do anything required by this
title or by any code adopted by this chapter, who shall otherwise violate any
provision of this title or of any code adopted by this chapter, or who shall
violate any lawful regulation or order made by any Town official provided for
in this title, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in section
1-9-22 this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (1992 Code § 4-200)
CHAPTER 2
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Building Permit Requirements; Fees
9-2-2: Review Of Building Permit Application; Conditions
9-2-3: Development In Flood Hazard Areas
9-2-4: Certificate Of Appropriateness, Historic Site Restoration
9-2-5: Consideration; Permit Issuance Or Denial
9-2-6: Display Of Permit
9-2-7: Failure To Initiate Work
9-2-8: Record Of Permits And Fees
9-2-9: Monitor Utility Hookup Requests
9-2-10: Appeal Building Permit Decisions
9-2-11: Conflicting Provisions
9-2-12: Revocation Of Permit
9-2-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Various Permits Required:
      1.   Construction, Demolition, Relocation; Inspection Fee: No person
shall erect, enlarge, construct, relocate, substantially improve, repair,
place, alter, move or demolish any building, structure, mobile, modular or
manufactured home, or initiate any other construction without first obtaining a
separate building permit for each such building or structure from the office of
the town clerk. Said permit shall be in addition to, and separate from, all
other requirements for zoning clearance permits or certificates of
appropriateness:
      2.   Fences:
         a.   An applicant for a building permit related to the construction,
replacement or major repair (more than 50 percent) of any type of fence in the
town shall comply with the following requirements:
            (1)   Any fencing located in front of the main structure shall be
no higher than three feet (3'), except those constructed of chainlink. (1992
Code § 4-10; amd. 2005 Code)
            (2)   Fencing shall not cause any obstruction to any public right
of way or drainage easement, excluding utility easements (where fencing shall
be placed on either the easement line or the property line, depending on the
remaining fence placements in the adjacent lots).
            (3)   No fencing shall be allowed to obstruct the sight triangle at
intersections or corners 1 .
         b.   Noncompliance shall be grounds for nonissuance or revocation of
the permit by the town clerk.
   B.   Manmade Changes To Real Estate In Flood Hazard Areas 2 : No manmade
change to improved or unimproved real estate located within a designated flood
hazard area, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations,
shall be initiated until a separate building permit has been obtained for each
such operation from the office of the town clerk. (1992 Code § 4-10)
   C.   Freestanding Mobile Homes 3 :
      1.   Placement On Individual Lot Allowed: Notwithstanding subsections A
and B of this section, a lot in a residential area having no residential
dwelling thereon may be used by the owner/lessee thereof for parking of one
mobile home to be used as his or her dwelling or for residential rental
purposes.
      2.   Payment Of Monthly Utility Fees: The owner/lessee of any such single
mobile home space shall pay to the town clerk, when such space is occupied by a
mobile home, the same monthly fees for water, sewer, and garbage service, and
shall be subject to the same penalties for nonpayment of such fees as are
provided by ordinance for single-family dwelling units.
      3.   Compliance With Sewer, Water, Sanitation And Electric Installations:
Any single mobile home located within the Town, not in a mobile home park as
described herein, should comply with all regulations concerning inspections by
the Health Officer, Building Inspector and Fire Marshal to comply with the
requirements herein relating to sewer, water, sanitation and electric
installations.
      4.   Permission, Permit Required: Before any mobile home shall be moved
onto any lot within the Town limits, the owner of said mobile home must obtain
the approval of the Board of Trustees at a regular meeting, and shall obtain
such permit as the Board may require.
      5.   Compliance With Plat Restrictions, Protective Covenants: The
provisions of this subsection shall apply, provided such provisions do not
violate any plat restriction or protective covenant applicable to the lot upon
which the mobile home is located.
      6.   Tie Downs And Skirting: The provisions of section
9-4-8 of this title for tie downs shall apply to any such mobile home moved
onto any lot, and same shall be properly skirted and otherwise situated as the
Board of Trustees may prescribe. (Ord. 196, 10-5-1995)
   D.   Minor Repairs: Minor repairs of buildings or structures, the cost of
which shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), may be made without
obtaining a building permit; provided, that plumbing, electrical or mechanical
work covered by adopted model construction codes shall require an appropriate
permit.
   E.   Application For Permit: All applications for building permits shall be
signed and in writing, upon an official blank form supplied by the Office of
the Town Clerk or the building inspector, and shall be submitted to either of
said officials, along with the required fee. (1992 Code § 4-10)
   F.   Building Permit Fees: Building permit fees shall be determined
according to the estimated construction cost, based primarily upon the Town
costs incurred in the administration of the Town building permit system. (1992
Code § 4-10; amd. 2005 Code)
   G.   Administration Of Building Permit Process: The Office of the Town Clerk
shall be responsible for the administration of the building permit process;
provided, that building permit application forms may be obtained from, and
submitted to, the building inspector. (1992 Code § 4-10)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-1-1C of this code.
2 2. See also section
  9-2-3 of this chapter, and chapter 5 of this title.
3 3. See also section
  9-4-3 of this title.
9-2-2: REVIEW OF BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Contents Of Application; Required Documents: Applications for building
permits shall contain all applicable information required on the building
permit form, and shall be accompanied by drawings of the proposed work (drawn
to scale), showing floor plans, structural details, computations and such
additional information as may be required of the applicant by the Office of the
Town Clerk, the building inspector, this Code or the Town Board of Trustees.
   B.   Receipt Of Application And Fee; Ensure Compliance: Upon receipt of a
complete building permit application and the required fee, the Town Clerk shall
immediately turn the application over to the building inspector, who shall
review the application to ensure that:
      1.   The involved land is properly zoned for the proposed use.
      2.   Applicable zoning district provisions (including floodway and
floodway fringe district provisions), and any applicable historic preservation
provisions, have been met.
      3.   Legally dedicated roadway access is available, and proof of such
dedication has been provided.
      4.   Adequate and sanitary provisions have been made for utilities, and
fire protection is also adequate.
      5.   All easements and street right-of-way areas provided in the recorded
plat, if any, are not encroached upon. To this end, the builder of any
structure located in the Town shall, by receipt of the building permit, agree
to furnish the purchaser of the structure with a survey of the lots and
structures thereon, upon completion of construction, indicating compliance with
this requirement. Said survey shall be signed by a surveyor licensed in the
State of Oklahoma.
      6.   All other floodplain regulations, if applicable, have been met and
the required information provided.
      7.   Applicable historic preservation regulations have been met.
      8.   All other required Town permits and/or licenses have been obtained.
(1992 Code § 4-10)
9-2-3: DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS 1 :
   A.   Review Application To Ensure Compliance: Building permit applications
for development, location, demolition or alteration within delineated flood
hazard areas, as shown on the flood insurance study for Caddo County and the
town of Carnegie, dated September 27, 1991, with the accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) and flood boundary-floodway maps (FBFM), and any
revision thereto, which are hereby adopted by reference, as if set out fully
herein, shall be reviewed by the building inspector to ensure that all of the
following requirements are met: (Ord. 188, 2-6-1992)
      1.   All building sites shall be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all new construction and
substantial improvement (including the placement of prefabricated buildings and
mobile homes) shall:
         a.   Be designed, modified and/or adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure. All manufactured
housing to be placed within zone A on the community's flood hazard boundary map
(FHBM) shall be anchored by providing over the top and frame ties to ground
anchors. Over the top ties shall be provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the mobile home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate points,
and manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring one additional
tie per side. Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home, with
five (5) additional ties per side at intermediate points, and manufactured
homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per
side. All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds. Any additions to the home
shall be similarly anchored.
         b.   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage.
         c.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages.
         d.   Be constructed with electrical, heating, plumbing, ventilation
and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed
and/or located to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      2.   All new and replacement water supply systems within flood prone
areas shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems.
      3.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   On site waste disposal systems within flood prone areas shall be
located to avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them, during
flooding.
      5.   The building inspector shall utilize all available 100-year flood
elevation data to review building permit applications, and shall require that
all applications for development within a flood prone area be accompanied by:
a) the elevation of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures; and b) a certificate signed by a
registered professional engineer or architect, stating that the floodproofing
methods to be utilized are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
100-year flood, and indicating the specific elevation to which the structure
will be floodproofed. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding, shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      6.   All new construction or substantial improvement of residential
structures within zones A1-30 on the town's flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot (1') above
the level of the 100-year flood.
      7.   Within zones A1-30 on the town's flood insurance rate map (FIRM),
all manufactured housing not in a park or subdivision, all new manufactured
housing parks and subdivisions, all expansions to existing manufactured housing
parks and subdivisions, and all repairs, reconstruction or improvement of
streets, utilities and/or pads in existing manufactured housing parks or
subdivisions, shall be located, developed, expanded or improved according to
the following criteria:
         a.   All manufactured housing shall be placed, or be capable of being
placed, on compacted fill or on pilings, so that the lowest floor of the home
will be one foot (1') above the level of the 100-year flood;
         b.   All lots shall have adequate provisions for surface drainage and
access; and
         c.   All manufactured housing to be elevated on pilings shall: 1) be
placed on lots large enough to permit steps; 2) provide for piling foundations
to be placed in stable or stabilized soils, no more than ten feet (10') apart;
and 3) provide for reinforcement of piers more than six feet (6') above ground
level.
      8.   All new construction or substantial improvement of residential
structures located within any AO (area of shallow flooding) zone, as shown on
the town's flood insurance rate map (FIRM), shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade or the crown of
the nearest street, one foot (1') above the depth number specified for the area
on the town's flood insurance rate map (FIRM). Within zone AH or AO, adequate
drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be required.
      9.   All new construction or substantial improvement of nonresidential
structures within zones A1-30 on the town's flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
shall:
         a.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot (1')
above the level of the 100-year flood; or
         b.   Be designed, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, so that, below the level of the 100-year flood, the structure is
watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and
contain structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy.
      10.   All new construction or substantial improvement of nonresidential
structures within any AO (area of shallow flooding) zone on the town's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) shall:
         a.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade or the crown of the nearest street, one foot (1') above
the depth number specified on the town's flood insurance rate map (FIRM); or
         b.   Be completely floodproofed, along with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, to one foot (1') above the depth number specified on the
town's flood insurance rate map (FIRM), so that any space below the level is
watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and
contain structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be required to include, within zones AH or AO, adequate drainage
paths around structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from
proposed structures.
      11.   The requirements of this chapter shall also be in effect for
building permit applications for development located within any A99 zones on
the town's flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
      12.   Floodways, as designated on the town's official flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM), are hazardous areas due to: a) the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris and potentially damaging projectiles; and b) the creation of
severe erosion problems. The following provisions apply within designated
floodway areas:
         a.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments, unless certification by a
professional registered engineer or architect is provided, demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
         b.   If the provisions of subsection A12a of this section are
satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this code.
   B.   Additional Responsibilities Of Building Inspector: The building
inspector shall have the following additional responsibilities in the review of
building permit applications for development, location, demolition or
alteration within a delineated flood hazard area.
      1.   Building permit applications shall be reviewed to ensure that all
necessary governmental agency permits required by state or federal law have
been obtained.
      2.   In the case of building permit applications for alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, the building inspector shall:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the state flood insurance
coordinating office prior to such work (and submit copies of such notification
to the federal flood insurance administrator); and
         b.   Obtain written assurances from the building permit applicant that
the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the
watercourse will be maintained.
      3.   For the purpose of determining future flood insurance risk premium
rates, the building inspector shall maintain records of:
         a.   The elevation of the lowest habitable floor of all new or
substantially improved structures; and
         b.   Floodproofing certificates (including the specific elevation to
which the structures are floodproofed).
      4.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the building
inspector must require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE
on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
      5.   The building inspector shall utilize the full range of the
community's floodplain management regulations in this review.
   C.   Permit Issuance; Nonliability Of Town Officials: Issuance of a building
permit for development within an identified flood hazard area shall not create
liability on the part of any town official for any flood damages resulting from
reliance upon the provisions of this section, or any administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder. (1992 Code § 4-10)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 5 of this title.
9-2-4: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS, HISTORIC SITE RESTORATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of issuing a certificate of appropriateness is to
make all concerned parties aware that all required submittals and approvals
have been completed and that the proper permit may be issued for the start of
restoration work.
   B.   Condition To Building Permit Issuance: The certificate of
appropriateness is required before a building permit is issued for any of the
following to occur in a historic district or on a locally designated historic
landmark or historic site:
      1.   Demolition of property;
      2.   Moving of property;
      3.   Material changes such as exterior reconstruction, alteration or
color changes other than those approved in the original application; or
      4.   Building of new structures on property. (1992 Code § 4-17)
   C.   Application; Fee: The following procedures shall be used for
applications:
      1.   A filing fee in such amount as set by the board of trustees shall be
collected by the office of the town clerk. (1992 Code § 4-17; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   The applicant shall submit for review any sketches, plans, drawings,
photos or other information which would clearly show the preservation
commission what changes will be made.
      3.   The application shall be filed with the town clerk.
      4.   The certificate of appropriateness shall be reviewed by the
preservation commission in generally the same manner as a rezoning application
and request.
      5.   If work authorized by a certificate of appropriateness is not begun
within sixty (60) days, the certificate of appropriateness shall expire and
reapplication must be made, unless a thirty (30) day extension is granted by
the preservation commission. No more than two (2) extensions may be permitted
on one project. (1992 Code § 4-17)
9-2-5: CONSIDERATION; PERMIT ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
   A.   Approval; Forward To Clerk: If the building inspector is satisfied that
the proposed work described in the application and attached materials conform
to the requirements of any zoning ordinance, building code and other
regulations and requirements, the issuance of the building permit shall be
authorized by signing the application and forwarding it to the office of the
town clerk, who shall return a copy to the applicant.
   B.   Denial: If the application or attached materials do not conform to
pertinent town regulations, the building inspector shall not approve said
application, but shall return the application to the town clerk, along with
written reasons for disapproval. The town clerk shall return the application,
with written reasons attached, to the applicant. The applicant may subsequently
amend the application, if possible, and resubmit it, or initiate other action
to correct the deficiencies.
   C.   Complete Review In Timely Manner: The building inspector and the office
of the town clerk shall complete all required review processes in an efficient
and effective manner, without unreasonable or unnecessary delay.
   D.   Effect Of Permit Issuance: A building permit, once approved and issued,
shall be construed as authorization to proceed with the work and shall not be
construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set aside any town
regulations, nor shall such issuance prevent the building inspector from
thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction or a
violation of this code. (1992 Code § 4-10)
9-2-6: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
Building permits shall be conspicuously displayed on the project or site, in a
manner visible from the street. (1992 Code § 4-10)
9-2-7: FAILURE TO INITIATE WORK:
If the work allowed under an issued building permit has not been initiated
within six (6) months from the issuance date of said permit, such permit shall
become null and void, unless a request for an extension is submitted to, and
approved by, the town board of trustees. Such extension request must be
submitted to the town board prior to the end of said six (6) month period. If
said permit becomes null and void, a new permit must be obtained and the
regular fee incident thereto collected, in order for the work to be initiated
or resumed. (1992 Code § 4-10)
9-2-8: RECORD OF PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permits: The town clerk shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting
of all building permits, and shall transmit copies of each permit issued to the
building inspector, for informational purposes.
   B.   Fees: The town clerk shall keep a permanent and accurate record of all
building permit fee payments. (1992 Code § 4-10)
9-2-9: MONITOR UTILITY HOOKUP REQUESTS:
The town clerk and the building inspector shall monitor town utility hookup
requests and shall not allow municipal utilities to be turned on to any unit,
structure or project for which a building permit has not been issued. (1992
Code § 4-10)
9-2-10: APPEAL BUILDING PERMIT DECISIONS:
Appeals from any aggrieved person concerning a decision of the town clerk
relative to the granting of building permits shall be taken to the town board
of trustees, who shall act as the permit board of appeals for the town. (1992
Code § 4-10)
9-2-11: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In the event of any conflict between the building permit provisions delineated
herein and any provisions of the building code adopted by the town board of
trustees, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. (1992 Code § 4-10)
9-2-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The town clerk may revoke a building permit in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or
attached materials on which the building permit approval was based. (1992 Code
§ 4-10)
ARTICLE A.  SPECIAL PERMITS
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Pavement Cutting Permit
9-2A-2: Liquefied Petroleum Gas State Permit
9-2A-1: PAVEMENT CUTTING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required; Approval:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut any pavement on any
street or alley within the town without a pavement cutting permit from the
office of the town clerk.
      2.   Said permit shall first be approved by the public works authority
superintendent. (1992 Code § 4-13)
   B.   Permit Fee; Pavement Repair Costs: An estimate of the cost of repairing
such pavement cut shall be made by the public works authority superintendent,
and a deposit equal to the amount of the estimate shall be made by the
applicant, in addition to a permit fee in such amount as set by the board of
trustees. (1992 Code § 4-13; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Repair By Town Or Permittee; Refund: The town may, at its option,
either make repairs to the pavement which has been cut under the provisions of
this section, and charge the costs of such repairs to the deposit herein
provided, or require that the person cutting the pavement make the repairs. In
the latter case, the person's deposit shall be returned, upon satisfactory
repair of the pavement, in accordance with town standards. Any balance
remaining after all such costs are paid shall be returned to the person making
said deposit.
   D.   Safeguards: Any person cutting such pavement shall maintain proper
safeguards, with suitable lights during the night hours, and sufficient in
number to give warning of danger to all persons. (1992 Code § 4-13)
   E.   Public Utilities Laying Pipes:
      1.   Permit Required; Exception For Emergency: Any public utility
contractor, firm or other person desiring to bore or cut into, or in any manner
cross, any public street, alley, sidewalk or public ground of any sort, whether
paved, graveled, bricked, blacktopped or not, for any purpose whatever, shall
first obtain a pavement cutting permit from the town clerk to cross or open
such street, alley, sidewalk or ground. (Exception to this requirement will be
made only when a bona fide emergency exists. In such case, the building
inspector or the public works superintendent shall be notified at the earliest
practical time.) (1992 Code § 4-13; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Boring, Cutting Or Ditching: On all weather streets or alleys with
bituminous or concrete surface, boring will be required without exception.
Cutting or ditching will be allowed on all streets or alleys with dirt or
gravel surface. If for any reason these requirements cannot be complied with,
cutting of a street will be allowed, but shall require the street surface to be
replaced with a minimum of six inches (6") of concrete, twenty four inches
(24") wider than the cut or the ditch.
      3.   Restoration Of Street Surface: When any street, alley, sidewalk or
public ground has been crossed for the purpose of laying gas, water or sewer
pipe, or for any other purpose, the surface will be restored with similar
material and workmanship to that existing in the street, alley, sidewalk or
public ground before the same was torn up. All work shall be completed and
refilled to the satisfaction of the building inspector, or a representative,
and approval issued as previously stated.
      4.   Backfill Materials: Materials used to backfill any opening in a
street or alley shall be placed in lifts not to exceed ten inches (10"), and
each lift shall be tamped either mechanically or by hand to ninety five percent
(95%) compaction. Six inches (6") of crushed aggregate base material shall be
used to fill to the existing surface on all streets and alleys. Openings in
concrete surfaces shall be filled with base material to within four inches (4")
of the bottom of the slab. The remaining four inches (4") of the opening shall
be filled with sand to the bottom of the concrete slab to be replaced. On major
streets, the thickness of crushed aggregate base material required may vary.
      5.   Lights And Barricades Required: In all cases where the surface of
the street, alley, sidewalk or public ground is disturbed, the party so cutting
into the opening shall place lights at night and maintain suitable barricades
at all times to protect persons from danger.
      6.   Failure To Comply: Should any person, firm, corporation, contractor
or franchise holder with the Town fail to comply, said party shall be summoned
before the Town Board of Trustees for removal of their license or franchise.
Any person not licensed with the Town who fails to comply shall be fined and
required to pay costs of repair, plus labor. (1992 Code § 4-13)
      7.   Fees: The fees for such permits shall be in such amounts as set by
the Board of Trustees. (1992 Code § 4-13; amd. 2005 Code)
9-2A-2: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS STATE PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing or utilization
of liquefied petroleum gas; or to transport, handle or store such gas, unless
such person has complied and complies with all provisions of the State law and
local ordinances relating thereto, and has any permit which may be required by
State law. No storage of liquefied petroleum gas, except by retail customers in
five (5) gallon (30 pound) bottles or less, strictly intended for their own
use, shall be permitted within the corporate limits of the Town. It shall
further be unlawful to connect any propane tank to a residence or business
within the corporate limits of the Town if natural gas service is available
from a regulated utility company. (Ord. 281, 5-14-2015)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING AND PRESERVATION COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Jurisdictional Areas
9-3-2: Rules And Regulations
9-3-3: Employees; Expenditures
9-3-4: Project Review Procedure
9-3-1: JURISDICTIONAL AREAS:
   A.   Local: The municipal planning commission and the preservation
commission shall have jurisdiction over all land within the corporate limits of
the town.
   B.   Regional: The jurisdictional area of the regional planning commission
shall include, for the purposes of the regulation and review of land
subdivision only, any lands outside the corporate limits of the town, whose any
one boundary, at any point, shall be at and within a distance of three (3)
miles from the corporate limits of said community; provided, that such
jurisdiction shall only include land within Caddo County, Oklahoma. (1992 Code
§ 15-3)
9-3-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Adopt Rules; Public Record: The planning commission and the
preservation commission shall prescribe and adopt rules and regulations
governing the transaction of business, and shall keep a public record of all
regulations, transactions and findings.
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular meetings of the planning commission shall be scheduled at
least once each month; regular meetings of the preservation commission shall be
scheduled at least four (4) times each year.
      2.   Special and emergency meetings may be called by the mayor or
chairman of each commission, in accordance with the state open meetings law 1 .
(1992 Code § 15-4)
 
Notes
1 1. 25 OS § 301 et seq.
9-3-3: EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Contract For Professional Services: The planning commission and the
preservation commission shall have the authority to contract for necessary
professional services, within the limits of any budgetary appropriations fixed
by the town board of trustees. All compensation for such services shall also be
fixed by said town board.
   B.   Other Expenses: The planning commission and the preservation commission
may incur other necessary expenses, within the limits of the town board of
trustees' budgetary appropriations, to carry out all purposes and
responsibilities. (1992 Code § 15-5)
9-3-4: PROJECT REVIEW PROCEDURE:
All projects or matters that fall within the duties and powers of the planning
commission or the preservation commission (as specified in this code) shall be
referred to either commission for investigation and report before any final
action shall be taken thereon by the town board of trustees. If either
commission fails to make an investigation and report on any matter referred to
it within sixty (60) days, or other agreed upon time, the town board of
trustees may proceed to act upon such matter. (1992 Code § 15-6)
ARTICLE A.  PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Commission Established; Membership; Terms
9-3A-2: Regional Planning Commission
9-3A-3: Duties And Powers
9-3A-4: Designation As Zoning Commission
9-3A-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.   Commission Created; Composition: There is hereby created a municipal
planning commission to serve as an advisory board for the town, to be composed
of at least five (5) members. The mayor and the town clerk shall serve as ex
officio members of said commission, without voting powers.
   B.   Terms Of Office: Upon the initial appointment of members to the
municipal planning commission, the mayor shall designate one member to serve
for a period of one year, two (2) members to serve for a period of two (2)
years, and two (2) members to serve for a period of three (3) years. All
subsequent appointments of members shall be for three (3) year terms, and until
their successors are appointed and qualified.
   C.   Appointment; Residency; Compensation: The members of the municipal
planning commission shall be nominated for appointment by the mayor and
confirmed by the town board of trustees, shall be residents of the town, and
shall serve without salary.
   D.   Removals; Vacancies:
      1.   Members of the municipal planning commission may be removed by the
town board of trustees for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malefaction in office
or other cause established by resolution of the town board of trustees.
      2.   Vacancies occurring other than through the expiration of a term
shall be filled only for the unexpired term by the town board of trustees.
   E.   Selection Of Officers: Within five (5) days of the appointment and
qualification of the members of the municipal planning commission, said
commission shall meet and elect one of their number as chairman, one as vice
chairman and one as secretary; in addition, the municipal planning commission
may create and fill such other offices as it may deem necessary. The term of
all such offices shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection. Three (3)
members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. (1992 Code § 1-38)
9-3A-2: REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION:
There is hereby created a regional planning commission as an entity of the
town. The municipal planning commission for the town shall also serve as the
regional planning commission, in order to avail itself of the powers of state
law relating to the regulation of land subdivision within three (3) miles of
the corporate limits of the town. The mayor of the town and the chairman of the
Caddo County board of commissioners shall be ex officio members of said
regional planning commission, to serve without voting powers. (1992 Code § 1-
38)
9-3A-3: DUTIES AND POWERS:
   A.   Duties Enumerated: The planning commission shall have the following
duties and powers:
      1.   To prepare and recommend to the town board of trustees, for
adoption, a comprehensive plan for the future development of the town and to
ensure that said plan, once prepared and adopted, is properly utilized and
updated at appropriate intervals.
      2.   To make recommendations concerning the community's growth,
improvement and beautification.
      3.   To investigate and report to the town board of trustees on all
matters relating to the location and development of parks and recreational
areas, streets, public grounds and structures.
      4.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the town board of trustees,
for adoption, a suitable zoning ordinance to assist in the implementation of
the community's comprehensive plan, and to assist the town board of trustees in
administering said zoning ordinance.
      5.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the town board of trustees,
for adoption, rules and standards for use in regulating the subdivision of land
within the planning commission's jurisdictional area, and to assist said town
board of trustees in administering said land subdivision regulations.
      6.   To investigate, prepare and recommend to the town board of trustees,
for adoption, such other rules, regulations or standards as may be necessary to
implement the comprehensive plan for the town, including standards and
regulations for floodplain management, historic preservation, signs, annexation
and utility extensions, among others.
   B.   Finances: The planning commission may also accept or raise funds, from
public or private sources, for valid public purposes or projects. (1992 Code §
15-7)
9-3A-4: DESIGNATION AS ZONING COMMISSION:
To avail itself of the powers of state law, the municipal planning commission
is hereby designated as the zoning commission of the town. (1992 Code § 15-22)
ARTICLE B.  PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
9-3B-1: Commission Created; Appointments
9-3B-2: Duties And Powers
9-3B-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENTS:
There is hereby created a preservation commission for the town, which
commission shall be composed of at least five (5) members, to be appointed by
the mayor, in generally the same manner as the municipal planning commission 1
. (1992 Code § 1-39)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-3A-1 of this chapter.
9-3B-2: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The preservation commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To develop appropriate criteria and standards for identifying and
evaluating neighborhoods, places, structures and improvements which might be
classified as historic landmarks, historic sites or historic districts. (1992
Code § 1-39)
   B.   To designate such historic landmarks, historic sites or historic
districts within the corporate limits of the town. Once designated by the
commission, such historic landmarks, historic sites and historic districts
shall be subject to all the provisions of this code. (1992 Code § 1-39; amd.
2005 Code)
   C.   To compile a list of structures which would be eligible for designated
historic landmark or historic structures status; such structures may be within
or outside of a historic district. The commission may negotiate with the owners
of such structures for an agreement binding the owner and property, and such
agreement may be for a specified period of time, to be binding on subsequent
owners until the end of the time specified.
   D.   To acquire a fee or lesser interest, including preservation easements,
in historic properties by donation, bequest or, with the approval of the town
board of trustees, by purchase.
   E.   To cooperate with federal, state, local and other agencies in pursuing
the objectives of historic preservation.
   F.   To develop and recommend ordinances, legislation, policies and
programs, and otherwise provide information on historic preservation to the
citizens of Carnegie, and the town board of trustees.
   G.   To design appropriate markers for designated landmarks, historic sites
and historic districts.
   H.   To take all steps necessary, including the taking, preparation and
collection of photographs, measured drawings, descriptions, recorded
interviews, written data and documentations to permanently record the origin,
development, use and historical significance of each historic landmark,
historic site or historic district.
   I.   To review, subject to this code, applications for new or existing
building or demolition permits, to work on a voluntary basis with the owners of
historic landmarks, historic sites or structures within a historic district,
advising them on the benefits, problems and techniques of preservation and
encouraging their participation in preservation activities, and to issue or
deny certificates of appropriateness for said work.
      1.   All requests for building permits for structures within a historic
district and for those designated as historic landmarks or historic sites shall
be referred to the preservation commission, which shall have a specified period
of time to review each request. The commission may use such time to discuss the
proposed changes with the owner of the structure in question and may permit the
building inspector to issue the building permit before such period has expired.
Following this review, the commission shall issue or deny issuance of a
certificate of appropriateness for the reviewed work.
      2.   This shall not prohibit the granting of a building permit by the
building inspector after such period has expired, if the commission has not
made a decision.
   J.   To make recommendations regarding the proposed demolition of designated
landmarks or historic sites or structures within historic districts, including
public demolition procedures initiated through statutory nuisance abatement
processes, as well as other public or privately initiated demolition processes.
No permit to demolish all or part of any historic landmark or historic
structure shall be granted by the building inspector, nor shall an abatement
order be implemented, except as follows:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided, no person, including an agent of the
town, in charge of a historic landmark or historic site improvement in a
historic district shall be granted a permit or permission to demolish,
partially or in total, such property without the written approval of the
preservation commission,
      2.   Upon the filing of an application with the preservation commission,
said commission shall determine whether the proposed change would destroy or
adversely affect the historical features of the historic landmark, historic
site or historic district property, and whether or not the proposal is the only
feasible alternative.
      3.   If the preservation commission determines that the historic
landmark, historic site or property within a historic district would be
adversely affected by the proposed change, it may withhold its consent to the
granting of permission or of the permit. The commission shall make its decision
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the application, and shall state in
writing the reasons for withholding consent, mailing the same to the applicant.
      4.   If the preservation commission refuses to grant permission or
approve issuance of a permit for demolition, it shall cooperate with the
applicant to arrive at a mutually agreeable plan to avoid demolition, maintain
historic integrity and achieve the applicant's objectives. If no plan is agreed
upon within six (6) months of the filing of the application, the building
inspector may issue the permit to demolish the subject property or the town
agent may proceed, without the approval of the commission.
   K.   To rescind designation of historic landmarks, historic sites or
historic districts.
   L.   To review requests for exceptions for uses within any historic
district.
   M.   To accept or raise funds from public and private sources.
   N.   Make an annual community preservation report to the town board of
trustees. (1992 Code § 1-39)
CHAPTER 4
MANUFACTURED, MOBILE AND MODULAR HOUSING
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Freestanding Mobile Homes
9-4-4: Nonresidential Mobile Homes Or Trailers
9-4-5: Minimum Housing Regulations
9-4-6: Subdivisions (Rep. by Ord. 306, 6-13-2019)
9-4-7: Modular Housing
9-4-8: Tie Downs
9-4-9: Penalty
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations for areas within
the corporate boundaries of the Town, wherein the location and development of
manufactured housing, mobile homes, mobile home parks, trailer parks,
manufactured and mobile home subdivisions and modular housing units or
additions may be safely continued and encouraged.
   B.   The regulations set forth in this chapter are designed to promote
stable neighborhoods, prevent health and safety hazards and encourage the
economical and orderly development and operation of manufactured housing and
mobile home parks and subdivisions, trailer parks and modular housing units and
additions. (1992 Code § 10-1)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, words and phrases shall
have the meanings indicated in this section:
BUFFER PLANTING STRIP: A visual screening facility, consisting of not less than
one row of shrubbery spaced not more than eight feet (8') apart, which will
grow to a height of not less than twelve feet (12') in less than five (5)
years, under normal circumstances. Such a strip may, as an alternative, consist
of an earthen berm or solid fencing, or any combination of earthen berm,
fencing and/or landscaping, all of which shall total at least eight feet (8')
in height.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector of the Town, or an authorized agent.
GREENBELT PLANTING STRIP: A landscaped area, not less than twenty feet (20') in
width, used along all subdivision boundaries. Such greenbelt planting strip
shall be composed of: a) one row of deciduous and/or evergreen trees, spaced
not more than forty feet (40') apart; b) not less than three (3) rows of
shrubs, spaced not more than thirty feet (30') apart; and c) not less than
three (3) rows of shrubs, spaced not more than eight feet (8') apart, all of
which shrubs must eventually be capable of growing to at least four feet (4')
to six feet (6') in height.
HEALTH OFFICIAL: The building inspector or the legally designated Health
Authority of the Town (or an authorized representative), or the authorized
representative of the Caddo County Health Department or the State Department of
Health.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976, in
an off site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code. The three (3)
types of manufactured housing are defined as meeting all of the requirements
listed below, and are to be considered separate from mobile or modular housing:
   A.   Type I manufactured housing shall:
      1.   Have more than one thousand (1,000) square feet of occupied space in
a typically double section or larger multi-section unit, with a minimum width
of twenty feet (20');
      2.   Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with the town's foundation code or other adopted
foundation requirements, and the manufacturer's specifications;
      3.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
municipally approved installation standards;
      4.   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      5.   Have all utilities connected, in accordance with the appropriate
municipal codes and the manufacturer's specifications;
      6.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
      7.   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
      8.   Have a one hundred (100) square foot (minimum) attached, covered
and/or enclosed parking garage, which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area; all parking and driveway areas shall be hard surfaced;
      9.   Have a legitimate front and rear door; and
      10.   Have a minimum eaves width of six inches (6").
   B.   Type II manufactured housing shall:
      1.   Have more than seven hundred twenty (720) square feet of occupied
space in a single, double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with
add a room units);
      2.   Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with the town's foundation code or other adopted
foundation standards, and the manufacturer's specifications;
      3.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
municipally approved installation standards;
      4.   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      5.   Have utilities connected, in accordance with the appropriate
municipal codes and the manufacturer's specifications;
      6.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
      7.   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
      8.   Have a one hundred (100) square foot (minimum) attached, covered
and/or enclosed parking garage, which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area; all parking and driveway areas shall be hard surfaced;
      9.   Have legitimate front and rear doors; and
      10.   Have a minimum eaves width of six inches (6").
   C.   Type III manufactured housing shall:
      1.   Have more than four hundred (400) square feet of occupied space, in
a single, double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add a
room units);
      2.   Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with municipally
approved installation standards;
      3.   Be enclosed with foundation siding or skirting, in accordance with
municipally approved installation standards;
      4.   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the manufacturer's
specifications and the town's appropriate, adopted code; and
      5.   Have utilities connected, in accordance with appropriate municipal
requirements and the manufacturer's specifications.
MOBILE HOME: Any single-family dwelling designed for transportation on streets
and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers (both highway
and rail) and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations, connection to
utilities and similar operations.
MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT: Any mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower. For purposes of this chapter, a "dependent mobile home" shall
be considered to be the same as a "travel trailer", unless otherwise specified.
MOBILE HOME, FREESTANDING: Any mobile home or travel trailer not located in a
mobile home park or travel trailer park respectively, licensed by the town, or
in an approved mobile home subdivision.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: Any plot of ground within a mobile home park or subdivision
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home, and not located on a mobile
home sales lot.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision designed and intended for residential
use, where residence is in mobile homes or manufactured housing exclusively,
and lots are sold for occupancy.
MODULAR HOME: Any factory fabricated, transportable building unit, not built
upon a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated
with similar units on a permanent foundation. The term is intended to apply to
major assemblies and does not include prefabricated sub-elements incorporated
into a structure at the site, nor does it include any type of "manufactured
housing", as defined herein. Any "modular home" must meet United States
government "modular home" certification standards (see section
9-4-7 of this chapter).
NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER: Any vehicle having the basic characteristics of
either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
PARK: A mobile home and/or travel trailer park.
PUBLIC WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM: Any such system built and owned by, or dedicated
to and accepted by, or operated in cooperation with, the town. All other such
systems shall be deemed private systems.
SERVICE BUILDING: Any building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and/or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities.
SUBDIVISION: A manufactured housing or mobile home subdivision, unless
otherwise indicated.
TRAVEL TRAILER: All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation use. For purposes of this chapter, a "dependent mobile home" shall be
considered to be the same as a "travel trailer", unless otherwise specified.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more travel
trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE: A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer. (1992 Code § 10-2)
9-4-3: FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES 1 :
   A.   Location Restricted: No freestanding mobile home or travel trailer
shall be permitted within the corporate limits of the Town, unless it is being
offered for sale or parked for storage, or located within an appropriate area
which permits such freestanding location. (1992 Code § 10-3; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Mobile Homes Or Trailers For Sale: Except for mobile homes or travel
trailers within regular commercial mobile home or travel trailer sales lots,
each such freestanding mobile home or travel trailer offered for sale must be
clearly marked as such, and shall not be occupied for either living or sleeping
purpose.
   C.   Storage Of Travel Trailers: A property owner shall not store, nor
permit to be stored, more than one travel trailer on a residential lot. Such
travel trailer shall not be stored in any required front or side yard or public
utility easement, nor shall such travel trailer project beyond the front of any
building. (1992 Code § 10-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-2-1C of this title.
9-4-4: NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOMES OR TRAILERS:
   A.   Permit Required: Nonresidential mobile homes or trailers shall not be
permitted in the Town unless a temporary permit for operation, valid for a
period of twelve (12) months, is issued by the Town Board of Trustees. Such
permit shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential mobile home or
trailer; the location of such operation and the termination date of the permit,
and shall only be issued under terms of this Code. (Ord. 304, 6-13-2019)
   B.   Compliance With Regulations: No permit shall be issued for a use which
would violate any local, State or Federal ordinance, law or regulation.
   C.   Annual Fee; Exception: An annual fee in such amount as set by the Board
of Trustees shall be charged for each nonresidential mobile home or trailer
permit.
   D.   Construction Projects: Operation of nonresidential mobile homes or
trailers by contractors or construction projects for which building permits
have been issued or which are otherwise approved by governmental units is
permitted during the term of such construction project.
   E.   Permanent Location Prohibited: This section shall not be construed as
permitting or authorizing the permanent location of any nonresidential mobile
home or trailer within the corporate limits of the Town or in conflict with any
future Zoning Ordinance of the Town. (1992 Code § 10-4; amd. 2005 Code)
9-4-5: MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Housing Code: Every manufactured house or mobile home
located in either a mobile home park, a mobile home subdivision or as a
freestanding home shall meet the provisions of the adopted Housing Code of the
Town, except as otherwise provided in this section, or as may be otherwise
provided in other provisions of this Code. (1992 Code § 10-5)
   B.   Ceiling Height: Habitable space in a mobile or manufactured home shall
have a minimum ceiling height of seven feet (7'). (Ord. 305, 6-13-2019)
   C.   Exits: A mobile or manufactured home shall have a safe and unobstructed
primary exit and an emergency exit located away from the primary exit. (1992
Code § 10-5; amd. Ord. 305, 6-13-2019)
9-4-6: SUBDIVISIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 306, 6-13-2019)
9-4-7: MODULAR HOUSING:
   A.   Criteria For Certification: Manufactured or mobile housing shall be
considered as permanent site or modular housing only when it meets the
following (Federal) certification criteria:
      1.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed only
for erection or installation on a site built permanent foundation. A "site
built permanent foundation" is a system of supports, including piers, either
partially or entirely below grade, which is:
         a.   Capable of transferring all loads imposed upon the structure into
soil or bedrock without failure;
         b.   Placed at an adequate depth below grade to prevent frost damage;
and
         c.   Constructed of concrete, steel, treated lumber or grouted
masonry.
      2.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is not designed to
be moved once erected or installed on a site built permanent foundation.
      3.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed and
manufactured to comply with the Town's adopted Building Code, or equivalent.
      4.   The manufacturer must certify that, to the manufacturer's knowledge,
this structure is not intended to be used other than on a site built permanent
foundation.
   B.   Proof Of Status As Modular Unit: Such certification shall be proof of
the housing unit's status as a "modular" unit. Without such certification, any
manufactured housing unit shall be considered a "mobile home", and treated as
such for purposes of regulation. (1992 Code § 10-60)
9-4-8: TIE DOWNS:
   A.   Anchoring Requirements: Every home in a park or subdivision shall be
anchored and tied down for safety purposes in a manner equivalent to the
following:
      1.   Homes up to thirty feet (30') in length shall require two (2) frame
ties per side;
      2.   Homes thirty feet (30') to fifty feet (50') in length shall require
three (3) frame ties per side;
      3.   Homes fifty feet (50') to seventy feet (70') in length shall require
four (4) frame ties per side;
      4.   Homes over seventy feet (70') in length shall require five (5) frame
ties per side; and
      5.   Over the home ties shall also be installed as close to each end as
possible with straps at stud and rafter locations.
   B.   Installation Of Ties: All ties attached to concrete pads or ribbons
must be located in footings or foundation piers. If "dead man" ties are used,
ties must be installed in soil to a depth of at least six feet (6').
   C.   Additional Requirements In Flood Prone Areas: Additional tie down
requirements for homes in flood prone areas shall also be met. (1992 Code § 10-
34; amd. Ord. 307, 6-19-2019)
9-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
an amount not to exceed the limits established in section
1-9-22 of this Code. Each day upon which such violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (1992 Code § 10-100; amd. Ord. 307, 6-19-2019)
CHAPTER 5
FLOOD PRONE AREAS 1
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Review Of Development Proposals
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-2-3 of this title.
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the building inspector's interpretation of
any provision of the town's floodplain management regulations or a request for
a variance.
AREA OF JURISDICTION: All of the unincorporated land under the jurisdiction of
the town board of trustees of the town of Carnegie, Oklahoma.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO zone on the community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3'), where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its flood subgrade below ground level
on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving excavation or drilling operations.
DWELLING UNIT: A place of residence and may be a single- or multiple-dwelling
building.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zones V1-30, VE or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor,
elevated above ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers) or
shear walls parallel to the flow of water; and b) adequately anchored so as not
to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the
magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B,
C, X and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of
fill or solid foundation perimeter walls, with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30,
VE or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls, if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section
60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program (NFIP) regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for the FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was completed before the effective
date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY AND FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FHBM/FIRM): Official maps
on which the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) has delineated both the
areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the
unincorporated areas of the town and are adopted by reference herein; also
adopted herein is the flood insurance rate map series prepared for Caddo
County, Oklahoma, by FEMA.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles water surface elevations
of the base flood, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway maps.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
water, or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface water from
any source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of
associated flooding. Such a system may typically include tidal barriers, dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes.
FLOODPLAIN BOARD: The planning board for floodplain management of the town,
also known as the municipal planning commission.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: The zoning ordinance, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
its adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for working, sleeping, eating, cooking or
recreation areas, or a combination thereof. (A floor used for storage purposes
only is not a "habitable floor".)
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually on the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on the Oklahoma Register of Historic Places; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program (NFIP) regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: Shall be as defined in section
9-4-2 of this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program (NFIP),
the national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Means, for floodplain management purposes, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of
the floodplain management regulations adopted by the town, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For purposes of determining
insurance rates, "start of construction" shall refer to structures for which
construction was started on or after the effective date of any initial FIRM or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and shall include any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
100 YEAR FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled
or exceeded in any given year, based upon the criteria established by the
national flood insurance program (NFIP).
PERSON: Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
PROGRAM: The national flood insurance program (NFIP), authorized by the
national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 USC 4001-4128), as amended.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b) four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; c) designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and d) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling
but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal
use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act, public law 97-348,
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, as long as the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of said
permit date. The actual start means either: a) the first placement of permanent
construction for a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns; or b) any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or c) the placement of a manufactured home
on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include: a) land preparation,
such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include b) the installation
of streets and/or walkways; c) excavation of basements, footings, piers or
foundations; d) the erection of temporary forms; or e) the installation on the
property of accessory buildings (such as garages or sheds) not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual "start of construction" means the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STORM CELLAR: A space below grade used to accommodate occupants of the
structure and emergency supplies as a means of temporary shelter against
tornadoes or similar wind storm activity.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure, either: a) before the improvement or repair is
started; or b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term
does not, however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a
structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary or safety
code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions; or b) any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register
of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this code when
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by said regulations.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the town's floodplain management regulations. A structure or
other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or
other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time as
that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (1992 Code § 4-130; amd. Ord. 188, 2-6-1992; 2005 Code)
9-5-2: REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS:
   A.   The planning commission and the town board of trustees shall review
subdivision and other development proposals to determine whether such proposals
will be safe from flooding.
   B.   If a subdivision or other development proposal is in a flood prone
area, the planning commission and the town board of trustees shall ensure that:
      1.   Such proposals are consistent with the community's adopted
comprehensive plan and the need to minimize flood damage;
      2.   All public utilities and facilities are located and constructed to
avoid, minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      3.   Adequate drainage provisions are made; and
      4.   Proposals of more than five (5) lots or five (5) acres shall include
100-year flood elevation data. (1992 Code § 4-130)
CHAPTER 6
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Carports
9-6-2: Address Numbers
9-6-1: CARPORTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide regulations for the
location and construction of carports within the corporate boundaries of the
Town.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   Carports must be at least fifteen feet (15') from the edge of any
Town easement;
      2.   Carport shells must set back from adjacent property line not less
than five feet (5') unless adjacent to a solid wooden, metal or masonry fence;
      3.   Carport opening cannot be higher than eight feet (8') unless it is
for a recreational vehicle which would require the approval of the Town Board
of Trustees;
      4.   Carports must be pre-manufactured or have prior approval from the
Town Board of Trustees; and
      5.   All carports must be approved by the Town Board of Trustees or Town
Code Enforcement with regard to location and construction requirements. (Ord.
264, 5-10-2012)
9-6-2: ADDRESS NUMBERS:
   A.   Required: All owners or persons in possession of residential and/or
commercial structures in the Town of Carnegie, Oklahoma shall be required to
place or mount prominently on the front of each such structure numbers approved
or assigned by the Town Clerk reflecting that property's address or house
number. Said numbers shall be in numerical form and be at least three inches
(3") in height and in contrasting color to the balance of the structure.
   B.   Utilities Withheld: No utilities shall be provided to such structures
until said numbers are assigned and placed or mounted thereon.
   C.   Penalty Imposed: In addition to withholding utilities subject to
subsection B of this section, any violation of this section shall be deemed an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine in the
amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00). Every month in which a violation continues
shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 237, 11-10-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
 
