CHANDLER, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation curent through Ord. 2024-04, passed 10-8-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY CHARTER
Effective April 8, 1955
CHANDLER CITY CHARTER TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Section
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, POWERS
Incorporation         
1.1
Form Of Government
   1.2
Powers Of The City      
1.3
 
ARTICLE II. THE COUNCIL
Number, Qualifications   
2.1
Mayor And Vice-Mayor   
2.2
Compensation      
2.3
Powers         
2.4
Council Not To Interfere In Appointments And Removals   
2.5
City Clerk To Be Clerical Officer Of Council   
2.6
Induction Into Office, Meetings   
2.7
Absences To Terminate Membership   
2.8
Removal         
2.9
Vacancies         
2.10
Quorum, Rules, Yeas And Nays   
2.11
Ordinances; Enacting Clause   
2.12
Ordinances; Passage, When In Effect   
2.13
Ordinances; Emergency      
2.14
Ordinances; Adoption By Reference   
2.15
Ordinances; Codification      
2.16
 
ARTICLE III. CITY MANAGER AND ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
City Manager; Appointment, Term, Qualifications, Removal   
3.1
Acting City Manager         
3.2
City Manager; Powers And Duties   
3.3
Administrative Departments, Offices And Agencies   
3.4
Public Library         
3.5
 
ARTICLE IV. DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, FISCAL AFFAIRS
City Clerk; Office Created, Duties   
4.1
City Treasurer; Office Created, Duties   
4.2
Purchases And Sales      
4.3
Sale Of Property Valued At More Than $20,000   
4.4
Public Improvements      
4.5
Fiscal Year            
4.6
Independent Annual Audit      
4.7
 
ARTICLE V. MUNICIPAL COURT
Municipal Court         
5.1
 
ARTICLE VI. ELECTIONS
Terms Of Mayor And Councilmen; General Election
Only, Nonpartisan, Elected At Large   
6.1
Election; Filing            
6.2
Election; Time, Who Elected      
6.3
Political Activity Of Officers And Employees   
6.4
State Constitution And Law To Govern   
6.5
 
ARTICLE VII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Feminine Gender            
7.1
Initiative And Referendum         
7.2
Merit System               
7.3
Qualifications Of Officers And Employees   
7.4
Nepotism, Holding More Than One Office Or Position   
7.5
Official Bonds            
7.6
Oath Or Affirmation Of Office      
7.7
Who May Administer Oaths And Affirmations   
7.8
Removal Of Officers And Employees   
7.9
Acting Officers And Employees      
7.10
Officers To Continue Until Successors Are
Elected Or Appointed And Qualify   
7.11
Publicity Of Records         
7.12
Separability Clause            
7.13
 
ARTICLE VIII. AMENDMENTS
Proposal, Ratification, Approval      
8.1
Board Of Freeholders         
8.2
 
ARTICLE IX. SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT
New Charter To Go Into Effect When Approved
By The Governor            
9.1
Officers And Employees Continued   
9.2
Ordinances Continued         
9.3
Pending Actions And Proceedings   
9.4
 
Note: The above charter was approved by the electors of the City of Chandler on
April 5, 1955, by a vote of 379 to 196. It was approved by Governor Raymond
Gary on April 8, 1955, and went into effect on that date. The above charter
replaced a council-manager charter which was adopted in 1925.
PREAMBLE
We, the people of the City of Chandler, exercising the powers of home rule
granted to us by the Constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma, in order
to provide for more efficient, adequate and economical government, do hereby
ordain, ratify and establish this Charter of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma.
ARTICLE I
INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, POWERS
Section 1.1. Incorporation.
The City of Chandler, Oklahoma, within the corporate limits as now established
or as hereafter may be established, shall continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate in perpetuity under the name of the “City of Chandler,
Oklahoma”. It shall succeed to and possess all the property, rights,
privileges, franchises, powers and immunities now belonging to the corporation
known as the City of Chandler, Oklahoma; and shall be liable for all debts and
other obligations for which the corporation is now legally bound.
Section 1.2. Form Of Government.
The municipal government provided by this charter shall be known as the
“council-manager government”. All powers of the city shall be exercised in the
manner prescribed by this charter, or, if the manner is not thus prescribed,
then in such manner as the council may prescribe by ordinance.
Section 1.3. Powers Of The City.
The city shall have all powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and
immunities granted to cities by the state constitution and law, and all the
implied powers necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted. Except
as prohibited by the state constitution and law, the city shall have all
municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities of
every name and nature whatsoever.
The city shall have power to adopt a corporate seal and to alter it at
pleasure, to sue and to be sued, and to make contracts. It shall have power to
acquire property within or without its corporate limits for any city purpose,
including public utilities, works and ways, in fee simple or any lesser
interest or estate, by purchase, gift, devise, lease, condemnation or other
legal means; and to hold, maintain, improve, enlarge, manage, control, operate,
lease, sell, convey or otherwise dispose of, such property as its interests may
require, including public utilities, works and ways. It shall have power to
issue bonds in the manner and within the limitations prescribed by the state
constitution and law, to accept and administer federal and state grants-in-aid
and to do everything necessary to accomplish the purpose or purposes for which
such grants may be made. It shall have power to ordain and to enforce local
legislation, consistent with the state constitution and law, for the proper
organization and functioning of the city government, for the preservation and
enforcement of good government and order, for the protection of health, life,
morals and property, for the prevention, summary abatement and removal of
nuisances, and otherwise for the promotion of the common welfare. It shall have
power to grant, extend and renew franchises in accordance with the state
constitution and law.
The enumeration of particular powers by this charter shall not be deemed to be
exclusive or limiting; and in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, the city shall have all powers which, under the state
constitution and law, it would be competent for this charter specifically to
enumerate.
Provisions of state law relating to matters which may be regulated by cities
operating under charters, shall be in effect only insofar as they are
applicable and are not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
ARTICLE II
THE COUNCIL
Section 2.1. Number, Qualifications.
There shall be a council of five (5) members, which shall consist of the mayor
as ex officio councilman at large and one councilman from each of the four (4)
wards of the city as the wards are now constituted or as they may hereafter be
constituted by ordinance. Only qualified electors of the city shall be
qualified for the office of mayor. Only qualified electors residing in the city
and, at the time of their election, in the wards from which they are
respectively elected, shall be qualified for the offices of councilmen from the
wards. Removal of a councilman from one ward or precinct to another within the
city after his election, shall not disqualify him from completing the term for
which he was elected. Neither the mayor nor any other councilman may hold any
office or position in the city government by appointment by the city manager.
Section 2.2. Mayor And Vice-Mayor.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council and shall certify to the
correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He shall be
recognized as head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes and by
the governor for purposes of military law. As councilman at large, he shall
have all powers, rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of councilmen,
including the right to vote on all questions. He shall have no regular
administrative duties except that he shall sign such written obligations of the
city as the council may require. If a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor,
the council shall elect a qualified elector of the city, who may or may not
already be a councilman at the time, to be mayor for completion of the
unexpired term.
At the first meeting after the time prescribed for the beginning of the terms
of newly elected councilmen or as soon thereafter as practicable, the council
shall elect one of its members vice-mayor, who shall serve as such until the
next such first meeting. The vice-mayor shall act as mayor during the absence
or disability of the mayor, or, if a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor,
until another mayor is elected by the council and qualified. If the office of
vice-mayor becomes vacant, the council shall elect from its members another
vice-mayor for completion of the unexpired term.
Section 2.3. Compensation.
Neither the mayor nor any other councilman may receive any compensation as
mayor or councilman nor for any other service rendered the city, other than
expenses.
Section 2.4. Powers.
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all powers of the city, including
the determination of all matters of policy, shall be vested in the council.
Without limitation of the foregoing, the council may:
1. Appoint and remove the city manager as provided in this charter;
2. By ordinance enact municipal legislation;
3. Raise revenue, make appropriations, regulate bond elections, the issuance of
bonds, sinking funds, the refunding of indebtedness, salaries and wages, and
all other fiscal affairs of the city, subject to the provisions of the state
constitution and law and this charter;
4. Establish or adopt a pension, retirement and/or social security system or
systems for any or all groups of the officers and employees in the service of
the city, either alone or in cooperation with the state or federal government
or both;
5. Inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the city,
and investigate municipal affairs;
6. Appoint or elect and remove its own subordinates, the members of the
personnel board, the members of the planning commission, the members of the
board of adjustment and other quasi-legislative, quasi-judicial or advisory
officers and authorities, now or when and if established, or prescribe the
method of appointing or electing and removing them;
7. Grant pardons, including the remission of fines and costs, upon the
recommendation of the municipal judge;
8. Regulate elections and the initiative and referendum within the limits
prescribed by the state constitution and law and this charter;
9. Regulate the organization, powers, duties and functions of the municipal
court and of the minor violations bureau, when and if established, within the
limits prescribed by the state constitution and law and this charter; and
10. Create, change and abolish all offices, departments and agencies of the
city other than the offices, departments and agencies created by this charter;
and assign additional powers, duties and functions to offices, departments and
agencies created by this charter.
Section 2.5. Council Not To Interfere In Appointments And Removals.
Neither the mayor, the council nor any of its members may direct or request the
appointment of any person to, or his removal from, office or employment by the
city manager or by any other authority, or, except as provided in this charter,
participate in any manner in the appointment or removal of officers and
employees of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the mayor, the
council and its members shall deal with the administration service solely
through the city manager; and neither the mayor; the council nor any member
thereof may give orders on administrative matters to any subordinate of the
city manager either publicly or privately.
Section 2.6. City Clerk To Be Clerical Officer Of Council.
The city clerk, hereinafter provided for, shall also serve as clerical officer
of the council. He shall keep the journal of its proceedings, and shall enroll
in a book or books kept for the purpose all ordinances and resolutions passed
by it; shall be custodian of such documents, records and archives as may be
provided by applicable law or ordinance; shall be custodian of the seal of the
city; and shall attest and affix the seal to documents when required in
accordance with applicable law or ordinance.
Section 2.7. Induction Into Office, Meetings.
The terms of office of the mayor and other councilmen shall begin at 7:30 P.M.
on the first Monday in May following their election. The council shall hold a
meeting at that time, and those whose terms are beginning shall be inducted
into office. If the mayor-elect or any other councilman-elect fails to qualify
within one month thereafter, his office shall become vacant; and the council
shall fill the vacancy. The council shall meet regularly at least monthly at
such times as it may prescribe by ordinance or otherwise. The mayor or any
three (3) councilmen may call special meetings. All meetings of the council
shall be open to the public, and the journal of its proceedings shall be open
to public inspection. Provided, however, the city council shall be permitted to
conduct executive sessions as permitted by then-existing statutes. (Amended
1993)
Section 2.8. Absences To Terminate Membership.
If the mayor or any other councilman shall be absent from more than one-half
(1/2) of all the meetings of the council, regular and special, held within any
period of four (4) consecutive months, he shall thereupon cease to hold office.
Section 2.9. Removal.
The mayor or any other councilman may be removed from office for any cause
specified by applicable state law for the removal of officers, and by the
method or methods prescribed thereby.
Section 2.10. Vacancies.
The council, by majority vote of its remaining members, shall fill vacancies in
its own membership for the unexpired terms.
Section 2.11. Quorum, Rules, Yeas And Nays.
A majority of all of the members of the council shall constitute a quorum, but
a smaller number may adjourn from day to day or from time to time. The council
may determine its own rules. On the demand of any member, the vote on any
question shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be entered in the journal.
Section 2.12. Ordinances; Enacting Clause.
The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the council shall be, “Be it
ordained by the Council of the City of Chandler”, and of all ordinances
proposed by the voters under their power of initiative, “Be it ordained by the
People of the City of Chandler”.
Section 2.13. Ordinances; Passage, When In Effect.
Every proposed ordinance shall be read, and a vote of a majority of all the
councilmen shall be required for its passage. The vote on final passage of
every ordinance shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be entered in the journal.
The mayor shall have no power of veto. Within ten (10) days after its passage,
every ordinance shall be published in full or by title in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city. Every ordinance except an emergency
ordinance, shall become effective thirty (30) days after its finial passage
unless it specifies a later time; provided that an ordinance granting a
franchise to a public utility shall not go into effect until it has been
approved at an election by a vote of a majority of the qualified electors
voting on the question.
Section 2.14. Ordinances; Emergency.
An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which in the judgment of the council is
necessary for the immediate preservation of peace, health or safety, and which
should become effective prior to the time when an ordinary ordinance would
become effective. Every such ordinance shall contain, as a part of its title,
the words, “and declaring an emergency”; and in a separate section, herein
called the emergency section, shall declare the emergency. The council shall
vote on the emergency section separately, and must adopt the section by a vote
of at least four-fifths (4/5) of all the members of the council, which vote
shall be by yeas and nays, and be entered in the journal. An emergency
ordinance shall take effect upon passage unless it specifies a later time.
Section 2.15. Ordinances; Adoption By Reference.
The council by ordinance may adapt by reference codes, ordinances and standards
relating to building, plumbing, electrical installations, milk and milk
products, and other matters which it has power to regulate otherwise. Such a
code, ordinance or standard so adopted need not be enrolled in the book of
ordinances; but a copy shall be filed and kept in the office of the city clerk.
The city clerk shall keep copies of every such code, ordinance or standard in
force for distribution or sale at their approximate cost.
Section 2.16. Ordinances; Codification.
The ordinances of the city shall be codified and published in book or pamphlet
form at least every ten (10) years unless the council, by use of a loose-leaf
system and process of amendment, keeps the code up-to-date. Titles, enacting
clauses and emergency sections may be omitted from the code; and temporary and
special ordinances and parts of ordinances may be omitted. Permanent general
ordinances and parts of ordinances which are to be repealed by the code, shall
be omitted from the code. The ordinances and parts of ordinances included in
the code may be revised, rearranged and reorganized; and the code may contain
new matter, provisions of the state constitution and law relating to the city
and provisions of this charter. A copy of the published code shall be filed in
the office of the city clerk after adoption by the council, but the code need
not be enrolled in the book of ordinances.
ARTICLE III
CITY MANAGER AND ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
Section 3.1. City Manager; Appointment, Term, Qualifications, Removal.
There shall be a city manager. The council shall appoint him for an indefinite
term by a vote of a majority of all its members. It shall choose him solely on
the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications. At the time of
his appointment, he need not be a resident of the city or state; but, during
his tenure of office, he shall reside within the city. Neither the mayor nor
any other councilman may be appointed city manager during the term for which he
shall have been elected nor within two (2) years after the expiration of his
term. The council may suspend or remove the city manager at any time by a vote
of a majority of all its members.
Section 3.2. Acting City Manager.
If the city manager is absent from the city or is unable to perform his duties,
if the council suspends the city manager, or if there is a vacancy in the
office of city manager, the council may appoint an acting city manager to serve
until the city manager returns, until his disability or suspension ceases, or
until another city manager is appointed and qualifies, as the case may be. The
council may suspend or remove an acting city manager at any time.
Section 3.3. City Manager; Powers And Duties.
The city manager shall be chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He shall execute the laws and
ordinances and administer the government of the city, and shall be responsible
therefor to the council. He shall:
1. Appoint, and when necessary for the good of the service, suspend, demote or
remove all directors, or heads, of administrative departments and all other
administrative officers and employees of the city except as he or the council
by ordinance may authorize the head of a department, an offices or an agency to
appoint and suspend, demote or remove subordinates in such department, office
or agency, subject to such merit system regulations as the council may ordain;
2. Supervise and control, directly or indirectly, all administrative
departments, agencies, officers and employees;
3. Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the council, be responsible for
the administration of the budget after it goes into effect, and recommend to
the council any changes in the budget which he deems desirable;
4. Submit to the council a report as of the end of the fiscal year on the
finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year;
5. Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of the
city, and make such recommendations as may seem to him desirable; and
6. Perform such other duties as this charter may prescribe and such duties
consistent with this charter as the council may prescribe.
Section 3.4. Administrative Departments, Offices And Agencies.
There shall be a department of finance, a police department, a fire department,
a department of law headed by a city attorney, and such other administrative
departments, offices and agencies as this charter establishes and as the
council may establish.
Section 3.5. Public Library.
The public library or libraries, when and if established, shall constitute, or
be a part of, an administrative department; and shall be under the supervision
and control of an officer or of a board established by ordinance and appointed
by the city manager, as the council may ordain.
ARTICLE IV
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, FISCAL AFFAIRS
Section 4.1. City Clerk; Office Created, Duties.
There shall be a city clerk, who shall be an officer of the city appointed by
the city manager for an indefinite term, and who shall be head of the
department of finance. Subject to such regulations as the council may
prescribe, the city clerk shall collect or receive revenue and other money for
the city, and shall deposit the same with the city treasurer or for the city
treasurer in an account or accounts maintained by the city treasurer in a
depository or depositories. The city clerk shall maintain a general accounting
system for the city government. He shall have such other powers, duties and
functions as may be prescribed by the charter, by applicable law or by
ordinance.
Section 4.2. City Treasurer; Office Created, Duties.
Within the department of finance, there shall be a city treasurer, who shall be
an officer of the city appointed by the council for an indefinite term;
provided also that the same person may hold both the office of city clerk and
the office of city treasurer, and that the council by ordinance may provide
that the city clerk shall be ex-officio city treasurer and that an acting city
clerk shall be ex-officio acting city treasurer. Subject to such regulations as
the council may prescribe, the city treasurer shall deposit funds received for
the city in such depositories as the council may designate. He shall have such
other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by the charter, by
applicable law or by ordinance.
Section 4.3. Purchases And Sales.
The city manager, subject to any regulations which the council may prescribe,
shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase authorizations for, all
supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments and agencies of
the city government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding an amount to be
established by ordinance, shall require the prior approval of the council. The
city manager also may transfer to or between offices, departments and agencies,
or sell, surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and equipment, subject to such
regulations as the council may prescribe.
Before the purchase of, or contract for, any supplies, materials or equipment,
or the sale of any surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment, ample
opportunity for competitive bidding, under such regulations, and with such
exceptions, as the council may prescribe, shall be given; but the council shall
not except a particular contract, purchase or sale from the requirement of
competitive bidding.
The council by ordinance may transfer some or all of the power granted to the
city manager by this section, relating to purchases and sales, to an officer
appointed by and subordinate to the city manager.
Section 4.4. Sale Of Property Valued At More Than $20,000.
The sale of any property, real or personal, including public utilities, or of
any interest therein, the value of which is more than Twenty Thousand Dollars
($20,000.00) shall be made only by authority of a special non-emergency
ordinance. Such ordinance shall be published in full in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city within ten (10) days after its passage, and shall
include a section reading substantially as follows: “Section           . This
ordinance shall be referred to a vote of the electors of the city if a proper
referendum petition is properly filed within thirty days after its passage;
otherwise it shall go into effect thirty days after its passage”.
Section 4.5 Public Improvements.
Public improvements may be made by the city government itself or by contract.
The council shall award all contracts for such improvements; provided that the
council may authorize the city manager to award such contracts not exceeding an
amount to be determined by the council and subject to such regulations as the
council may prescribe. Every contract for public improvements of more than Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00) shall be awarded to the lowest and best responsible
bidder after such notice and opportunity for competitive bidding as the council
may prescribe. All bids may be rejected, and further notice and opportunity for
competitive bidding may be given.
Section 4.6. Fiscal Year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July and
shall end on the last day of June of every calendar year.
Section 4.7. Independent Annual Audit.
The council shall designate a qualified public accountant or accountants who
shall make an independent audit of the accounts and evidences of financial
transactions of the department of finances and of all other departments,
offices and agencies keeping separate or subordinate accounts or making
financial transactions, as of the end of every fiscal year at least, and who
shall report to the council and to the city manager. In lieu of the above, the
council may arrange with an appropriate state authority for such an audit when
and if permitted by law.
ARTICLE V
MUNICIPAL COURT
Section 5.1. Municipal Court.
There shall be a municipal judge, who shall be an officer of the city appointed
by the city manager for an indefinite term. The council may suspend or remove
the municipal judge or acting municipal judge at any time by a vote of a
majority of all its members. The municipal judge shall have original
jurisdiction to hear and determine all cases involving offenses against the
charter and ordinances of the city; provided that the council by ordinance may
create a minor violations bureau with authority to dispose of cases arising out
of designated minor violations, such as minor traffic and parking violations,
on request of accused persons who desire to plead guilty, and who are able and
willing to pay fines and costs, and who do plead guilty and pay fines and
costs. The municipal judge shall keep a record of all proceedings of the
municipal court, of the disposition of all cases, and of all fines and other
money collected. The style of all processes shall be in the name of the city.
The municipal judge may issue subpoenas, administer oaths, make and enforce all
proper orders, rules and judgments, and punish for contempt.
ARTICLE VI
ELECTIONS
Section 6.1. Terms Of Mayor And Councilmen; General Election Only, Nonpartisan,
Elected At Large.
The electors shall elect the mayor in every odd-numbered year for a term of two
(2) years. The electors shall elect the councilman from Ward One and the
councilman from Ward Three in 1959 and in every fourth year thereafter for
terms of four (4) years; and the councilman from Ward Two and the councilman
from Ward Four in 1957 and in every fourth year thereafter for terms of four
(4) years.
There shall be no primary election, but only a general election.
The election shall be nonpartisan, and no party designation or emblem shall be
placed on the ballots.
The mayor and all councilmen shall be elected at large, by the qualified
electors of the entire city, although candidates for councilmen from the wards
must be qualified electors of their respective wards.
Section 6.2. Election; Filing.
Any qualified person may have his name placed on the ballot for the election as
a candidate for mayor or councilman by filing not more than thirty (30) days
and at least fifteen (15) days prior to the election, with the secretary of the
county election board, a sworn statement of his candidacy.
Section 6.3. Election; Time, Who Elected.
An election shall be held on the first Tuesday in April of every odd-numbered
year to elect the mayor and the councilman to succeed those whose terms are
about to expire that year. If only one person is a candidate for an office, he
shall be elected ipso facto; and his name shall appear on the ballot. Every
qualified elector of the city shall be entitled to vote for one candidate for
each office to be filled. The candidate for an office receiving more votes than
any other candidate for the office, shall be elected. In case of a tie, the
election shall be determined fairly by lot among the candidates tying, in a
meeting of the council and under its direction.
Section 6.4. Political Activity Of Officers And Employees.
No officer or employee of the city except the mayor and other councilmen, may
attempt to influence the nomination, election or defeat of any candidate for
mayor or councilman; provided that this shall not prohibit the ordinary
exercise of his right to express his opinions and to vote. Any person who
violates this provision, shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, by a fine
not exceeding Twenty Dollars ($20.00) inclusive of costs. Such violation shall
constitute cause for removal from office or employment.
Section 6.5. State Constitution And Law To Govern.
The precinct and county election boards shall conduct the elections of the
city, including special elections. The provisions of the state constitution and
law relating to elections, shall govern such elections insofar as they are
applicable and are not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
ARTICLE VII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 7.1. Feminine Gender.
When the masculine gender is used in this charter, it shall also mean the
feminine unless the masculine alone is clearly indicated.
Section 7.2. Initiative And Referendum.
The powers of the initiative and referendum are reserved to the people of the
city. In the exercise of these powers, the requirements of the state
constitution and law shall be observed.
Section 7.3 Merit System.
Appointments and promotions in the service of the city shall be made solely on
the basis of merit and fitness; and layoffs, suspensions, demotions and
removals shall be made solely for the good of the service. Better to achieve
these ends, the council may establish a merit system and provide for its proper
organization and functioning and for proper personnel administration.
Section 7.4. Qualifications Of Officers And Employees.
Officers and employees of the city shall have the qualifications prescribed by
this charter and such additional qualifications as the council may prescribe by
ordinance; but the council shall not prescribe additional qualifications for
mayor and councilmen.
Section 7.5 Nepotism, Holding More Than One Office Or Position.
Neither the city manager, the council nor any other authority of the city
government, may appoint or elect any person related to any councilman, to the
city manager, or to himself, or, in the case of a plural authority, to one of
its members, by affinity or consanguinity within the third degree, to any
office or position of profit in the city government.
Except as may be otherwise provided by this charter or by ordinance, the same
person may hold more than one office or position in the city government. The
city manager may hold more than one such office or position, through
appointment by himself, by the council or by other city authority having power
to fill the particular office or position, subject to any regulations which the
council may make by ordinance; but he may not receive compensation for service
in such other offices and positions. Also the council by ordinance may provide
that the city manager shall hold ex-officio designated administrative offices
subordinate to the city manager as well as other designated compatible city
offices.
Section 7.6. Official Bonds.
The city manager, the city clerk, the city treasurer and such other officers
and employees as the council may designate, before entering upon their duties,
shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their respective duties,
payable to the city, in such form and in such amounts as the council may
prescribe, with a surety company authorized to operate within the state. The
city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
Section 7.7. Oath Or Affirmation Of Office.
Every officer of the city, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall
take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the state
constitution. The oath or affirmation shall be filed and kept in the city
clerk’s office.
Section 7.8. Who May Administer Oaths And Affirmations.
All officers authorized by federal or state law, the mayor, the city manager,
the city clerk, the heads of all other administrative departments, the
municipal judge and such other officers as the council may authorize, may
administer oaths and affirmations.
Section 7.9. Removal Of Officers And Employees.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the power to lay off, suspend,
demote and remove accompanies the power to appoint or elect; and the city
manager or other appointing or electing authority at any time may lay off,
suspend, demote or remove any officer or employee to whom he or the other
appointing or electing authority respectively may appoint or elect a successor.
Section 7.10. Acting Officers And Employees.
The appointing or electing authority who may appoint or elect the successor of
an officer or employee, may appoint or elect a person to act during the
temporary absence, disability or suspension of such officer or employee, or, in
case of vacancy, until a successor is appointed or elected and qualifies,
unless the council ordains that a particular superior or subordinate of such
officer or employee shall act. The council by ordinance may provide for a
deputy to act in such cases.
Section 7.11. Officers To Continue Until Successors Are Elected Or Appointed
And Qualify.
Every officer who is elected or appointed for a term ending at a definite time,
shall continue to serve thereafter until his successor is elected or appointed
and qualifies unless his services are sooner terminated by resignation,
removal, disqualification, abolition of the office or other legal manner.
Section 7.12. Publicity Of Records.
All records and accounts of every office, department or agency of the city
government, except records and documents the disclosure of which would tend to
defeat the lawful purpose which they are intended to accomplish, shall be open
to public inspection.
Section 7.13. Separability Clause.
If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold any section or part of a
section of this charter invalid, such holding shall not affect the remainder of
this charter nor the context in which such section or part of a section so held
invalid may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of a
section may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with that section or
part of a section.
If a court of competent jurisdiction holds a part of this charter invalid or if
a change in the state constitution or law renders a part of this charter
invalid or inapplicable, the council by ordinance may take such appropriate
action as will enable the city government to function properly.
ARTICLE VIII
AMENDMENTS
Section 8.1. Proposal, Ratification, Approval.
This charter may be amended by proposals therefor submitted by the council, or
by the mayor upon initiative petition of the people as provided by the state
constitution, at a general or special election, ratified by a majority of the
qualified electors voting thereon, and approved by the governor as provided by
the state constitution. If more than one amendment is proposed, all of them
except those which are so interrelated that they should be ratified or rejected
together, shall be submitted in such manner that the electors may vote on them
separately. A proposition to amend this charter may be either in the form of a
proposed amendment to a part or parts of the charter or of a proposed new
charter.
Section 8.2. Board Of Freeholders.
The council by ordinance may provide for the election of a board of freeholders
to prepare and propose amendments to this charter. When an amendment proposed
by a board of freeholders shall have been submitted by the council at a general
or special election, ratified by a majority of the qualified electors voting
thereon, and approved by the governor, as provided by the state constitution,
it shall go into effect.
ARTICLE IX
SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT
Section 9.1. New Charter To Go Into Effect When Approved By The Governor.
If a majority of the qualified electors of the city voting on the question vote
to ratify this charter, it shall go into effect immediately upon approval by
the governor; and the heretofore existing charter shall be repealed as of that
time.
Section 9.2. Officers And Employees Continued.
The mayor and commissioners under the previous charter shall continue in office
under this charter until the expiration of the terms for which they were
elected or appointed and until their respective successors are elected and
qualify; and the mayor and commissioners elected at the election in 1955 shall
serve the terms for which they are elected, their terms beginning at 1:30 P.M.
on the first Monday in May, 1955. The title of the commissioners under this
charter shall be “councilman” instead of “commissioner”.
All other officers and employees of the city under the previous charter shall
continue in the offices and employments which they respectively hold, after
this charter goes into effect, and until their services terminate or are
terminated in accordance with the provisions of this charter.
Section 9.3. Ordinances Continued.
All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this charter, shall
continue in effect until they are repealed or until they expire by their own
limitations.
Section 9.4. Pending Actions And Proceedings.
The adoption of this charter shall not abate or otherwise affect any action or
proceeding, civil or criminal, pending when it takes full effect, brought by or
against the municipality or any office, department, agency or officer thereof.
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
1.    OFFICIAL CITY CODE
         
2.    SAVING CLAUSE
         
3.    DEFINITIONS
         
4.    GENERAL PENALTY
         
5.    CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
         
6.    CITY COUNCIL
         
7.    CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
         
8.    RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
         
9.    MUNICIPAL COURT
         
10.    FEE SCHEDULE
         
11.    IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 1: OFFICIAL CITY CODE
Section
   
1-1-1   Title
   
1-1-2   Acceptance
   
1-1-3   Amendments
   
1-1-4   Ordinances in Effect in Outlying Territory
   
1-1-5   Code Alterations
§ 1-1-1 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the City Council, this city code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Chandler. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CHANDLER CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents.
§ 1-1-2 ACCEPTANCE.
   The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title.
§ 1-1-3 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, or added, and this
shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city
code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately
forwarded to the codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared
for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of the city code.
§ 1-1-4 ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY.
   (A)   Provisions Extended. All provisions of this code and other ordinances
of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended to all real
property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside the corporate
limits of the city, and shall be in full force and effect thereon insofar as
they are applicable.
   (B)   Future Ordinances. All ordinances of the city which shall go into
effect in the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the
boundaries of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable.
   (C)   Word Interpretation. Any words in any such provision indicating that
its effect is limited to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to
mean and include also such outlying real property belonging to, or under the
control of, the city, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
§ 1-1-5 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby; provided,
that supplementation of this code by authorized persons shall be permitted. Any
person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
   
1-2-1   Repeal of General Ordinances
   
1-2-2   Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
   
1-2-3   Court Proceedings
   
1-2-4   Severability Clause
§ 1-2-1 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances.
§ 1-2-2 PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of
the preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
§ 1-2-3 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Prior Acts.
      (1)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
      (2)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   Extend to All Repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Current Pending Actions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code.
§ 1-2-4 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code or of any ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional,
illegal or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this code.
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
1-3-1   Construction of Words
   
1-3-2   Definitions, General
   
1-3-3   Catchlines
§ 1-3-1 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this city code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this city code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   (B)   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to “title”, “chapter”, “section” and/
or “subsection” or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city’s ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   (C)   Words and phrases which are not specifically defined shall be
construed according to the common and accepted usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
§ 1-3-2 DEFINITIONS, GENERAL.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CLEET. Council on law enforcement and education training.
   CITY. The city of Chandler, county of Lincoln, state of Oklahoma. This term
shall be construed as if the words “of Chandler, Oklahoma” followed it.
   CODE. The city code of the city of Chandler.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to
be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the
time, but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
   COUNTY. The county of Lincoln, state of Oklahoma.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
city of Chandler”.
   GENDER. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to the
other gender and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving “joint authority” to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   LAW. Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   MANAGER or CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city of Chandler.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city of Chandler.
   MISDEMEANOR or PUBLIC OFFENSE. Any violation or failure to comply with any
of the terms, conditions or requirements of any ordinance, or section or part
thereof, contained in this code.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OS. Oklahoma Statutes.
   OATH. Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words “swear” and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and
“affirmed”.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFICERS, OFFICIALS. Whenever reference is made to officers, agencies or
departments by title only, i.e., “Clerk”, “City Clerk”, “City Attorney”, “fire
chief”, “chief of police” and the like, they shall mean the officers, agencies
or departments of the city of Chandler.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OR/AND. “Or” may be read “and”, and “and” may be read “or”, if the sense
requires it.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Shall include real and personal property.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to statutes of the state of Oklahoma as
they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   STREET. Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WEEK. Seven (7) days.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person’s proper mark.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 1-3-3 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
1-4-1   General and Specific Penalties
   
1-4-2   Fines Recoverable by Civil Action
   
1-4-3   Application of Provisions
   
1-4-4   Liability of Officers
§ 1-4-1 GENERAL AND SPECIFIC PENALTIES.
   (A)   Penalty Imposed. Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever
in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code
or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine or imprisonment not exceeding that which is then
authorized by state statute to be imposed by municipal courts not of record;
provided however, that no fine shall be imposed which is in excess of the
maximum allowable fine for the same offense under state law. Each day or any
portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of any ordinance
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Aiding or Abetting Violation. Any person who shall aid, abet or assist
in the violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in this section.
   (C)   Animals Running at Large, Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation
violating the terms of section
6-4-3  of this code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
established by the city’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 10-5-2004)
§ 1-4-2 FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION.
   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
§ 1-4-3 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of Penalty. The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   (B)   Acts Punishable under Different Sections. In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Breach of Provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
§ 1-4-4 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
CHAPTER 5: CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
Section
   
1-5-1   Official Map; Corporate Boundaries
   
1-5-2   Ward Numbers and Boundaries
§ 1-5-1 OFFICIAL MAP; CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The map of the city showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the city, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the city, including all
annexations made to the city.
§ 1-5-2 WARD NUMBERS AND BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall be divided into four (4) wards and boundaries as follows:
   FIRST WARD: The first ward shall consist of all that territory of the city
lying east of the center of Cleveland Avenue in the city, and extending east to
Industrial Road, and all other territory east of Industrial Road that is
incorporated within the Chandler limits. This area also includes a small area
from Moorman Drive east to Sandy Lane, and extends south to just north of
Eighth Street.
   SECOND WARD: The second ward shall consist of all that territory of the city
lying west of the center of Cleveland Avenue in the city, and continuing west
to Memorial Road, and then north of Sixth Street, which also includes a small
area north of Ponderosa Drive, and east of Cleveland Avenue, to North Iowa.
   THIRD WARD: The third ward shall consist of all that territory of the city
lying between the centers of Sixth Street and Ninth Street and extending west
to Post Road, and east to Moorman Drive. Then it extends to the south to
Twelfth Street, from National Drive on the west, to Bennett on the east.
   FOURTH WARD: The fourth ward shall consist of all that territory of the city
lying south of the center of Eighth Street, south to Fifteenth Street,
extending west to Post Road, and east to National Drive. This also includes an
area south of Twelfth Street, and north of Fifteenth Street, extending from
National Drive on the west, and east to Summer Lane. This area also extends
south of Fifteenth Street in an area from South Iowa, east to Summer Lane. And
the housing addition south of Fifteenth Street between Post Road and Memorial
Road, and extending south to Cross Timber Drive.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-23-2015)
CHAPTER 6: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
1-6-1   Council Meetings
Charter reference:
   Council, see §§
2.1  through
2.11
§ 1-6-1 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meeting Place.
      (1)   Every meeting of the City Council shall be held in the council
chamber of the city hall unless, in case of emergency, the Mayor or the council
members calling a special meeting, designate another place in the city for the
holding of the special meeting.
      (2)   An adjourned meeting may be held at any other place within the city
designated by the council.
   (B)   Time of Meeting. The City Council shall fix the time of each following
year’s regular meetings by resolution in December of each year.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-12-2023)
CHAPTER 7: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-7-1   Number and Classes of Employees; Compensation
   
1-7-2   Bonds of Officers
   
1-7-3   Affirmative Action Plan; Coordinator
   
1-7-4   Employee Benefits
   
1-7-5   Sources of Compensation Limited
   
1-7-6   Payroll Disbursements
Article A. City Manager
   
1-7A-1   Powers and Duties
   
1-7A-2   Assistant to City Manager
Article B. City Clerk and City Treasurer
   
1-7B-1   City Clerk
   
1-7B-2   City Treasurer
   
1-7B-3   Combining of Offices
Article C. City Attorney
   
1-7C-1   Appointment or Removal
   
1-7C-2   Powers and Duties
Article D. Public Works Director and Department
   
1-7D-1   Appointment of Director
   
1-7D-2   Duties of Department
Article E. Building Official
   
1-7E-1   Appointment; Supervisory Powers
   
1-7E-2   Enforcement of Regulations
   
1-7E-3   Duties of Inspectors
§ 1-7-1 NUMBER AND CLASSES OF EMPLOYEES; COMPENSATION.
   The City Council, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may regulate the
number and classes of officers and positions of employment in the various
departments, offices and agencies of the city government, and may determine or
regulate the compensation to be paid to officers and employees. This action
must conform to the established affirmative action plan of the city.
§ 1-7-2 BONDS OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Bonds for Certain Officers. Before entering upon their official
duties, the following personnel of the city government shall provide bonds for
the faithful performance of their official duties, payable to the city, with a
surety company authorized to operate within the state, in the amounts as
approved by the City Council:
      (1)   City manager;
      (2)   City Clerk;
      (3)   City treasurer;
      (4)   City Clerk and City Treasurer, in case same person holds both
offices; and
      (5)   All police officers.
   (B)   Other Officers and Employees. The City Council, by motion or
resolution, may require other officers and employees in such positions as it
may designate to be bonded.
   (C)   Premiums Paid by City. The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
§ 1-7-3 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN; COORDINATOR.
   (A)   Plan Created. There is hereby created an affirmative action plan to
provide equal opportunity within the city government. It shall be the policy of
the city that no person shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race,
creed, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, or handicap, unless such
action is related to a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably
necessary to the normal operation of the city, in employment or other
activities sponsored directly or indirectly by the city.
   (B)   Appointment of Coordinator; Duties. The City Council shall appoint a
coordinator to develop a program of affirmative action for equal opportunity.
Such program shall contain self-imposed goals deemed reasonable by the City
Council and shall contain procedures for periodic evaluation to determine
changes when necessary. The coordinator shall work with the substate planning
district and state human rights offices in the development of this program.
   (C)   Program Evaluation; Committee. Any evaluation of the affirmative
action program shall be conducted by a committee chosen by the City Council
consisting of a cross section of citizens so as to include minorities.
§ 1-7-4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.
   The Mayor and City Council are hereby authorized to execute any and all
necessary agreements to provide whatever employee benefits are required by
state law or which the council determines to be necessary for proper and just
protection of all city employees.
§ 1-7-5 SOURCES OF COMPENSATION LIMITED.
   Neither the municipal judge nor any other officer or employee of the city
government may receive as compensation any fee of any kind except as may be
specifically provided by ordinance passed hereafter; and all fees and other
money collected for the city by an officer or employee shall be paid to the
City Clerk.
§ 1-7-6 PAYROLL DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   For all employees and officers of the city, a documented record shall
be maintained in a personnel file of the authorized rate of pay or salary and
authorized deductions for each employee or officer.
   (B)   For each pay period, a documented record of time worked and leave
taken shall be prepared, in the form of time sheets, cards or logs, for each
employee and officer to be paid. For employees exempt from the overtime
provisions of the fair labor standards act, the record may exclude time worked.
Such record of time worked and leave taken shall be verified as to its accuracy
in writing by the employee or officer and the supervisor or department head.
   (C)   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll statement or register,
including the amount of gross pay, authorized deductions and net pay, shall be
prepared and submitted to the City Manager for approval.
   (D)   Upon approval of the payroll statement or register, the net payroll
checks shall be prepared along with checks or wire transfers for payment of
related payroll taxes and other payroll benefits, required by law or contract.
Direct deposits may be used as an alternative to checks and wire transfers.
   (E)   No payroll related encumbrances are required to be recorded in the
budgetary accounting records as long as the payroll costs are recorded as
expenditures at the time they become due and payable. However, no payroll costs
may be incurred or paid if they exceed the available appropriation for the
purposes as established by the City Council.
   (F)   The City Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the payroll costs incurred and/or paid for the
pay period.
   (G)   A copy of the payroll statement, register or payroll check register
may be provided to the City Council for informational purposes; however, the
City Council approval is not required prior to the payment of payroll related
costs if incurred and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER
§ 1-7A-1 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. He
shall have all powers and duties prescribed for him by the city charter and by
ordinance. He shall have administrative supervision and control, directly or
indirectly, over all administrative departments, agencies, officers and
employees of the city.
Charter reference:
   City Manager, see §§
3.1 through
3.3
§ 1-7A-2 ASSISTANT TO CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Office Created; Appointment. There shall be created an office of
assistant to the City Manager. The assistant to the City Manager shall be
appointed by the City Manager with approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Duties. Said assistant shall have administrative supervision and
control over any and all administrative departments, agencies, officers and
employees of the city as prescribed by the City Manager.
   (C)   Termination. Termination of the assistant to the City Manager shall be
at the direction of the City Manager with approval of the City Council.
Charter reference:
   City Manager, see §§
3.1 through
3.3
ARTICLE B. CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER
§ 1-7B-1 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment; Administrative Powers.
      (1)   There shall be a department of finance, the head of which shall be
the City Clerk appointed by the City Manager for an indefinite term and
removable by the manager.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall be an officer of the city and shall have
supervision and control of the department of finance.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall collect or receive revenue and other money for
the city, and shall deposit the same daily with the City Treasurer or for the
City Treasurer in an account or accounts maintained by the City Treasurer in a
depository or depositories.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall maintain a general accounting system for the
city government.
      (3)   He shall have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by city charter, by applicable law or by ordinance.
Charter reference:
   City Clerk, see §§
4.1 and
4.2
§ 1-7B-2 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment; Administrative Powers. Within the department of finance,
there shall be a City Treasurer, who shall be an officer of the city and who
shall be appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit daily all funds coming into his
hands by four o’clock (4:00) P.M. the previous business day and at such other
times as the treasurer deems necessary. Such deposit shall be made into
depositories as the council may designate.
      (2)   The treasurer shall disburse such funds in the manner provided by
applicable law or ordinance.
      (3)   He shall have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by the city charter, by applicable law, or by other ordinance.
(Ord. 2003-05, passed 6-3-2003)
Charter reference:
   City Clerk, see §§
4.1 and
4.2
§ 1-7B-3 COMBINING OF OFFICES.
   The same person may hold both the office of City Clerk and the office of
City Treasurer; that is, the City Council may appoint as City Treasurer the
same person whom the manager has appointed as City Clerk, and vice versa, as
provided by the city charter.
Charter reference:
   City Clerk, see §§
4.1 and
4.2
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
§ 1-7C-1 APPOINTMENT OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Appointment. There shall be a department of law, the head of which
shall be the City Attorney after nomination by the City Manager and given
majority vote by the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   Removal. Removal of the City Attorney shall be at the discretion of
the Mayor and council.
§ 1-7C-2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Attorney shall have and perform the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Supervision of Law Department. Be an officer of the city, and shall
have supervision and control of the department of law.
   (B)   Legal Advisor to Council. Be the chief legal adviser to the council,
all officers, departments and agencies of the city government in matters
relating to their official powers and duties.
   (C)   Represent City in Court Proceedings. Represent the city in proceedings
in the courts.
   (D)   Other Services. Perform all services incident to this position which
may be required by law or ordinance.
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR AND DEPARTMENT
§ 1-7D-1 APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment. There may be a public works department, the head of which
shall be appointed by the City Manager for an indefinite term, and removable by
the manager; provided, that the City Manager may be ex officio Director of
Public Works unless he appoints another to serve in this capacity.
   (B)   Supervision of Department. The Director of Public Works shall be an
officer of the city, and shall have supervision and control of the public works
department.
§ 1-7D-2 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the public works department, insofar as the city
government performs these functions with its own personnel, to:
   (A)   Construct, improve, maintain and clean streets (including alleys and
other public ways), bridges and sidewalks; to install and maintain
streetlights, traffic control signs, markings, signals and devices; to erect
and maintain street name signs; and to supervise the use of streets by
privately owned utilities;
   (B)   Construct, improve, maintain and operate storm and sanitary sewers and
sewage disposal facilities;
   (C)   Maintain all buildings and grounds used by the city;
   (D)   Maintain and operate all parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, and other
recreational facilities operated by the city;
   (E)   Maintain and operate all city owned cemeteries;
   (F)   Maintain city owned motor equipment;
   (G)   Maintain and operate the water system and any other city owned
utilities and public services; and
   (H)   Perform such other functions relating to the maintenance, repair,
improvement and operation of the physical facilities owned or used by the city
government as the City Manager may prescribe consistent with the city charter
and ordinances.
ARTICLE E. BUILDING OFFICIAL
§ 1-7E-1 APPOINTMENT; SUPERVISORY POWERS.
   (A)   Appointment or City Manager to Act. There may be a department of
building inspection the head of which shall be the Building Official. Unless he
appoints another to be the Building Official, the City Manager shall himself be
ex officio Building Official.
   (B)   Supervisory Powers. The Building Official shall have supervision and
control of the department, including any inspectors whom the City Manager may
appoint, such as the building inspector, plumbing inspector, electrical
inspector and other inspectors of the building and construction trades.
§ 1-7E-2 ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The Building Official shall see that all laws, ordinances and other
regulations relating to building, plumbing and electrical installations are
properly enforced, except as may be otherwise provided by applicable law or
ordinance.
§ 1-7E-3 DUTIES OF INSPECTORS.
   The building inspector, plumbing inspector, electrical inspector and any
other such inspectors, under the supervision and control of the Building
Official, shall have such powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
applicable law or ordinance.
CHAPTER 8: RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
Section
   
1-8-1   Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement System
   
1-8-2   Employee Retirement System
§ 1-8-1 FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Local Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board. There is hereby
created a local firefighters’ pension and retirement board composed of the
Mayor, the Clerk, the treasurer and three (3) members from the fire department.
The board shall have the membership, organization, powers, duties and functions
as prescribed by 11 O.S. §§ 49-103 et seq.
   (B)   Fund Operated in Accordance with Law. The city’s firefighters’ pension
and retirement system and fund shall be operated in accordance with state law
relating to the fund and system.
   (C)   Contributions to Fund.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid
member of the fire department the amounts which are required by applicable
state law. If the members of the fire department, by a majority vote of its
paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts
authorized by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The treasurer of the city shall deposit monthly
to the Oklahoma firefighters’ pension and retirement board the amounts deducted
pursuant to this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a
fire department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The
deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to
ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
firefighters’ pension and retirement board the amounts of monies which are
required by applicable state law for each paid member of the fire department.
      (3)   For each volunteer member of the fire department, the City
Treasurer shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma firefighters’ pension and
retirement board the amounts of monies which are required by applicable state
law. These amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as
set by the Oklahoma firefighters’ pension and retirement board.
      (4)   All assets of the city firefighters’ pension and retirement fund
shall be transferred to the Oklahoma firefighters’ pension and retirement
board. Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities
and such other specific assets as permitted by the state board.
§ 1-8-2 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   There is hereby adopted by reference, as though set forth herein in its
entirety, an employee retirement system for the city. A copy of said retirement
system, and amending ordinances, shall be on file and available for inspection
in the office of the City Clerk.
CHAPTER 9: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
1-9-1   Organization of Court
   
1-9-2   Definitions
   
1-9-3   Jurisdiction of Court
   
1-9-4   Judge of the Court
   
1-9-5   Marshal of the Court
   
1-9-6   Clerk of the Court
   
1-9-7   Prosecuting Attorney
   
1-9-8   Rules of Court
   
1-9-9   Written Complaints to Prosecute Violations
   
1-9-10   Traffic Violations; Procedure
   
1-9-11   Summons for Arrest
   
1-9-12   Form of Arrest Warrant
   
1-9-13   Procedures for Bail or Bond
   
1-9-14   Traffic Bail Bond Procedures
   
1-9-15   Arraignment and Pleadings by Defendant
   
1-9-16   Trials and Judgments
   
1-9-17   Trial by Jury or Waiver of Jury Trial
   
1-9-18   Jurors and Jury Trial Procedures
   
1-9-19   Sentencing
   
1-9-20   Imprisonment, Work by Prisoners
   
1-9-21   Fines and Costs
   
1-9-22   Deduction from Fines for Training Fund
§ 1-9-1 ORGANIZATION OF COURT.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal
criminal court of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on
February 4, 1969, and filed in accordance with law as authorized by 11 O.S. §§
27-101 and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this
chapter and the provisions of any ordinance of the city, the provisions of this
chapter shall control. The court shall be operative on and after February 12,
1969.
§ 1-9-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
city.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the city, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The municipal court of the city.
   JUDGE. The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this city is situated.
§ 1-9-3 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city is charged.
§ 1-9-4 JUDGE OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Qualifications. There shall be one judge of the court. A judge must be
duly licensed to practice law in the state. He may engage in the practice of
law in other courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his
duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected
with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might
become the subject of proceedings therein. The judge may serve as judge of
other municipal courts, if such service may be accomplished consistently with
his duties as judge of this court, with the consent of the City Council.
   (B)   Term. The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years expiring
on July 1 in each odd numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner removed for
proper cause, shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Alternate Judge. There shall be appointed for each judge of the court
an alternate judge possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
judge. He shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the court;
      (2)   Unable to act as judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
   (D)   Acting Judge. If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the Mayor, with
consent of the City Council, shall appoint some person who shall preside as
acting judge over the court in the disposition of pending matters until such
time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available, and such judge need not
be an attorney.
   (E)   Appointment of Judge and Alternate Judge.
      (1)   Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the consent of the City Council. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the City Council prior to the day upon which the appointment is to
take effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   The City Council may decide upon the proposed appointment by a
majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the City Council unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws
the proposed appointment.
   (F)   Salary and Payments to Judges.
      (1)   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the City Council by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the city.
      (2)   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as
set by the City Council for each day devoted to the performance of his duties,
except that the total payments so calculated during any month shall not exceed
the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. An alternate or acting judge
who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in this chapter
as the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits.
   (G)   Removal of Judges.
      (1)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the City Council
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor; or
         (b)   Twenty-five (25) or more qualified electors of the city.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
      (2)   The City Council shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled to:
         (a)   Representation by counsel;
         (b)   Present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against
him; and
         (c)   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      (3)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
administrative procedures act governing individual proceedings (75 O.S. §§ 309
to 317, as amended) shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of
removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all
members of the City Council, in favor of such removal.
   (H)   Vacancy in Office.
      (1)   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         (a)   Dies;
         (b)   Resigns;
         (c)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         (d)   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
      (2)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made.
   (I)   Disqualification. In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue
shall be allowed; but the judge before whom the case is pending may certify his
disqualification or he may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is
disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge
appointed as provided in this chapter.
§ 1-9-5 MARSHAL OF THE COURT.
   All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official
title, to the chief of police of the city, who shall be the principal officer
of the court and marshal of the court.
§ 1-9-6 CLERK OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Duties. The City Clerk or a deputy designated by him shall be the
clerk of the municipal court. The clerk shall:
      (1)   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court,
preparation of writs, processes, or other papers;
      (2)   Administer oaths required in judicial or other proceedings before
the court;
      (3)   Be responsible for the entry of all pleadings, processes, and
proceedings in the dockets of the court;
      (4)   Perform such other clerical duties in relation to the proceedings
of the court as the judge shall direct;
      (5)   Receive and give receipt for and disburse or deliver to the City
Treasurer all fines, forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of monies properly
payable to the municipal court; and
      (6)   Pay to the treasurer of the city immediately all monies so received
by him, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed by him for special purposes. All monies paid to the treasurer shall
be placed in the general fund of the city, or in such fund as the City Council
may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the municipal government
in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is
placed.
   (B)   Bond.
      (1)   The clerk of the municipal court shall give bond in the sum as
established by the city. The bond shall be submitted to the City Council for
its approval. The bond shall be in substantially the following form:
 
   I,                                    , clerk of the Municipal Court of Chandler, State of Oklahoma, and                     
and                     , his sureties, do jointly and severally agree to pay on demand each and every person who may be
entitled thereto, all such sums of monies as the said clerk may become liable to pay, on account of any monies which may come
into his hands, by virtue of his office.
 
      Dated at                     , this       day of                     , 20     .
 
                                 
    (Signed)
 
      (2)   When approved, such form shall be filed with the clerk of the city
and retained in the city archives.
§ 1-9-7 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   The attorney for the city, or his duly designated assistant, shall be the
prosecuting officer of the court. He shall also prosecute all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other court of the state, and to represent the city in
all proceedings arising out of matters in this court.
§ 1-9-8 RULES OF COURT.
   (A)   Prescribed by Judge. The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with
the laws of the state and with the ordinances of the city, for the proper
conduct of the business of the court.
   (B)   Enforcement. Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the
judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison
for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or committed against
processes issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
district courts of this state.
§ 1-9-9 WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE VIOLATIONS.
   Except as provided otherwise in this chapter, all prosecutions commenced in
the municipal court shall be initiated by filing of a written complaint which
shall be subscribed and verified by the person making complaint and setting
forth concisely the offense charged. All prosecutions for the violation of
municipal ordinances shall be styled, “The City of Chandler vs.           
(naming the person or persons charged)”.
§ 1-9-10 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Citation Issuance to City Resident.
      (1)   If a police officer observes facts which he believes constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of the city, committed by a resident
thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he may take his name, address,
operator’s license number, and registered license number of the motor vehicle
involved and any other pertinent and necessary information and may issue him in
writing in form prescribed by the Mayor or his duly designated delegate, a
traffic citation embracing the above information, and also stating the traffic
violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him to answer to the charge
against him at a time, not later than thirty (30) days thereafter, specified in
the citation.
      (2)   The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then release the
person from custody.
      (3)   If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as
prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Release; Custody; Bail. If the alleged traffic violation is committed
by a nonresident or resident of the city, the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in subsection (A) of this section pending his appearance on a day certain
in court, as specified in the citation;
      (2)   Take the person into custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his release in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon giving
his written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in subsection (A)
of this section, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   Parking Citations. If the alleged offense be a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator be not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in subsection (A) or (B) of this section, with such variation as the
circumstances require. The operator of this vehicle shall be under the same
obligation to respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him
personally under subsection (A) or (B) of this section.
§ 1-9-11 SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any
ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or
unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested
and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in
the court on a certain day, five (5) days (Sundays and holidays excepted) after
the summons is served upon him, and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
   (B)   Serving Summons; Failure to Appear. The summons shall be served by
delivering a copy to the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to
answer the summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for
his arrest, as provided by this chapter.
§ 1-9-12 FORM OF ARREST WARRANT.
   (A)   Form of Warrant. Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the
city, upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the
attorney of the city or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of
arrest, in substantially the following form:
 
   The City of Chandler to the Chief of Police of Chandler, Oklahoma.
 
   Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the offense of (naming the
offense in particular but general terms) has been committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are
commanded therefor forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring (insert him, her, them) before me,
at the (naming the place).
 
      Witness my hand this            day of                , 20       .
 
 
                                                       
         Judge (or Clerk) of the Municipal
         Court of Chandler, Oklahoma
 
   (B)   Execution of Warrant. It is the duty of the police chief, personally,
or through a duly constituted member of the police force of the city, or
through any other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as
promptly as possible.
§ 1-9-13 PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND.
   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the judge
is not available, the rules shall authorize the chief of police, or his
designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond as established by
the city.
§ 1-9-14 TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Release upon Personal Recognizance. In addition to other provisions of
law for posting bail, any person, whether a resident of this state or a
nonresident, who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a
misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law or municipal traffic ordinance,
shall be released by the arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      (1)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a participant to the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      (2)   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      (3)   The violation does not constitute:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   Negligent homicide;
         (c)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         (d)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         (e)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         (f)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         (g)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections (A)(3)(a) through (A)(3)(f) of this section;
         (h)   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         (i)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   (B)   Duties of Arresting Officer upon Release.
      (1)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in subsection (A) of this section, then the
arresting officer shall:
         (a)   Designate the traffic charge;
         (b)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license
on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
         (c)   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         (d)   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         (e)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear
as provided for in the citation.
      (2)   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in this state, or in
the nonresident’s home state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   (C)   Arraignment Continued or Rescheduled. The court, or the court clerk as
directed by the court, may continue or reschedule the date and time of
arraignment upon request of the arrested person or his attorney. If the
arraignment is continued or rescheduled, the arrested person shall remain on
personal recognizance and written promise to appear until such arraignment, in
the same manner and with the same consequences as if the continued or
rescheduled arraignment were entered on the citation by the arresting officer
and signed by the defendant. An arraignment may be continued or rescheduled
more than one time; provided however, the court shall require an arraignment to
be had within a reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of the defendant to
appear for arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as provided for in
subsection (D) of this section. Procedures for arraignment, continuances and
scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting
bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for
suspension of driver’s license, shall be required by the city or as provided in
state law, 22 O.S. §§ 1115.1 through 1115.5.
   (D)   Plea Entered by Defendant. A defendant released upon personal
recognizance may elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the
violation charged at any time before he is required to appear for arraignment
by indicating such plea on the copy of the citation furnished to him or on a
legible copy thereof, together with the date of the plea and his signature. The
defendant shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine by
cashier’s, traveler’s, certified or guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial
money order, or other form of payment approved by the court in the amount
prescribed as bail for the offense. However, the defendant shall not use
currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere as provided for in this subsection, such plea shall be accepted
by the court and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by
ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the court or, in the
absence of such ordinance, in the amount prescribed by the court.
   (E)   Failure to Appear; Issuance of Warrant.
      (1)   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection (D) of this section,
the defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a
warrant for the arrest of the defendant, and the municipal or district court
clerk, within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation
was issued by the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of
public safety that:
         (a)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         (b)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         (c)   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any
other arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         (d)   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      (2)   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle
in this state, or notify the defendant’s home state and request suspension of
the defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with the provisions of the
nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the state department of public safety. The court clerk
shall not process the notification and request provided for in this subsection
if, with respect to such charges:
         (a)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         (b)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         (c)   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         (d)   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   (F)   Driver’s License Suspension Request Record; Notice of Case Closure.
The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver’s license
suspension submitted to the state department of public safety pursuant to the
provision of this section. When the court or court clerk receives appropriate
bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other
arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the court clerk
shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at such other
address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or court
clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the
citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator compact,
and shall in all other cases, notify the state department of public safety of
the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the state department of public safety.
Provided however, the court or court clerk’s failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided for in this subsection shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any employee thereof,
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request.
§ 1-9-15 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   (A)   Arraignment. Upon making his appearance before the court, the
defendant shall be arraigned. The judge, or the attorney of the city, shall
read the complaint to the defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including
the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of
conviction, and ask him whether he pleads guilty or not guilty.
   (B)   Guilty Plea. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition.
   (C)   Not Guilty Plea. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for
jury trial, the court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at
a later date.
§ 1-9-16 TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Postponement. Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   Presence at Trial. The defendant must be present in person at the
trial.
   (C)   Trials of Misdemeanors. In all trials, as to matters not covered in
this chapter, or by the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly
promulgated by the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
   (D)   Judgment of Court. If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted
after the trial, the court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty
within the limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly.
   (E)   Entry in Docket. At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   (F)   Acquittal. If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
   (G)   Payment of Fine; Inability to Pay.
      (1)   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment until the same
shall be satisfied, at the rate as established by the city.
      (2)   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court
minutes and to be certified to the district court in the county where the situs
of the municipal government is located, where it shall be entered upon the
district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a
district court judgment.
      (3)   Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for the enforcement
of the judgment as are available to any other judgment creditor.
§ 1-9-17 TRIAL BY JURY OR WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
   (A)   Trial by Jury or to Court. In all prosecutions for violations of
ordinances punishable by fine of more than state statutes allow, or by
imprisonment, or by both fine and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury, unless
waived by the defendant. If trial by jury is waived, trial shall be to the
court.
   (B)   Defendant Determination. At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked
whether he demands or waives trial by jury. His election shall be recorded in
the minutes of the arraignment and entered on the docket of the court
respecting proceedings in the case.
   (C)   Changing Decision by Defendant. An election waiving jury trial, made
at arraignment, may be changed by the defendant at any time prior to the day
for which trial by the court is set; an election demanding jury trial may be
changed at any time prior to the commencement of proceedings to impanel the
jury for the trial, but if that change occurs after the case has been set for
jury trial, it may not thereafter be rechanged so as again to demand trial by
jury.
§ 1-9-18 JURORS AND JURY TRIAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Request for Juror List. Whenever a calendar has been made up for the
trial of cases by jury, the judge shall request, in writing, the presiding
judge of the district court for this judicial district to cause the names of a
stated number of jurors, deemed sufficient to dispose of the cases on the
calendar, to be drawn from the jury wheel in accordance with the governing
statutes of the state, and to be certified by the clerk of the district court
to the judge of the municipal court. The request shall be made in time for the
list to be certified and the jurors to be summoned legally before the trial on
the calendar begins. If it is anticipated that the completion of the calendar
will require more than two (2) weeks, the request for jurors shall specify the
number required for each two (2) week period, as provided by law for the
drawing of jurors for the district court. Additional drawing of other names
also may be requested by the judge, when necessary, in accordance with the law
for such additional drawings in the district court. If, in the future,
provisions of the law respecting the drawing of jury lists for the district
court are changed, the judge shall take such steps, in requesting jury lists
for the court, as are necessary to comply with the state law.
   (B)   Summons of Jurors; Form. Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of
the court shall cause a summons substantially in the following form to be
issued and served upon each person on the list:
 
STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
)   SS:
COUNTY OF LINCOLN   )
 
   TO                               , GREETING: you hereby are summoned to appear in the Municipal Court for the City of
Chandler, Oklahoma, to be held at                     on the         day of              , 20      , at the hour of
          o’clock     .M., to serve as a juror in said court, and to continue in such service until discharged by the
court.
 
      Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
 
      Issued under the authority of said court, this       day of            , 20     .
 
                                                       
          Clerk of the Municipal Court of
          the City of Chandler, Oklahoma
 
   (Seal)
 
   (C)   Service of Summons. Service shall be made, as the judge may prescribe
by rule or direct by order, either in person upon the juror by the marshal of
the court or by any member of the police force of the city, or by the clerk of
the court, through certified mail, directed to the juror at his address as
given in the jury list with request for a personally signed return receipt. In
any proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of the
due mailing of the summons by the clerk or a member of his staff and the
presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the
addressee shall be prima facie evidence that the summons was duly received by
the addressee and therefore, that he was properly served therewith.
   (D)   Number and Qualifications. A jury in the court shall consist of six
(6) jurors, good and lawful men or women, citizens of the county of Lincoln,
possessing the qualifications of jurors in district court.
   (E)   Hearing Arguments. After the jurors are sworn, they must sit together
and hear the proofs and oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered
in public and in the presence of the defendant.
   (F)   Voting of Jurors; Verdict. A verdict of the jury may be rendered by
the vote of five (5) jurors.
   (G)   Decisions and Instructions of Judge. In all actions tried before a
jury, the judge shall determine all questions of law, including questions as to
the introduction of evidence, arising during the trial. He also shall instruct
the jury as to the law.
   (H)   Verdict Delivered to Court. The verdict of the jury, in all cases,
must be general. When the jury has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the
verdict publicly to the court. The judge must enter the verdict in the docket
or cause it to be so entered.
   (I)   Discharge of Jurors Following Verdict. The jury must not be discharged
after the cause is submitted to it until a verdict is rendered, unless the
judge, for good cause, discharges it sooner, in which event the court may
proceed again to trial, and so on, until a verdict is rendered.
   (J)   Compensation. Jurors shall receive for their services a sum per day as
set by the City Council by motion or resolution and for mileage necessarily
traveled by the most direct route in going to and from the court from their
respective places of residence. The claims for such compensation shall show the
location of the juror’s residence and the route and miles traveled, and must be
verified as other claims against the city are verified. Jurors shall be paid
out of the general funds of the city.
§ 1-9-19 SENTENCING.
   (A)   Statutory Authority. The judge may suspend, modify, defer or reduce a
sentence in accordance with 11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
   (B)   Discretionary Action of Judge. A judge who is licensed to practice law
in this state in imposing a judgment and sentence, at his discretion, is
empowered to modify, reduce, or suspend or defer the imposition of such
sentence or any part thereof and to authorize probation for a period not to
exceed six (6) months from the date of sentence, under such terms or conditions
as the judge may specify. Procedures relating to suspension of the judgment or
costs, or both, shall be as provided in 11 O.S. § 27-123. Upon completion of
the probation term, the defendant shall be discharged without a court judgment
of guilt, and the verdict, judgment of guilty or plea of guilty shall be
expunged from the record and the charge dismissed with prejudice to any further
action. Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of probation have been
violated, the Municipal Judge may enter a judgment of guilty. The Judge may
continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence for a period of time not to
exceed six (6) months from the date of sentence. At the expiration of such
period of time, the Judge may allow the City Attorney to amend the charge to a
lesser offense. If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee as
established by the City may be imposed as costs in the case.
§ 1-9-20 IMPRISONMENT, WORK BY PRISONERS.
   (A)   Imprisonment. If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is
entered, a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the
Chief of Police, the Sheriff of the County or other appropriate police officer.
Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   (B)   Prisoners Working; Credit for Work. All prisoners confined to jail on
conviction or on plea of guilty may be compelled, if their health permits, to
work on the public streets, avenues, alleys, parks, buildings, or other public
premises or property. For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited
for serving two (2) days of imprisonment under his sentence.
   (C)   Supervision of Work. The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of
the City Manager, shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of
the department in charge of the place where the work is to be performed,
himself, or by some person designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a
guard is necessary, the Chief of Police shall make provision therefor.
§ 1-9-21 FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   Court Costs. Except as provided in 11 O.S. § 14-111, the City of
Chandler, Oklahoma does hereby determine that court costs which may be charged
and collected by the City Court Clerk in connection with Municipal offenses
shall forthwith be the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per case or offense plus
the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses.
   (B)   Claim for Unpaid Fines and Costs. The City of Chandler Municipal Court
seeking to collect unpaid fines and costs of at least fifty dollars ($50.00)
from an individual who has filed a State Income Tax return may file a claim
with the Oklahoma Tax Commission requesting that the amount owed to the
Municipal Court be deducted from any State Income Tax refund due to that
individual. The claim shall be filed electronically in a form prescribed by the
Oklahoma Tax Commission and shall contain information necessary to identify the
person owing the debt, including the full name and social security number of
the debtor, all in accordance with 68 O.S. § 205.2.
   (C)   Notice. The Municipal Court shall send notice to the Municipal Court
defendant by first class mail at the last known address of the Municipal Court
defendant as shown by the records of the Tax Commission when seeking to collect
unpaid Municipal fines and costs. The notice shall state:
      (1)   That a claim has been filed;
      (2)   The basis for the claim;
      (3)   That the Municipal Court has applied to the Tax Commission for any
portion of the tax refund due to the Municipal Court defendant which would
satisfy the unpaid Municipal Court fines and costs, in full or in part;
      (4)   That the Municipal Court defendant has the right to contest the
claim by sending a written request to the Municipal Court for a hearing to
protest the claim and, if the Municipal Court defendant fails to apply for a
hearing within sixty (60) days after the date of the mailing of the notice, the
Municipal Court defendant shall be deemed to have waived his or her opportunity
to contest the claim;
      (5)   That a collection expense of five percent (5%) of the gross
proceeds owed to the Municipal Court shall be charged to the Municipal Court
defendant and withheld from the refund upon final determination of the debt or
final judgment at the hearing or upon failure of the debtor to request a
hearing; and
      (6)   If the taxpayer settles the unpaid Municipal fines and costs before
the time to contest the claim expires, the Municipal Court shall notify the Tax
Commission in writing or by electronic media that the claim has been released.
   (D)   Notice for Joint Return. In the case of a joint return, the notice
shall state:
      (1)   The name of any taxpayer named in the return against whom no unpaid
fines and costs, or final judgment is claimed.
      (2)   The fact that unpaid Municipal fines and costs are not claimed
against that taxpayer.
      (3)   The fact that the taxpayer is entitled to receive a refund if it is
due regardless of the Municipal fines and costs asserted against the Municipal
Court defendant.
      (4)   That in order to obtain the refund due, the taxpayer must apply, in
writing, for a hearing with the Municipal Court named in the notice within
sixty (60) days after the date of the mailing of the notice.
      (5)   If the taxpayer against whom no Municipal fines and costs are
claimed fails to apply in writing for a hearing within sixty (60) days after
the mailing of the notice, the taxpayer shall have waived his or her right to a
refund.
   (E)   Request for Hearing. If the Municipal Court asserting the claim
receives a written request for a hearing from the debtor or taxpayer against
whom no Municipal fines and costs are claimed, the Municipal Court shall grant
a hearing according to the provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act, 75
O.S. §§ 250 et seq. It shall be determined at the hearing whether the claimed
sum is correct or whether an adjustment to the claim shall be made. Pending
final determination at the hearing of the validity of the unpaid fines and
costs asserted by the Municipal Court, no action shall be taken in furtherance
of the unpaid fines and costs. Appeals from actions taken at the hearing shall
be in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act.
   (F)   Determination. Upon final determination at a hearing, as provided for
in subsection (E) of this section, of the amount of the unpaid fines and costs
or upon failure of the debtor or taxpayer against whom no unpaid fines and
costs are claimed to request such a hearing, the Municipal Court shall submit
in the manner prescribed by the Tax Commission notification of the action taken
on the claim and a request that the amount owed, including the collection
expense, be deducted from the tax refund due to the debtor and transferred to
the Municipal Court. However, if the tax refund due is inadequate to pay the
unpaid fines and costs, the balance due the Municipal Court shall be a
continuing debt or final judgment until paid in full.
   (G)   Use of Information. The information obtained by the Municipal Court
from the Tax Commission pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be
used only to aid in collection of the unpaid fines and costs owed to the
Municipal Court. Disclosure of the information for any other purpose shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any court employee or other person convicted of
violating this provision shall be subject to a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) pursuant to State law and, if still employed by the courts,
shall be dismissed from employment.
   (H)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to claims
filed under the provisions of 68 O.S. §§ 2906 or 5011.
   (I)   Court Costs for Conviction or Deferral of Sentence. If judgment of
conviction or deferral of sentence is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax
all court costs in such amount as authorized by State law in effect on the date
of the offense.
   (J)   Costs of Incarceration. The Municipal Judge shall require a person who
is actually received into custody at a jail facility or who is confined in a
City or County Jail or holding facility, for any Chandler Municipal Court
offense, to pay the jail facility or holding facility the costs of
incarceration, both before and after conviction, upon conviction or receiving a
deferred sentence. Unless already collected by the incarcerating facility, the
costs of incarceration shall be collected by the Clerk of the Court as provided
for collection of costs and fines, which shall be subject to review under
procedures set forth in rule 8.1 et seq., of the Rules of Oklahoma Court of
Criminal Appeals. Costs of incarceration shall include booking, receiving and
processing out, housing, food, clothing, medical care, dental care, psychiatric
services and any other expenses allowed by State law. The costs of
incarceration shall be an amount equal to the actual cost of the services and
shall be determined by the Chief of Police for City Jails and holding
facilities, by the County Sheriff for County Jails or by contract amount, if
applicable.
   (K)   Debt of Defendant. Costs of incarceration shall be a debt of the
defendant owed to the Municipality, County, or other public entity responsible
for the operation of the jail or holding facility and may be collected as
provided by law for collection of any other civil debt or criminal penalty.
   (L)   Reduction in Costs of Incarceration. The court shall not waive the
costs of incarceration in their entirety. However, if the court determines that
a reduction in the fine, costs, and costs of incarceration is warranted, the
court shall equally apply the same percentage reduction to the fine, costs, and
costs of incarceration owed by the defendant.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-13-2016; Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 1-9-22 DEDUCTION FROM FINES FOR TRAINING FUND.
   Beginning October 1, 1983, for every fine as established by the City
collected by the Municipal Court, an amount as established by the City shall be
set aside for the State Law Enforcement Officers Training Fund. The City
Treasurer, beginning January 1, 1984, and every quarter thereafter, shall
deposit the monies set aside from the previous quarter pursuant to the first
sentence of this section into the State Law Enforcement Officers Training Fund.
CHAPTER 10: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
1-10-1   Schedule of Fees and Charges
§ 1-10-1 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Pursuant to this code and for purpose of providing a clear and concise
listing of the licenses, permits and services performed in accordance with the
regulations and controls upon which the licenses and permits are conditioned
and to provide uniformity in the supervision and administration of the issuance
of licenses and permits, and the collection of the amounts prescribed, a
schedule of fees and charges, or fee schedule, is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Council is authorized to amend said fees and charges by
resolution. The City Clerk shall maintain a schedule of all current fees and
charges available for public inspection at city hall as well as upon the city’s
official internet website.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 5-4-2004; Res. 2024-05, passed 6-11-2024)
CHAPTER 11: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
1-11-1   Definitions
   
1-11-2   Findings
   
1-11-3   Process of Establishing a Covered Account
   
1-11-4   Access to Covered Account Information
   
1-11-5   Credit Card Payments
   
1-11-6   Sources and Types of Red Flags
   
1-11-7   Prevention and Mitigation of Identity Theft
   
1-11-8   Updating the Program
   
1-11-9   Program Administration
   
1-11-10   Outside Service Providers
   
1-11-11   Treatment of Address Discrepancies
   
1-11-12   Furnishing Consumer’s Address to Consumer Reporting Agency
   
1-11-13   Methods of Confirming Consumer Addresses
§ 1-11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Chandler, Oklahoma.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, or utility account, or municipal court imposed fine or costs.
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefor.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and driver’s
license information and for a natural person includes their social security
number, mother’s birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-2 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (C)   The city limits access to personal identifying information to those
employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered
accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information provided
to such employees is entered directly into the city’s computer system.
   (D)   The city determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-3 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   As a precondition to opening a covered account in the city, each
applicant shall provide the city with personal identifying information of the
customer as may be reasonably requested by the employee opening said account.
Such information shall be entered directly into the city’s computer system. All
applications are kept in a locking file cabinet and only authorized city
personnel will have access to these files.
   (B)   Each account shall be assigned an account number. A password will be
added to the account upon customer’s request.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-4 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized city personnel.
   (B)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the City Manager and the password changed
immediately.
   (C)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be
immediately forwarded to the City Manager and the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-5 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the internet
are processed through a third party service provider shall certify that it has
an adequate identity theft prevention program in place that is applicable to
such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or the city’s website
shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in the
computer database.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four (4) digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account
used for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-6 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Red Flags. All employees responsible for or involved in the process of
opening a covered account, restoring a covered account, or accepting payment
for a covered account shall check for red flags. Red flags may include:
      (1)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies
or service providers. Examples of alerts include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
         (b)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a
consumer report;
         (c)   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency;
         (d)   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that
is inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant
or customer, such as:
            1.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
            2.   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
            3.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; or
            4.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse
of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (B)   Suspicious Documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution
or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious Personal Identification. Suspicious personal
identification, such as suspicious address change. Examples of suspicious
identifying information include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
         (a)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
or
         (b)   The social security number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the social security administration’s death master file.
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of
birth.
      (3)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address, is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
      (4)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
maildrop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity.
      (5)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers.
      (6)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers.
      (7)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete.
      (8)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor.
      (9)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   (D)   Suspicious Activity. Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to
a covered account. Examples of suspicious activity include:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
city receives a request for the addition of authorized users on the account.
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example: The customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments; a material
change in purchasing or spending patterns.
      (4)   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is used
(taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage
and other relevant factors).
      (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account.
      (6)   The city is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
      (7)   The city is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account.
      (8)   The city is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   (E)   Notice from Customers. Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims
or other reliable sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing
relating to covered accounts.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-7 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall immediately report
such red flags to the Finance Director. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee deems that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is
available to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to
the Finance Director, who may in his or her discretion determine that no
further action is necessary. If the Finance Director in his or her discretion
determines that further action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one
or more of the following responses, as determined to be appropriate by the
Finance Director:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes, or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account;
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer, and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify a debt collector within seventy-two (72) hours of the
discovery of likely or probable identity theft relating to a customer account
that has been sold to such debt collector in the event that a customer’s
account has been sold to a debt collector prior to the discovery of the
likelihood or probability of identity theft relating to such account;
      (5)   Notify law enforcement, in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the personal identifying information; or
      (6)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in
opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible
identity theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee
shall use his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or
combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her
discretion, such employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity
theft is likely or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red
flags to the Finance Director. If, in his or her discretion, such employee
deems that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available
to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the
Finance Director, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further
action is necessary. If the Finance Director in his or her discretion
determines that further action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one
or more of the following responses, as determined to be appropriate by the
Finance Director:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-8 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Upon the recommendation of the City Manager, the City Council shall
annually review and, as deemed necessary by the council, update the
administrative rules for the “identity theft prevention program” along with any
relevant red flags in order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the
safety and soundness of the city and its covered accounts from identity theft.
In so doing, the City Council shall consider the following factors and exercise
its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The city’s experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the city offers or maintains;
and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-9 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Finance Director is responsible for oversight of the program and
for program implementation. The City Manager is responsible for reviewing
reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and
with recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion
of the City Manager, to address changing identity theft risks and to identify
new or discontinued types of covered accounts. Any recommended material changes
to the program shall be submitted to the City Council for consideration by the
council.
   (B)   The Finance Director will report to the City Manager at least
annually, on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report will address
material matters related to the program and evaluate issues such as:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of city in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (C)   The Finance Director is responsible for providing training to all
employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity
theft prevention program. The Finance Director shall exercise his or her
discretion in determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-10 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   (A)   In the event that the city engages a service provider to perform an
activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the Finance Director
shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to
ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider’s activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-11 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.1, the purpose of this section is to
establish a process by which the city will be able to form a reasonable belief
that a consumer report relates to the consumer about whom it has requested a
consumer credit report when the city has received a notice of address
discrepancy.
   (B)   In the event that the city receives a notice of address discrepancy,
the city employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the purpose
of providing the municipal service or account sought by the consumer shall
perform one or more of the following activities, as determined to be
appropriate by such employee:
      (1)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
         (a)   Information the city obtains and uses to verify a consumer’s
identity in accordance with the requirements of the customer information
program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
         (b)   Information the city maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records or tax records; or
         (c)   Information the city obtains from third party sources that are
deemed reliable by the city employee; or
      (2)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-12 FURNISHING CONSUMER’S ADDRESS TO CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCY.
   (A)   In the event that the city reasonably confirms that an address
provided by a consumer to the city is accurate, the city is required to provide
such address to the consumer reporting agency from which the city received a
notice of address discrepancy with respect to such consumer. This information
is required to be provided to the consumer reporting agency when:
      (1)   The city is able to form a reasonable belief that the consumer
report relates to the consumer about whom the city requested the report;
      (2)   The city establishes a continuing relation with the consumer; and
      (3)   The city regularly and in the ordinary course of business provides
information to the consumer.
   (B)   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency as
part of the information regularly provided by the city to such agency for the
reporting period in which the city establishes a relationship with the
customer.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 1-11-13 METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES.
   The city employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or
her discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   (B)   Reviewing the city’s records to verify the consumer’s address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-14-2009)
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      Chapter
         
1.    PLANNING COMMISSION
         
2.    HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
         
3.    EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
         
4.    PARK COMMISSION
         
5.    GOLF COURSE ADVISORY BOARD
CHAPTER 1: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   Repealed by Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007   
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see
title 11, chapter 3  of this code
CHAPTER 2: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Section
   
2-2-1   Commission Established; Membership
   
2-2-2   Terms of Office
   
2-2-3   Compensation
   
2-2-4   Meetings
   
2-2-5   Officers
   
2-2-6   Powers and Duties
§ 2-2-1 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Commission Established. There is hereby established and entitled the
historic preservation commission for the city.
   (B)   Membership. The historic preservation commission of the city shall
consist of five (5) persons, to be appointed by the mayor with the approval of
the City Council. The commission shall consist of one member of the planning
commission, one member of the City Council, two (2) members of the Lincoln
County historical society or other comparable organization, and one member at
large.
   (C)   Residency. Commissioners shall be residents of the city.
§ 2-2-2 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Staggered Terms. The terms of office of the members of the historic
preservation commission shall be as follows:
      (1)   One commissioner shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   Two (2) commissioners shall be appointed for a term of two (2)
years; and
      (3)   Two (2) commissioners shall be appointed for a term of three (3)
years.
   (B)   Term Established. At the expiration of the terms of office of the
commissioners appointed for one year terms and two (2) year terms, thereafter,
each commissioner appointed to succeed them shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years and until his successor in office has been appointed and
qualifies. The terms of the commissioners shall begin on May 1.
   (C)   Filling Vacancy. Any vacancy which may occur through death,
resignation, or otherwise shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner
hereinabove provided.
§ 2-2-3 COMPENSATION.
   No compensation for the services of the commission shall be allowed to any
member thereof.
§ 2-2-4 MEETINGS.
   The commission shall determine the time of its regular meetings, and special
meetings of the commission may be called by the chairman or by a majority of
the commissioners.
§ 2-2-5 OFFICERS.
   The commissioners shall, when so appointed, elect one of their number
chairman, another vice chairman, and another secretary. Thereafter, officers
shall be chosen at the first meeting in the month of May of each year or as
soon thereafter as practicable.
§ 2-2-6 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The commissioners shall act in an advisory capacity to the mayor, City
Council, and city manager in connection with the care, management, and
preservation of an historic district or districts which shall be hereafter
created. The commission shall advise with and suggest to the mayor, council,
and city manager the area or areas to be designated for historic preservation
and methods of improving and regulating such district including, but not
limited to, suggesting and altering from time to time necessary rules and
regulations for such established district or districts; provided however, that
no such rules and regulations shall be of any effect unless first approved by
the council.
CHAPTER 3: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
Section
   
2-3-1   Purpose
   
2-3-2   Department of Emergency Management
   
2-3-3   Director of Emergency Management
   
2-3-4   Emergency Powers
   
2-3-5   Enforcement of Laws and Ordinances
   
2-3-6   Compensation; City Responsibility for Injuries
§ 2-3-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to create an emergency management agency for
the city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the city. The duty of such
emergency management agency shall be the protection of the lives and health of
the citizens of the city and of property rights, both private and public, and
to perform all functions necessary and incident thereto.
§ 2-3-2 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of
the city a department of emergency management, which shall consist of:
   (A)   A director of emergency management who shall be appointed by the city
manager, and when necessary for the good of the service, suspended, demoted, or
removed by the city manager.
   (B)   An emergency management advisory committee. This committee shall
consist of the mayor as chairman and five (5) members appointed by the mayor
and serving at his pleasure. The committee shall select from its members a vice
chairman and secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the
mayor or the director of emergency management.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 12-8-2015)
§ 2-3-3 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Department Head; Responsibilities. The director of emergency
management shall be the executive head of the department of emergency
management, and shall be responsible for carrying out the emergency management
program of the city.
   (B)   Compensation. For fiscal year 2015-2016, the director shall receive
such compensation as was budgeted for the position by the City Council.
Commencing with fiscal year 2016-2017 and each fiscal year thereafter, such
compensation shall be as approved and budgeted by the City Council.
   (C)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   It is the duty of the director of emergency management, as soon as
practicable after his appointment, to perfect an agency to carry out the
purposes set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The director shall have all necessary power and authority to form
committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the chairman or chief
officer of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an agency.
      (3)   The director shall have such further duty and responsibility to
cooperate with all emergency management agencies of other governmental units,
including the state and federal government.
      (4)   The director shall be an officer of the city and shall have the
power necessary to enforce the duties provided in the chapter.
   (D)   Formulate Plans; Gather Information. The director of emergency
management is further authorized to formulate written plans and gather
information and keep written records thereof to govern the functions of the
emergency management agency. He may carry out plans with the state officials of
emergency management in cooperating with the federal government and to make
available to the city and county program the benefits of Pub. Law No. 85-606,
subject to the approval of the City Council, the county, and emergency
management committee.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 12-8-2015)
§ 2-3-4 EMERGENCY POWERS.
   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the director of emergency management, after due authorization
from the City Council, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules
and regulations relating to emergency management and, if necessary, take
control of transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing,
medicine, and public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian
population. He shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other
governmental agencies or emergency management agencies. If required by the
mayor, he shall have control over any and all funds allocated from any source
for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the city.
§ 2-3-5 ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The director of emergency management and other members of the emergency
management agency created by him shall have the power and authority to enforce
the laws of the state and ordinances of the city during the period of
emergency, and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for
violations of such laws or ordinances.
§ 2-3-6 COMPENSATION; CITY RESPONSIBILITY FOR INJURIES.
   All members of the emergency management agency created hereunder shall serve
without compensation. The city shall be responsible as required by law for any
personal injury received by any member of such agency while acting in the line
of duty.
CHAPTER 4: PARK COMMISSION
Section
   
2-4-1   Commission Established; Membership; Meetings
   
2-4-2   Terms of Office
   
2-4-3   Officers
   
2-4-4   Powers and Duties
   
2-4-5   Park Property Defined
   
2-4-6   Conflict of Interest
   
2-4-7   Acceptance of Gifts
§ 2-4-1 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Commission Established; Appointment. There is hereby established a
park commission for the city. This organization shall be called “board of park
commissioners” of the city. Said board shall consist of five (5) persons, to be
appointed by the mayor, with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Residency. A park board member need not be a resident of the city.
   (C)   Compensation. No compensation for services of the commission shall be
allowed to any member thereof.
   (D)   Meetings.
      (1)   The board shall determine the time of its regular meetings.
      (2)   Special meetings of the park commission may be called by the
chairman or a majority of the commissioners.
§ 2-4-2 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Staggered Terms. The terms of office of the members of the board of
park commissioners of the city shall be as follows: one commissioner shall be
appointed for a term of one year; two (2) commissioners for a term of two (2)
years; and two (2) commissioners for a term of three (3) years.
   (B)   Term Established. At the expiration of the terms of office of the
first commissioners appointed hereunder, each park commissioner shall be
appointed for a term of three (3) years and until his successor in office has
been appointed and qualifies. The terms of the commissioners shall begin on
May 1.
   (C)   Filling Vacancies. Any vacancy which may occur through death,
resignation, or otherwise, may be filled for the unexpired term in like manner.
(Ord. 1996-03, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 2-4-3 OFFICERS.
   The board shall, when so appointed, elect one of its number chairman of the
board and another vice chairman, and the board shall elect a member secretary,
and thereafter such officers shall be chosen on the first Monday of May in each
year, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
§ 2-4-4 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The board of park commissioners shall act in an advisory
capacity to the mayor and City Council and the city manager in connection with
the care, management and control of all parks and grounds used for park
purposes, all boulevards and parkways, now or hereafter owned by or under the
control of the city. The board shall advise with, and suggest to, the mayor and
council and the city manager, methods of improving and adorning parks,
boulevards and parkways.
   (B)   Rules and Regulations. The board shall have power to make and alter,
from time to time, necessary rules and regulations for the maintenance of
order, safety, and decency in the parks, both within and without the limits of
the city; provided, that no such rules or regulations shall be of any effect
unless they shall have been first approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Police Jurisdiction. For the purpose of enforcing such rules and
regulations, all such parks and property within or without the limits of the
city are hereby placed under the police jurisdiction of the city. Any member of
the police department may arrest, without warrant, in any such parks or places,
whether within or without the limits of the city, any person who has broken any
park rule or committed any violation of such rules or the ordinances of the
city in the park, and the municipal court of the city shall have jurisdiction
of all such violations committed within the limits of the parks.
§ 2-4-5 PARK PROPERTY DEFINED.
   The term PARK PROPERTY includes all parks, street parkings, and all
buildings, structures, improvements, seats, benches, foundations, boats,
floats, walks, drives, roads, trees, plants, herbages, flowers, and other
things thereon, and the enclosures of the same, and all trees on streets or
thoroughfares, resting places, water stations, playgrounds, or the like, and
all boulevards, parkways, roads, or drives between parks.
§ 2-4-6 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No member of the board of park commissioners shall be concerned in any
contract with the city or any of its departments, either as contractor,
subcontractor, bondsman, or other party directly or indirectly interested.
§ 2-4-7 ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS.
   (A)   Conveyance to City. Real or personal property may be granted,
bequeathed, devised, or conveyed to the city for the purpose of the improvement
or ornamentation of such parks or approaches, or for the establishment or
maintenance therein of museums, zoological or other gardens, collections of
natural history, observatories, monuments, statues, fountains, or other works
of art, upon such trusts and conditions as may be prescribed by the grantors or
devisors thereof, and accepted by the City Council.
   (B)   City Management and Control. All property so devised, granted,
bequeathed, or conveyed, and the rents, issues, profits, and income thereof
shall be subject to the exclusive management, direction, and control of the
city.
CHAPTER 5: GOLF COURSE ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
2-5-1   Board Established; Membership
   
2-5-2   Terms of Office
   
2-5-3   Compensation
   
2-5-4   Meetings
   
2-5-5   Officers
   
2-5-6   Powers and Duties
§ 2-5-1 BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Board Established. There is hereby established and entitled the
Chandler golf course advisory board.
   (B)   Membership. The Chandler golf course advisory board shall consist of
five (5) persons to be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the City
Council.
   (C)   Qualifications. Members shall meet at least two (2) of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Resident of the city of Chandler;
      (2)   Own or be employed by a business in the city limits of Chandler;
      (3)   Annual member of the Chandler golf course.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 2-5-2 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Appointment. The Chandler golf course advisory board members will be
appointed for twenty-four (24) months. At the conclusion of the twenty-four
(24) month period, the City Council will determine if the board should be
reappointed for additional service.
   (B)   Cause for Removal. Should any member miss three (3) consecutive
regular meetings of the Chandler golf course advisory board, the remaining
members shall immediately report such fact to the City Council, at which time
the City Council may remove said member at its discretion. Violation of the
city of Chandler’s conflict of interest policy shall be cause for immediate
removal from office.
   (C)   Filling Vacancy. Any vacancy which may occur through death,
resignation, removal, or otherwise shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the manner hereinabove provided.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 2-5-3 COMPENSATION.
   No compensation for the services of the Chandler golf course advisory board
shall be allowed to any member.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 2-5-4 MEETINGS.
   The Chandler golf course advisory board shall meet on call at the direction
of the chairman of the board, the city manager, or the council. Such meetings
will be in compliance with the state open meeting laws.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 2-5-5 OFFICERS.
   The board members shall, when so appointed, elect one of their number
chairman, another vice chairman, and another secretary. Then, at the first
board meeting in the month of July of each year or as soon thereafter as
practicable.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 2-5-6 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Chandler golf course advisory board shall act only in an advisory
capacity to the mayor, City Council, city manager and the superintendent of the
Chandler city golf course. Said board will have no responsibilities for the
supervision, promotion, demotion, or dismissal of any golf course employees or
golf course vendors. The board will develop recommendations and planning on the
expansion of the course, funding for the expansion, new services at the course,
and the addition of any new facilities and equipment consistent with the
community needs.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-1-2005)
TITLE 3: FINANCE AND TAXATION
      Chapter
         
1.    FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
         
2.    PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; COMPETITIVE BIDDING
         
3.    TAXES
         
4.    SPECIAL FEES
CHAPTER 1: FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
3-1-1   Depositories Designated; Funds Deposited
   
3-1-2   Contractual Services Defined for Purchasing
   
3-1-3   Purchases of Goods, Services and Capital
   
3-1-4   Council Approval for Certain Contracts or Purchases
   
3-1-5   Competitive Bidding
   
3-1-6   Purchases Excluded from Bidding Process
   
3-1-7   Sale of Surplus Materials; Competitive Bidding
   
3-1-8   City Sales and Purchases Restricted
   
3-1-9   Budget and Appropriations
   
3-1-10   Funds; Warrants; Bonds
   
3-1-11   Examination and Audit of Books and Records
   
3-1-12   Insurance for Property, Vehicles
   
3-1-13   Debt Service
   
3-1-14   Interfund Transfers
   
3-1-15   Petty Cash
   
3-1-16   Incurring Indebtedness
   
3-1-17   Financial Reporting
   
3-1-18   Applicability to Public Trusts
§ 3-1-1 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS DEPOSITED.
   (A)   Deposit of Funds. Funds of the city shall be deposited as required by
law.
   (B)   Depositories. All banks and all savings and loan associations within
this state which are incorporated under federal or state law are hereby
designated as depositories for the funds of the city.
   (C)   Daily Deposits; Transfer of Funds.
      (1)   The city treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by
him in such banks or savings and loan associations.
      (2)   Funds may be transferred from one depository to another as the City
Council may direct by motion or resolution.
§ 3-1-2 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Services performed for the city by persons not in the
employment of the city, and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing
of commodities in connection with the services under express or implied
contract. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES shall include: travel; freight; express; parcel
post; postage; telephone; telegraph; utilities; rents; printing out; binding;
repairs, alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and
bridges, and other physical facilities of the city; and other services
performed for the city by persons not in the employment of the city.
§ 3-1-3 PURCHASES OF GOODS, SERVICES AND CAPITAL.
   (A)   The City Manager shall designate certain individuals as purchasing
officers empowered to purchase or contract against budget appropriations. Only
these designated individuals will be empowered to obligate the city.
   (B)   For all purchases of goods, services or capital (all purchases or
disbursements other than payroll and debt service) for which the obligation and
final invoice for the payment of the obligation does not occur within the same
month, purchase orders or contracts shall be prepared and approved, in writing,
by a designated purchasing officer prior to the time the purchase commitment is
made. The approved purchase order or contract shall be forwarded to an officer
or employee charged with keeping the appropriation and expenditure records
(encumbering clerk) who shall determine that unencumbered appropriations exist
for that purpose. Upon such determination, the encumbering clerk shall attest
to that fact in writing. If appropriation is not available for the proposed
purchase or commitment, the purchase or commitment shall not proceed until
budget amendments are authorized to provide sufficient appropriation.
      Upon approval of the purchasing officer and encumbering clerk, an
encumbrance shall be recorded in the appropriation and expenditure records in
the amount or estimated amount of the commitment.
      These encumbering requirements shall not apply to the following type of
purchases or commitments:
      (1)   Payroll and payroll related expenses.
      (2)   Utility and telephone services by entities governed by state
corporation commission.
      (3)   Insurance contracts.
      (4)   Purchases where the obligation and final invoice are processed in
the same month.
   (C)   For all purchases or contracts for goods, services, or capital over
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), City Council approval shall be obtained prior
to the time the commitment is made, and such approval shall be recorded in the
minutes of the council.
   (D)   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of
contract provisions, an invoice or claim form shall be obtained adequately
documenting request for payment. The officer or employee receiving satisfactory
delivery of merchandise or contract service shall acknowledge such fact by
signing the invoice, claim form, delivery ticket, receiving advice or purchase
order form.
      The invoice or claim form, along with the written acknowledgment of
receipt, shall be forwarded to the officer or employee responsible for
processing accounts payable who shall review the invoice for accuracy and
propriety, including comparison to the authorized purchase order or contract,
if applicable.
      Upon completion of the accounts payable officer review, the invoices or
purchase orders along with the related supporting documentation shall be
submitted to the City Manager for consideration and approval of payment, along
with an accompanying invoice or claims listing, which shall be approved in
writing by the City Manager. An invoice approval report or claims listing will
be presented to the City Council at the next regular council meeting.
   (E)   Upon approval of the invoices, claims or purchase orders for payment
by the City Manager, checks or other payment documents as authorized by state
law shall be prepared and submitted to the city treasurer, along with a copy of
the approved invoice or claims listing.
      The treasurer shall compare the checks or other payment documents to the
invoice or claims listing and verify their accuracy. Upon verification, the
treasurer and the city clerk shall sign the checks or other documents and
prepare them for distribution. In addition, the treasurer shall prepare or
cause to be prepared a check or disbursement register.
   (F)   The city treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the purchases and cash disbursements incurred
and paid within the same month.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 17-102
§ 3-1-4 COUNCIL APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN CONTRACTS OR PURCHASES.
   See subsection
3-1-3(C) of this chapter for purchases over twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00).
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 3-1-5 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   The city shall adhere to the provisions of 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.,
when determining when competitive bidding is required and the manner in which
competitive bids will be obtained.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section,
public trusts created pursuant to 60 O.S. § 176, of which the city is
beneficiary, shall also follow the competitive bidding provisions of 60 O.S. §
176(G).
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
Charter reference:
   Purchases and sales, see §
4.3
§ 3-1-6 PURCHASES EXCLUDED FROM BIDDING PROCESS.
   The following may be purchased without giving an opportunity for competitive
bidding:
   (A)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services whose cost does
not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in a single transaction;
   (B)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
   (C)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased from
another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from private
dealers, including government surplus;
   (D)   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the council declares the purchase an emergency;
   (E)   Contractual services, including, but not limited to, natural gas,
electricity, telephone service, purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the state corporation commission or other governmental
authority;
   (F)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when purchased
at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing agency or
any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
   (G)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural and medical services unless competitive bidding is required by
applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 1993-01, passed 2-2-1993; Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-5-2002)
Charter reference:
   Purchases and sales, see §
4.3
§ 3-1-7 SALE OF SURPLUS MATERIALS; COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment may be sold until
the City Council shall have declared them obsolete or surplus. The council may
authorize the sale of any obsolete or surplus supplies, materials, or equipment
either by sealed bids or by public auction. When the sealed bid procedure is
used, the City Manager, except as otherwise provided below, shall advertise
them for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or give notice
in such other manner as he deems necessary adequately to reach prospective
buyers to give them opportunity to make necessary bids. All bids shall be
sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated time and place, except
when the sale is by auction. The City Manager may repeatedly reject all bids
and advertise or give notice again. He shall sell such supplies, materials or
equipment to the highest responsible bidder. In case of a tie, if necessary, he
shall cast lots to determine to whom to sell, or he may divide the sale among
two (2) or more tying, always selling to the highest responsible bidder or
bidders.
§ 3-1-8 CITY SALES AND PURCHASES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Selling by Council. No member of the City Council may sell, or furnish
for a consideration, any materials or supplies for use of the city; and any
member of the council voting for, or consenting to, or being a party to, such
contract or purchase is personally liable as provided by Oklahoma law.
   (B)   Contracts with Council. The City Council shall not make any contract
with any of its members, or in which any of its members shall be directly or
indirectly interested, such contracts being prohibited by law.
   (C)   City Officers; Conflict of Interest; Contracts. No officer of the city
may become directly or indirectly interested individually in any sale, lease,
or contract which he is authorized to make, such being prohibited by law.
§ 3-1-9 BUDGET AND APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   Budget Preparation. The City Council shall meet on a date that is
agreeable to the majority of the council members to develop a budget, including
the estimated needs and probable income, for the next fiscal year, in the
manner required by law.
   (B)   Appropriations. Appropriations for the city shall be made as provided
by law.
   (C)   Transfers. Unencumbered appropriations balances of items of less
immediately urgent need, or any part thereof, may be transferred to other items
of appropriation to meet more immediately urgent needs in the manner provided
by law.
§ 3-1-10 FUNDS; WARRANTS; BONDS.
   (A)   Funding and Accounting Generally. The revenues and other resources of
the city shall be divided into funds as provided by law and accounted for as
provided thereby.
   (B)   Sinking Fund.
      (1)   It is the duty of the officers of the city to handle, deposit,
invest, and use the money in the sinking fund of the city in the manner
provided by law.
      (2)   The city treasurer shall deposit daily all uninvested sinking fund
money in his hands in banks as provided by law.
   (C)   Claims and Invoices. Claims and invoices against the city shall be
made and processed as provided by law.
   (D)   Warrants; Disbursement of Funds. Warrants shall be issued and
processed, and funds of the city disbursed, only for legal purposes and in
accordance with law.
   (E)   Bonds, Issuance and Sale. Bonds of the city shall be issued, sold,
paid, and handled in all respects as provided by law.
§ 3-1-11 EXAMINATION AND AUDIT OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Books Open to Council Inspection. The books of the city treasurer
shall be subject to examination by the City Council at all times, as provided
by law. Likewise, the records of the city clerk and of all other officers and
employees of the city shall be subject to inspection by the City Council at all
times.
   (B)   Annual Audit by Public Accountant. The City Council shall designate a
qualified public accountant to audit the financial records and transactions of
the city treasurer, the city clerk, and all other personnel of the city who
keep financial records and make financial transactions, as of the end of every
fiscal year, at least; the accountant shall make such audit and shall report to
the City Council.
   (C)   Petition for State Audit. Upon petition of a number of voters of the
city equal at least to twenty-five percent (25%) of the number of people voting
at the last general city election for the city office receiving the highest
number of votes, the financial books and records of the city will be audited by
the state auditor and inspector as provided by law.
§ 3-1-12 INSURANCE FOR PROPERTY, VEHICLES.
   (A)   Property. The City Council may insure property of the city as
authorized by law. Any money received as a result of destruction, damages, or
loss of such insured property shall be accounted for and used as provided by
law.
   (B)   Negligent Operation of Vehicle. The City Council may purchase
insurance to pay damage to persons sustaining injuries or damages to property
as a result of negligent operation of vehicles, motorized equipment of the
city, or any acts of the city as authorized by law.
§ 3-1-13 DEBT SERVICE.
   (A)   All long term indebtedness, in the form of bonds, notes or lease
purchase obligations, shall only be incurred in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Once lawfully incurred, payments of principal and interest on the
bonds or notes and payments on the lease purchase obligations shall be paid in
accordance with the terms as specified in the bond indenture, note agreement or
lease purchase contract by the city treasurer without further approval of the
governing body.
   (C)   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for the
payment of purchases of goods, services or capital as described in subsection
3-1-3(E) of this chapter.
   (D)   The city treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the debt service payments and maintain current
records of the remaining amount of indebtedness.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 3-1-14 INTERFUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   All transfers of resources between funds shall only be made in
accordance with the appropriations provided by the City Council for such
transfers. Such appropriations shall be contained in the original or amended
budget of the city.
   (B)   Once lawfully appropriated, interfund transfer payments may be made by
the city treasurer without further City Council approval. Such transfers,
however, may not exceed the amount lawfully appropriated.
   (C)   The manner of payment of these interfund transfers shall be consistent
with the manner used for the payment of purchases of goods, services and
capital as described in subsection
3-1-3(E) of this chapter.
   (D)   The city treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded these
interfund transfers in the appropriate journals and ledgers.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 3-1-15 PETTY CASH.
   (A)   As provided for in 11 O.S. § 17-102(D), the city may have petty cash
accounts for use in making certain small payments for costs incurred in
operating the municipality.
   (B)   Each petty cash account established shall require City Council
approval, including the amount of the petty cash imprest balance. However, in
no case, should the imprest balance exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (C)   The petty cash accounts shall be reimbursed by utilizing properly
itemized invoices or petty cash voucher slips and by then processing the
reimbursement in the manner used for payment of purchases of goods, services
and capital.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 3-1-16 INCURRING INDEBTEDNESS.
   As provided for in article 10, section 26 of the Oklahoma constitution, the
city is prohibited from becoming indebted in any manner for any purpose in an
amount exceeding the amount appropriated by the City Council for such purpose,
without voter approval.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 3-1-17 FINANCIAL REPORTING.
   The finance director, or their designee, shall prepare a monthly budget
status report comparing the actual results to date with the budget
appropriations. The report shall be placed on the agenda for City Council
acknowledgment at the next regular City Council meeting following month end.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 3-1-18 APPLICABILITY TO PUBLIC TRUSTS.
   (A)   For all public trusts created pursuant to 60 O.S. §§ 176 through 180,
for which the city is beneficiary and for which the trust’s governing body
(trustees) are comprised entirely of members of the City Council, the
requirements of this chapter, excluding section 3-1-16, “Incurring
Indebtedness”, of this chapter, shall apply.
   (B)   For the purposes of the public trusts, as used above, the terms
GOVERNING BODY shall mean board of trustees of the trust, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER shall mean trust manager as appointed by the trustees, CITY TREASURER
shall mean trust treasurer as appointed by the trustees or required by the
trust indenture.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
CHAPTER 2: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS;
COMPETITIVE BIDDING
Section
   
3-2-1   Scope
   
3-2-2   Definitions
   
3-2-3   Bidding; Additional Requirements
   
3-2-4   Nonresident Bidders; Resident Preference
   
3-2-5   Purchasing Agents Authorized
   
3-2-6   Proposals, Notice
   
3-2-7   Bid Notice Contents
   
3-2-8   Bid Documents on File; Available to Prospective Bidders
   
3-2-9   Prequalification of Bidders
   
3-2-10   Bid Accompanied by Check or Bond; Default; Return
   
3-2-11   Disclosure Statement Required
   
3-2-12   Time for Receiving Bids
   
3-2-13   Bid Opening
   
3-2-14   Award of Contract
   
3-2-15   Rejection of Bids
   
3-2-16   Bids Public Record
   
3-2-17   Execution of Contract; Documents Required
   
3-2-18   Interest of Officers and Relatives Forbidden
   
3-2-19   Collusion; Penalties; Affidavit
   
3-2-20   Prohibited Activities
   
3-2-21   No Timely Bid
   
3-2-22   Assignment of Contract by Bidder Prohibited
   
3-2-23   Change Order; Contents
   
3-2-24   Insurance
   
3-2-25   Certification of Invoices, Effect
   
3-2-26   Inspection of Projects
   
3-2-27   Force Account Authorized
   
3-2-28   Emergency Contracts
   
3-2-29   Favoring Particular Insurance or Surety Companies
   
3-2-30   Eight Hour Day; Laborers, Contracts
   
3-2-31   Public Buildings; Specifications for Handicapped
   
3-2-32   Enforcement
§ 3-2-1 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to the contracting by the city for any public
improvement, or the construction or repair of any public building, where the
value of the contract exceeds twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). No
contract involving sums in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
shall be split into partial contracts involving sums below twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of this
chapter. All such partial contracts shall be void.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-5-2002)
§ 3-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIDDING DOCUMENTS. The bid notice, plans and specifications, bidding form,
bidding instructions, special provisions and all other written instruments
prepared by or on behalf of the city for use by prospective bidders on a public
construction contract.
   PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT or CONTRACT. Any contract, exceeding twenty-
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in amount, awarded by the city for the
purpose of making any public improvements or constructing any public building
or making repairs to the same.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any beneficial or valuable change or addition,
betterment, enhancement or amelioration of or upon any real property, or
interest therein, belonging to the city intended to enhance its value, beauty
or utility or to adapt it to new or further purposes. The term does not include
the direct purchase of materials, equipment or supplies by the city.
   RETAINAGE. The difference between the amount earned by the contractor on a
public construction contract, with the work being accepted by the city, and the
amount paid on the contract by the city.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-5-2002)
§ 3-2-3 BIDDING; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bidding Requirement. See section
3-1-5  of this title regarding competitive bidding.
   (B)   Contract, Bonds, Insurance.
      (1)   No work shall be commenced until a written contract is executed and
all required bonds and insurance have been provided by the contractor to the
city.
      (2)   All insurance or bonds shall be secured from an insurance or
indemnity carrier licensed to do business in the state.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 3-2-4 NONRESIDENT BIDDERS; RESIDENT PREFERENCE.
   (A)   Nonresidents. The city shall not contract with a bidder who is not a
resident of this state unless:
      (1)   No bids are submitted by a resident bidder;
      (2)   The bid submitted by the nonresident bidder is more than five
percent (5%) less than the bid submitted by any resident bidder;
      (3)   The bid submitted by a nonresident bidder, who resides in a state
which has a reciprocal agreement with this state regarding nonresident bidding
requirements, is less than the bid submitted by any resident bidder by that
percentage which is at least equal to that required by the reciprocal state of
a bidder from this state. States not having such reciprocal agreements shall
comply with provisions of subsection (A)(2) of this section.
   (B)   Residents.
      (1)   A RESIDENT BIDDER is any person, firm, corporation or other legal
entity, if at the time the contract is advertised for bids and at the time bids
are submitted, it meets the following requirements:
         (a)   Maintains its principal place of business in the state of
Oklahoma.
         (b)   If the bidder is a corporation, then it must be domiciled or
incorporated in Oklahoma and a majority of its outstanding shares must be owned
by one or more individual citizens and residents of the state of Oklahoma who
pay income, real property and personal property taxes in this state.
         (c)   If the bidder is a partnership, general or limited, or other
legal entity, then the partners or associates owning a majority beneficial
interest therein must be citizens and residents of the state of Oklahoma who
pay income, real property and personal property taxes in this state. If one or
more partners or associates are corporations, then a majority of its
outstanding shares must be owned by individual citizens and residents of the
state of Oklahoma who pay income, real property and personal property taxes in
this state. If the entity is a trust, then a majority of the beneficial
interest thereof must be owned by individual citizens and residents of the
state of Oklahoma.
         (d)   If the bidder is an individual, then the individual must be a
citizen and resident of the state of Oklahoma who pays income, real property
and personal property taxes in the state of Oklahoma.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any
contract in which federal funds are involved.
      (3)   A resident bidder shall submit with his bid an affidavit stating
that he meets the qualifications of this subsection (B).
§ 3-2-5 PURCHASING AGENTS AUTHORIZED.
   The City Council may duly appoint as its agent any individual or individual
of a legal entity, with whom the city has duly entered into a public contract
pursuant to law, to make purchases necessary for carrying out the public
contract.
§ 3-2-6 PROPOSALS, NOTICE.
   All proposals to award public construction contracts shall be made equally
and uniformly known by the city to all prospective bidders and the public in
the following manner:
   (A)   Mail. Notice thereof shall be mailed, by first class mail, to all
known prospective bidders who have made known, in writing, to the public agency
their interest in bidding within the twelve (12) months immediately preceding
the date of opening bids, at least twenty (20) days prior to the time set for
opening bids.
   (B)   Newspaper. Notice thereof shall be given by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation and published in the county where the work, or the major
part of it, is to be done, such notice by publication to be published in two
(2) consecutive weekly issues of the newspaper, with the first publication
thereof to be at least twenty (20) days prior to the date set for opening bids.
   (C)   Trade or Construction Publications. Notice thereof shall be sent to
trade or construction publications for their use and information whenever the
estimated cost of the contract exceeds fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00);
provided however, that this section shall not be construed as requiring the
publication of the notice in such trade or construction publication.
§ 3-2-7 BID NOTICE CONTENTS.
   All bid notices shall set forth the following information:
   (A)   The character of the proposed public construction contract in
sufficient detail that all bidders shall know exactly what their obligation
will be, either in the bid notice itself or by reference to bidding documents
on file in the main office of the city;
   (B)   The name of the officer, agent or employee of the city, and the office
location and address of such person, from whom a complete set of bidding
documents regarding such proposed contract may be obtained, together with the
amount of the cost deposit required therefor, if any;
   (C)   The date, time and place of opening of the sealed bids;
   (D)   The name and office location and address of the office of the city to
whom the sealed bids should be submitted;
   (E)   The period of time not to exceed sixty (60) days after the opening of
the bids, within which the contract will be executed; and
   (F)   Any additional information regarding such proposed contract deemed by
the city to be of beneficial interest to prospective bidders or the public.
§ 3-2-8 BID DOCUMENTS ON FILE; AVAILABLE TO PROSPECTIVE BIDDERS.
   At least one complete set of bidding documents regarding a proposed public
construction contract shall be on file in the main office of the city at least
twenty (20) days prior to the date set for opening bids. The officer, agent or
employee of the city designated in the bid notice shall have a sufficient
number of complete sets of the bidding documents and shall provide a complete
set of same to any prospective bidder, upon request; provided however, that the
city may require a reasonable deposit for each such set; provided, that such
deposit shall not exceed the actual cost of duplicating or printing. The city
may retain all or part of the deposit if so stated in the notice for bids.
§ 3-2-9 PREQUALIFICATION OF BIDDERS.
   In order to determine the financial responsibility of bidders, the city may
require prospective bidders to prequalify as responsible bidders prior to
submitting bids on a public construction contract. Notice of any such
prequalification requirement shall be made equally and uniformly known to the
contractors and the public in the same manner as proposals to award public
construction contracts, as set forth in section
3-2-6 of this code.
§ 3-2-10 BID ACCOMPANIED BY CHECK OR BOND; DEFAULT; RETURN.
   (A)   Check or Bond Required. Each bidder on a public construction contract
shall accompany his bid by a certified or cashier’s check or bid bond equal to
five percent (5%) of the bid, which shall be deposited with the city as a
guaranty, and there shall be forfeited to the city cost of republication of
notice to bidders, all actual expenses incurred by reason of bidder’s default
and the difference between the low bid of the defaulting bidder and the amount
of the bid of the bidder to whom the contract is subsequently awarded, but not
to exceed the amount of the check or bid bond, in the event the apparently
successful bidder fails to execute the contract or fails to provide the
required bond and insurance to the city.
   (B)   Return to Bidder.
      (1)   The certified or cashier’s check or bid bond shall be returned to
the successful bidder on execution and delivery of the contract and required
bond and insurance.
      (2)   Checks of unsuccessful bidders shall be returned to them in
accordance with the terms of the proposal.
§ 3-2-11 DISCLOSURE STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   Each bidder shall accompany his bid with a written statement under oath
disclosing the following information:
   (A)   The nature of any partnership, joint venture or other business
relationships then in effect or which existed within one year prior to the date
of such statement with the architect, engineer or other party to the project;
   (B)   Any such business relationship then in effect or which existed within
one year prior to the date of such statement between any officer or director of
the bidding company and any officer or director of the architectural or
engineering firm or other party to the project;
   (C)   The names of all persons having any such business relationships and
the positions they hold with their respective companies or firms. If none of
the business relationships hereinabove mentioned exist, then a statement to
that effect; and
   (D)   A sworn statement that he has not been a party to any agreement or
collusion among bidders or prospective bidders in restraint of freedom of
competition by agreement to bid at a fixed price or to refrain from bidding or
otherwise.
§ 3-2-12 TIME FOR RECEIVING BIDS.
   Any bid received by the city or an officer or employee thereof, more than
ninety-six (96) hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, before the
time set for the opening of bids, or any bid so received after the time set for
opening of bids, shall not be considered by the city and shall be returned
unopened to the bidder submitting same.
§ 3-2-13 BID OPENING.
   All bids shall be sealed and opened only at the time and place mentioned in
the bid section, and read aloud in the presence of the City Council. Such bid
opening shall be open to the public and to all bidders.
§ 3-2-14 AWARD OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   Lowest Responsible Bidder. The awarding of a contract to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders shall be made within thirty (30) days after the
opening of bids unless the City Council votes and records the same, for good
cause shown, to provide for an extension period. The extension period shall not
exceed fifteen (15) days where only state or local funds are involved, or more
than ninety (90) days where federal funds are involved.
   (B)   Other than Lowest Bidder. If an award is made to other than the lowest
bidder, the city shall accompany its action with a publicized statement setting
forth the reason for its action. Such statement shall be placed on file, open
to public inspection, and be a matter of public record.
§ 3-2-15 REJECTION OF BIDS.
   By majority action of the City Council, the city shall have the right to
reject any or all bids and solicit bidders again as herein provided, if, in the
opinion of the City Council, the best interests of the people of the city and
the state would be served by so doing.
§ 3-2-16 BIDS PUBLIC RECORD.
   All bids, both successful and unsuccessful, and all contracts and required
bonds shall be placed on file and maintained in the main office of the city for
a period of five (5) years from the date of opening of bids or for a period of
three (3) years from the date of completion of the contract, whichever is
longer, shall be open to public inspection and shall be matters of public
record.
§ 3-2-17 EXECUTION OF CONTRACT; DOCUMENTS REQUIRED.
   Within the period of time specified in the bid notices, not to exceed sixty
(60) days, a contract embodying the terms set forth in the bidding documents
shall be executed by the city and the successful bidder. The following shall be
provided by the contractor to the city.
   (A)   A bond complying with the provisions of 61 O.S. § 1;
   (B)   A good and sufficient bond in a sum equal to the contract price, with
adequate surety, to insure the proper and prompt completion of the work in
accordance with the provisions of the contract and bidding documents;
   (C)   A good and sufficient bond in a sum equal to the contract price to
protect the city against defective workmanship and materials for a period of
one year after acceptance of the project; and
   (D)   Public liability and workers’ compensation insurance during
construction in reasonable amounts. The city may require the contractor to name
the city and its architects and/or engineers as an additional assured under the
public liability insurance, which requirement, if made, shall be specifically
set forth in the bidding documents.
§ 3-2-18 INTEREST OF OFFICERS AND RELATIVES FORBIDDEN.
   The City Manager and members of the City Council authorizing or awarding or
supervising the execution of a public construction contract, and their
relatives within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity, are forbidden
to be interested directly or indirectly through stock ownership, partnership
interest or otherwise in any such contract. Contracts entered into in violation
of this provision shall be void.
§ 3-2-19 COLLUSION; PENALTIES; AFFIDAVIT.
   Any agreement or collusion among bidders or prospective bidders in restraint
of freedom of competition by agreement to bid at a fixed price or to refrain
from bidding, or otherwise, shall render the bids of such bidders void, and
persons willfully violating this provision shall be guilty of a felony. Each
bidder shall accompany his bid with a sworn statement that he has not been a
party to any such agreement. The form of the statement shall be substantially
as provided in 74 O.S. § 85.22, but modified in wording to refer to the city.
§ 3-2-20 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Advance Disclosure of Bid Terms. Any disclosure in advance of the
terms of a bid submitted in response to a bid notice issued by the city is
unlawful and will render the proceeding void and require solicitation and award
anew.
   (B)   Soliciting Information in Preparing Bid. It is also unlawful for any
person to solicit, use, possess or receive such information for use in
preparing a bid unless the bid is withdrawn or the information is substantially
altered, in which case, notice thereof must be made uniformly known.
   (C)   Impede Disclosure or Distribution. After the date when such
information is to be made generally available, it shall be unlawful for any
person to withhold or impede its disclosure or distribution.
§ 3-2-21 NO TIMELY BID.
   If no timely bid is received after bid notices have been published on any
proposed public construction contract which does not exceed fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00), the City Council may direct its employees or agents to
negotiate the contract with a prospective contractor. The amount of a contract
which may be awarded by City Council pursuant to this section shall not exceed
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), and the work to be performed shall be as
specified in the initial bidding documents. The contract shall be executed
within six (6) months after the date initially set for opening of bids. The
contract and contract procedure shall conform to all other applicable
provisions of the public competitive bidding act of 1974.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 61 OS §§ 101 et seq.
§ 3-2-22 ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT BY BIDDER PROHIBITED.
   No public construction contract shall be assignable by the successful bidder
without written consent of the City Council, evidenced by resolution. In no
event shall such a contract be assigned to a bidder who was declared by the
city not to be a responsible bidder in the consideration of bids received for
the particular contract.
§ 3-2-23 CHANGE ORDER; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Contents. Change orders or addenda to public construction contracts of
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or less shall not exceed a fifteen percent
(15%) cumulative increase in the original contract amount. Change orders or
addenda to public construction contracts of over one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) shall not exceed the greater of one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000.00) or a ten percent (10%) cumulative increase in the total
of the original contract amount. Any change orders or cumulative change orders
which exceed these limits shall require a readvertising for bids on the
incomplete portions of the contract. Change orders in any amount shall be
formally approved by the City Council and the reasons therefor recorded in the
permanent records. All change orders shall contain a unit price and total for
each of the following items:
      (1)   All materials with cost per item;
      (2)   Itemization of all labor with number of hours per operation and
cost per hour;
      (3)   Itemization of all equipment with the type of equipment, number of
each type, cost per hour for each type, and number of hours of actual operation
for each type;
      (4)   Itemization of insurance cost, bond cost, social security, taxes,
workers’ compensation, employee fringe benefits and overhead cost; and
      (5)   Profit for the contractor.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   If a construction contract contains unit pricing, and the change
order pertains to the unit price, the change order will not be subject to this
section.
      (2)   When the unit price change does not exceed ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), the unit price change order computation may be based on an
acceptable unit price basis in lieu of cost itemization as required in
subsections (A)(1) through (A)(5) of this section.
   (C)   Alternates or Add Items. Alternates or add items bid with the original
bid and contained in the awarded contract as options of the city shall not be
construed as change orders under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 3-2-24 INSURANCE.
   The city may, at its option, require the contractor to carry insurance
against damage from fire and the elements during the process of construction to
the extent of protecting the city’s equity in the project until accepted.
§ 3-2-25 CERTIFICATION OF INVOICES, EFFECT.
   All statements or invoices submitted to the city for work performed shall
contain a sworn certification by the supervising architect or engineer, or
other supervisory official if no supervisory architect or engineer is employed
for the project, that work for which payment is claimed has been performed and
that such work conforms to the plans and specifications for the project. No
such statement or invoice shall be paid by the city without such certification.
The execution of a sworn certificate, as herein provided, shall not constitute
a defense or in any other manner affect any cause or causes of action which the
city might otherwise have against the contractor for nonperformance of a public
construction contract.
§ 3-2-26 INSPECTION OF PROJECTS.
   The city shall make provision for the inspection of projects prior to
acceptance by the city and shall approve claims for payment only after proper
inspection has been made as provided in the plans and specifications for the
project.
§ 3-2-27 FORCE ACCOUNT AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the city from doing
public construction work on a force account basis.
§ 3-2-28 EMERGENCY CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, EMERGENCY shall be
limited to conditions resulting from a sudden unexpected happening or
unforeseen occurrence or condition and situation wherein the public health or
safety is endangered.
   (B)   Notice and Bidding Not Required. The provisions of this chapter with
reference to notice and bids shall not apply to an emergency if:
      (1)   The City Council declares by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all of the
members of the council that an emergency exists; or
      (2)   The City Manager declares an emergency exists and the contract does
not exceed seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) in amount; provided
however, that if the City Manager declares such an emergency, he shall notify
the City Council of such action within ten (10) days. Such notification shall
contain a statement of the reasons for his action and shall be recorded in the
official minutes of the council.
   (C)   Reasons Entered into Minutes. The reasons for declaring an emergency
and not complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be entered into the
official minutes of the City Council.
(Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-5-2002; Ord. 2023-02, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 3-2-29 FAVORING PARTICULAR INSURANCE OR SURETY COMPANIES.
   The city, nor any officer, agent or employee thereof, nor any person acting
or purporting to act on behalf of the city, nor an officer, agent or employee
thereof, shall, with respect to any public construction contract, require or
attempt to require a contractor or any subcontractor to make application to or
to procure or obtain from any particular insurance or surety company, agent or
broker, any of the bonds or insurance required by this chapter.
§ 3-2-30 EIGHT HOUR DAY; LABORERS, CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Laborers, Mechanics, Janitors.
      (1)   Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work for all laborers,
workers, mechanics, janitors of public institutions or other persons now
employed or who may hereafter be employed by and in behalf of the city, except
in cases where it may be necessary to work for more than eight (8) hours per
calendar day for the protection of property or life. However, in all such
cases, laborers, workers, mechanics or other persons so employed and working to
exceed eight (8) hours per calendar day shall be paid on a basis of eight (8)
hours constituting a day’s work.
      (2)   Not less than the current rate of per diem wages in the locality
where the work is performed shall be paid laborers, workers, mechanics,
janitors of public institutions or other persons so employed by or on behalf of
the city. Laborers, workers, mechanics or other persons employed by contractors
or subcontractors in the execution of any contract or contracts with the city
shall be deemed to be employed by or on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Contracts.
      (1)   All contracts hereafter made by or on behalf of the city with any
corporation, person or persons, for the performance of any work, by or on
behalf of the city, shall be deemed and considered as made upon the basis of
eight (8) hours constituting a day’s work.
      (2)   It is unlawful for such corporation, person or persons to require,
aid, abet, assist, connive at, or permit any laborer, worker, mechanic, janitor
at public institutions, or other person to work more than eight (8) hours per
calendar day in doing such work, except in cases and upon the conditions
described in subsection (A) of this section.
      (3)   The provisions of this chapter in regard to hours worked per
calendar day shall not apply to the construction, reconstruction, maintenance,
or the production of local materials for: highways, roads, streets and all the
structures and drainage in connection therewith; sewer systems; waterworks
systems; dams and levies; canals, drainage ditches; airport grading, drainage,
surfacing; seeding and planting.
      (4)   Provided, that the provisions of this chapter will not prevent
employees from drawing time and a half for those hours worked over forty (40)
during any calendar week.
§ 3-2-31 PUBLIC BUILDINGS, SPECIFICATIONS FOR HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   Facilities Required; Standards.
      (1)   All plans and specifications for the erection of a public building
by the city or for any building erected through the use of public funds, shall
provide facilities for the handicapped.
      (2)   Such facilities shall conform with the standards prescribed by the
Americans with disabilities act (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
      (3)   Elevators shall be constructed and installed in the buildings to
the extent deemed feasible and financially reasonable to the city.
      (4)   After the effective date of this subsection (A), any building or
facility which would have been subject to the provisions of this section, but
for the fact that it was constructed prior to the effective date thereof, shall
be subject to the requirements of this section if: a) additions are made to
such building or facility in any twelve (12) month period which increase the
total floor area of such building or facility by twenty-five percent (25%) or
more; or b) if alterations or structural repairs are made to such building or
facility in any twelve (12) month period which affect twenty-five percent (25%)
or more of the total floor area of such building or facility.
   (B)   Approval of Plans and Specifications.
      (1)   All plans and specifications for the erection of public buildings
covered by subsection (A) of this section shall be submitted to the City
Council prior to bidding and awarding the contract.
      (2)   Such plans and specifications shall be checked for compliance with
this chapter, and no construction contract for any public building shall be
awarded unless and until the plans and specifications are approved as being in
compliance with this chapter by the City Council.
§ 3-2-32 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be subject to the enforcement provisions contained in 61
O.S. §§ 101 et seq.
CHAPTER 3: TAXES
Section
Article A. Sales Tax
   
3-3A-1   Title
   
3-3A-2   Definitions
   
3-3A-3   Taxes Imposed; Effective Dates; Purposes
   
3-3A-4   Subsisting State Permits
   
3-3A-5   Classification of Taxpayers
   
3-3A-6   Sales Subject to Tax; Exemptions
   
3-3A-7   Tax Due Date
   
3-3A-8   Payment of Tax; Brackets
   
3-3A-9   Collection by Vendors
   
3-3A-10   Returns, Remittances and Discounts
   
3-3A-11   Delinquencies; Interest and Penalties
   
3-3A-12   Fraudulent Returns
   
3-3A-13   Enforcement of Payment
   
3-3A-14   Refund of Erroneous Payments
   
3-3A-15   Records Confidential
   
3-3A-16   Amendments
   
3-3A-17   Provisions Cumulative
Article B. Use Tax
   
3-3B-1   Title
   
3-3B-2   Definitions
   
3-3B-3   Classification of Taxpayers
   
3-3B-4   Subsisting State Permits
   
3-3B-5   Purpose of Revenues
   
3-3B-6   Tax Imposed
   
3-3B-7   Exemptions
   
3-3B-8   Tax Due Date; Payment
   
3-3B-9   Tax Constitutes Debt
   
3-3B-10   Collection of Tax by Retailer or Vendor
   
3-3B-11   Deductions for Vendors of Other States
   
3-3B-12   Delinquencies; Interest and Penalties
   
3-3B-13   Erroneous Payments; Claim for Refund
   
3-3B-14   Fraudulent Returns
   
3-3B-15   Records Confidential
   
3-3B-16   Provisions Cumulative
   
3-3B-17   Revocation of Permit
   
3-3B-18   Effective Date
Article C. Utilities Tax
   
3-3C-1   Tax Levied
   
3-3C-2   Tax to Be Annually or as Approved by Manager
   
3-3C-3   Failure to Pay Tax
   
3-3C-4   Tax to Constitute a Prior Lien
   
3-3C-5   Record of Sales
Article D. Lodging Tax
   
3-3D-1   Citation and Codification
   
3-3D-2   Definitions
   
3-3D-3   Tax Rate
   
3-3D-4   Exemptions
   
3-3D-5   Tax to Be Separately Designated on Bills
   
3-3D-6   Operator’s Duties
   
3-3D-7   Bond Required; City Collection
   
3-3D-8   Assessment and Determination of Tax
   
3-3D-9   Refunds
   
3-3D-10   Notices
   
3-3D-11   Remedies Exclusive
   
3-3D-12   Agreement of Administration
   
3-3D-13   General Powers of the City Manager
   
3-3D-14   Certificates of Registration
   
3-3D-15   Purposes
   
3-3D-16   Records Confidential
   
3-3D-17   Criminal Penalties
   
3-3D-18   Civil Remedies
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
§ 3-3A-1 TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF CHANDLER SALES TAX
ORDINANCE.
§ 3-3A-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STATE SALES TAX CODE. Reference to the STATE SALES TAX CODE shall mean such
code as set out in 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., as amended.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the city government or the official agency
of the state duly designated according to law or contract, and authorized by
law to administer the collection of the tax levied in this article.
§ 3-3A-3 TAXES IMPOSED; EFFECTIVE DATES; PURPOSES.
   The following city sales taxes, in the total amount of four percent (4%),
shall be imposed and effective as indicated, unless otherwise extended by a
vote of the people. Said taxes have been approved by a majority of the
registered voters of the city voting on same in elections conducted in the
manner prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes:
   Ordinance 745, effective October 1, 1969, levying the first one cent ($0.01)
tax for the support of the functions of the city government.
   Ordinance 1976-03, effective November 1, 1976, levying the second one cent
($0.01) tax for the support of the functions of the city government.
   Ordinance 1980-04, effective May 1, 1980, levying an additional one cent
($0.01) tax earmarked for water system.
   Ordinance 1995-06, effective December 1, 1995, levying an additional one
percent (1%) tax to provide revenues for the use and benefit of the city or any
public trust having the city as beneficiary, with said revenues to be expended
on: a) capital improvements for water plant improvements, sewer plant
improvements, water line repair and replacement, or sewer line repair and
replacement; and/or b) any other public works projects approved by the City
Council; and/or c) the payment of debt service on debt obligations heretofore
issued or to be issued by the city or any public trust having the city as
beneficiary.
§ 3-3A-4 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose.
§ 3-3A-5 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state sales tax code.
§ 3-3A-6 SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS.
   The city sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross
proceeds of such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from
such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes.
§ 3-3A-7 TAX DUE DATE.
   The tax levied under the provisions of this article shall be due and payable
at the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state
sales tax under the state sales tax law.
§ 3-3A-8 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the state tax commission at the
time and in form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the
state sales tax law.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the
state tax commission shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement
of the city and the state tax commission, in the collection of both the city
sales tax and the state sales tax.
§ 3-3A-9 COLLECTION BY VENDORS.
   (A)   The tax levied under the provisions of this article shall be paid by
the consumer or user to the vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every
vendor in the city to collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the
tax levied by this article, or an amount equal, as nearly as possible or
practicable, to the average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed under this article, or the average
equivalent thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts.
   (C)   A vendor who willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
collect the full amount of the tax levied hereof, or willfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions or remits or rebates
to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means,
all or any part of the tax herein levied, or makes in any form of advertising,
verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he is absorbing the tax,
or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a
price including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section 1-4-1 of this code.
§ 3-3A-10 RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax levied and collected under the provisions
of this article shall be made to the state tax commission at the time and in
the manner, form and amount as prescribed for returns and remittances required
by the state sales tax code; and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall
be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said code for collection
of state sales taxes.
§ 3-3A-11 DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Failure to Pay Tax. 68 O.S. § 217, and amendments thereto, is hereby
adopted and made a part of this article, and interest or penalties at the rates
and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be
applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied under
this article; provided, that the failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
   (B)   Waiver. The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer’s failure to pay the city tax as levied under this article
may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or
remittance as applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68
O.S. § 220, and amendments thereto; and to accomplish the purposes of this
section the applicable provisions of said § 220 are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this article.
§ 3-3A-12 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties which may be imposed for the violation of
this article, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports
and remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent
report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion
thereof rightfully due under this article shall be an offense, and, upon
conviction thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be subject to punishment as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
§ 3-3A-13 ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT.
   Taxes, penalty and interest due under the provision of this article shall at
all times constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim, as against the
claims of unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
§ 3-3A-14 REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax levied under the
provisions of this article may be made to any taxpayer making such erroneous
payment in the same manner and procedure, and under the same limitations of
time, as provided for administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68
O.S. § 227, and amendments thereto, and to accomplish the purposes of this
section, the applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
§ 3-3A-15 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, and amendments
thereto, of the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the city sales tax as if herein set forth in full.
§ 3-3A-16 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of the ordinances from which this
article was derived at the elections provided for in section 3-3A-3 of this
article, hereby authorize the City Council, by ordinances duly enacted, to make
such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner
of administering and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the city, as
provided by law.
§ 3-3A-17 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this article shall be cumulative, and in addition to any
and all taxing provisions of this code or city ordinances.
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
§ 3-3B-1 TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF CHANDLER USE TAX
ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-2 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use
tax code, 68 O.S. § 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this article. In addition thereto, for the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city of Chandler, Oklahoma.
   TAX COLLECTOR. As used herein, means the department of the city government
or the official agency of the state, duly designated according to law or
contract authorized by law, to administer the collection of the use tax herein
levied.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-3 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-4 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-5 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the city government, and any and all
revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body for any
purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-6 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Levy of Tax. There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every
person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the city tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into the city, an excise tax on the storage, use
or otherwise consuming within the city of such property at the rate of four
percent (4%) of the purchase price of such property.
   (B)   Payment of Tax; Exception. Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the city, tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into the city. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the city and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside
Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the city or which
is stored in the city pending shipment outside the city or temporarily retained
in the city for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance or other service.
   (C)   Deductions. Any person liable for payment of the use tax authorized
herein may deduct from such use tax any local or municipal sales tax previously
paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted shall not
exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by the city had
been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-7 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the city by a nonresident individual visiting in the city for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the city.
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used.
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use tax
code and the city use tax ordinance, has been paid by the person using such
tangible, personal property in the city, whether such tax was levied under the
laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United States. If
any article of tangible, personal property has already been subjected to a tax
by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or use,
in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma use tax code and
the city use tax ordinance, the provisions of this article shall also apply to
it by a rate measured by the difference only between the rate provided by both
the Oklahoma use tax code and the city use tax ordinance, and the rate by which
the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided, that no credit
shall be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality if that state or
municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma and the
city.
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the city, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the city. Provided, that this
exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated
into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to
taxation under the sales tax code of the city. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS
shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or
processing operations, and generally recognized as such.
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the city.
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the city by an individual with intent to become a resident of the
city where such personal property is for such individual’s personal use or
enjoyment.
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used, or to be used, by commercial airlines or railroads.
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
the city for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-8 TAX DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax
code of the state of Oklahoma.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-9 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-10 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Places of Business Within and Without State. Every retailer or vendor
maintaining places of business both within and without the state of Oklahoma,
and making sales of tangible, personal property from a place of business
outside this state for use in the city, shall, at the time of making such
sales, collect the use tax levied by this article from the purchaser and give
to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by the
Oklahoma tax commission, if said tax commission shall, by regulation, require
such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with said tax commission the
name and address of all his agents operating in the city and location of any
and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business in
the city.
   (B)   Places of Business Outside State. The Oklahoma tax commission may, in
its discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax herein
levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business within
this state but who makes sales of tangible personal property for use in the
city, and by the out of state place of business of any retailer or vendor
maintaining places of business both within and without Oklahoma and making
sales of tangible, personal property at such out of state place of business for
use in the city. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a
permit to collect such taxes by said tax commission in such manner and subject
to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized,
it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the use tax upon all
tangible, personal property sold to his knowledge for use within the city. Such
authority and permit may be canceled when, at any time, said tax commission
considers that such use tax can more effectively be collected from the person
using such property in the city. Provided, however, that in all instances where
such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser within the city
by the retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned
or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to
be subject to applicable municipal sales tax at the point of delivery, and the
tax shall be collected and reported under the taxpayer’s sales tax permit
number accordingly.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-11 DEDUCTIONS FOR VENDORS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Oklahoma tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code.
Remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-12 DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Statutory Provisions Adopted. 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made
a part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the
amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases
of delinquency in reporting and paying the use tax levied by this article.
Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of use tax in the time and manner required
by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this article.
   (B)   Waiver of Interest and Penalties. The interest and penalty, or any
portion thereof, accruing by reason of a retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay
the use tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220, and to accomplish the purposes of this
section, the applicable provisions of said § 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-13 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipal use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state use tax set forth in 68 O.S. § 227. To accomplish
the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-14 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any use tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due
under this article, shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be punished by a fine as established by the city and
costs. Each day of noncompliance with this article shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-15 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, of the
state use tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference
and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the municipal use
tax as if herein set forth in full.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-16 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of municipal ordinances.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-17 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, authorized to collect the use tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
tax commission, said tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided
for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to
such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a corporation
authorized to do business in this state, after the notice and hearing above
provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in this state and
shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied with the
obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code, or any orders, rules
or regulations of the Oklahoma tax commission.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 3-3B-18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This article shall become effective on and after December 1, 1995.
(Ord. 1995-10, passed 12-5-1995)
ARTICLE C. UTILITIES TAX
§ 3-3C-1 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax upon all persons, firms,
associations and corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power,
light, heat, gas, electricity, or water in the City, in an amount equal to two
percent (2%) of the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales in
accordance with 68 O.S. §§ 2601 et seq. This tax shall not apply to any person,
firm or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the City. This tax
shall not apply to those entities exempt from taxation under applicable State
law. The tax shall be in lieu of any other Franchise, License, Occupation or
Excise Tax, levied by the City.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 3-3C-2 TAX TO BE ANNUALLY OR AS APPROVED BY MANAGER.
   The Utility Tax levied in section 3-3C-1 of this article shall be paid in
full annually on or before the 10th day of July, or in such other payment
increments as may be approved by the City Manager, and shall be placed in the
General Revenue Fund of the City.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 3-3C-3 FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax shall be
regarded as a trespasser, and may be ousted from use of any City streets,
roads, rights-of-way or other City-owned facilities. In addition thereto, an
action may be commenced and maintained against such person, firm or corporation
for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same, including
reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 3-3C-4 TAX TO CONSTITUTE A PRIOR LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all of the
assets located within the City, of any such person, firm or corporation engaged
in the business of selling power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 3-3C-5 RECORD OF SALES.
   It is the duty of any person, firm, association or corporation subject to
the tax levied hereunder to keep and maintain records as to the amount of gross
receipts of sales of power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water within the
City, and such records shall be subject to review and audit by the City upon
reasonable request. In addition, a summary of such sales for the preceding
calendar quarter, including the number of customers served, the number of
customers exempt from taxation under applicable Oklahoma Sales Tax laws, the
number of units of gas, electricity or water (cubic feet, kilowatt hours or
gallons, respectively) sold to exempt and nonexempt customers, the gross
receipts from sales to exempt and nonexempt customers, and the amount of Sales
Tax charged and collected with respect to such sales, shall be provided to the
City at the time of payment of the tax levied in this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-13-2017)
ARTICLE D. LODGING TAX
§ 3-3D-1 CITATION AND CODIFICATION.
   This Article shall be known and cited as the City of Chandler Lodging Tax
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-2 DEFINITIONS.
   
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTICLE. Shall mean Article D, Chapter 3, Title 3 of the City Code of the
City of Chandler, Oklahoma.
   CITY. The City of Chandler, Oklahoma.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations, and in
which rooms are used for the accommodation of such occupancy whether such rooms
are in one or several structures. The term shall include hotels, apartment
hotels, motels, tourist courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, and all
other facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or space are furnished for
consideration. The term shall not include hospitals, mental health care
facilities, assisted living centers or nursing homes.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or rooms in a Hotel.
   OCCUPANT. The person, who for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a Hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a Hotel within the City, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, manager, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such Hotel.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, voluntary
association, firm, club, society, organization or any other entity of whatever
kind or nature.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   RETURN. Any report filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
   ROOM. Any room or suite of rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a
Hotel which is rented, available for rent, or possessed for sleeping
facilities.
   TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this Article.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-3 TAX RATE.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of five percent (5%), in addition to
any and all other excise taxes now in force, upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a
Hotel in this City. Rooms provided free of charge, through barter, trade or any
other arrangement or agreement of any kind or nature, are also subject to such
tax at the sales value of the room so provided. As used herein, SALES VALUE
means the price at which the room would be rented to the operator’s best
customer in the ordinary course of business.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-4 EXEMPTIONS.
   The exemptions from excise tax enumerated in 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq. (the
“Oklahoma Sales Tax Code”) are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference. To the extent any conflicts in connection with the permitted
exemptions should arise under this Article and the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code shall prevail.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-5 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS.
   The operator shall separately designate, charge and show the tax on all
bills, statements, receipts or any other evidence of charge or payment of rent
for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-6 OPERATOR’S DUTIES.
   (A)   Operator Responsible for Collections. The operator shall be
responsible for the collection of the tax from the occupant and shall be liable
to the city for the tax which shall be held in trust by the operator until paid
to the city or the Oklahoma Tax Commission pursuant to an agreement to collect
municipal lodging taxes as set forth in 68 O.S. §§ 2701 et seq. of the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code. The operator shall join the City as a party to any action
brought by the operator to enforce collection of the tax.
   (B)   Records to Be Kept. Every operator shall keep records of every
occupancy and of all rent paid, charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable
thereon in such form as the City Manager or Oklahoma Tax Commission may by
regulation require. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the City Manager, or a duly authorized
agent or employee of the City or the Oklahoma Tax Commission, and shall be
preserved for a period of three years.
   (C)   Returns.
      (1)   In the event of collection of a tax levied pursuant to this Article
by the Oklahoma Tax Commission, each operator shall file with the City Manager
a copy of their completed Oklahoma State Sales Tax Form within twenty (20) days
after the end of each month following the effective date of this Article.
      (2)   In the event of collection of the tax levied pursuant to this
Article by the City, every operator shall file with the City Manager a return
as prescribed by the City and shall contain such information as may be deemed
necessary and proper for the administration of this Article, of any occupancy
and of rents, and of the taxes payable thereon for the period ending on the
last day of each month following the effective date of this Article. Such
return shall be filed within the first twenty (20) days after the end of each
such month. The City Manager may require amended returns to be filed within ten
(10) days after notice specifying the additional information required.
   (D)   Payment of Tax. The payment of the tax levied pursuant to this Article
shall be due prior to the twentieth (20th) day following the month during which
the charge for the occupancy of a Hotel is incurred by the occupant, or at such
times as returns may be submitted to the Oklahoma Tax Commission in accordance
with the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. At the time of filing a return of occupancy
and of rents, each operator shall pay to the city treasurer or the Oklahoma Tax
Commission, in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the municipal
lodging tax under the laws of the State of Oklahoma, the taxes imposed by this
Article upon the rents included in such return. All taxes not paid with a
timely return shall be delinquent. All the taxes for the period for which a
return is required to be filed shall be due from the operator and payable to
the city treasurer or Oklahoma Tax Commission on or before the date fixed for
the filing of the return for such period without regard to whether a return is
filed, or whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents
and the taxes due thereon.
   (E)   Delinquent Taxes. All taxes not paid within twenty (20) calendar days
following the last day of the period for the collection of the tax levied by
this Article shall be delinquent.
   (F)   Interest and Penalties on Unpaid Taxes. If any tax levied by this
Article becomes delinquent, the person responsible and liable for remittance of
such tax shall pay penalties on such unpaid tax at the rates and charges as
established in 68 O.S. § 217, as amended.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-7 BOND REQUIRED; CITY COLLECTION.
   In the event that the initial collection of the tax levied hereunder shall
be collected by the City, or upon termination of an Agreement of Administration
authorized in Section
3-3D-12 hereof, where the City Manager believes that any operator is about to
cease business, leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any
other similar reason, the City Manager deems it necessary in order to protect
revenues under this Article, the City Manager may require such operator to file
with the city a bond issued by a surety company authorized to transact business
in the state in such amount as the City Manager may fix to secure the payment
of any tax or penalties and interest due, or which may become due from such
operator. In the event that the City Manager determines that an operator is to
file such bond, the City Manager shall give notice to such operator specifying
the amount of security required. The operator shall file such security as a
performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit within five (5) days after
such notice unless within such five (5) days the operator shall request in
writing a hearing before the City Council, at which time the necessity and
amount of the bond shall be determined by the City Council. Such determination
shall be final and shall be complied with within fifteen (15) days thereafter.
In lieu of such bond, a cash or securities escrow, in an amount and under terms
approved by the City Manager, may be deposited with the City Manager, who may
at any time after five days notice to the depositor, apply the same to any tax
and/or any penalties due, and for that purpose the securities may be sold at
private or public sale.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-8 ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX.
   If a return required by this Article is not filed, or if a return when filed
is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the
City Manager or the Oklahoma Tax Commission from such information as may be
obtainable. If necessary, the tax may be estimated on the basis of external
indices, such as number of rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents,
types of accommodations and services, number of employees, or other factors.
Written notice of such assessments shall be given to the person liable for the
collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax, unless the person against whom it is
assessed shall apply in writing to the City Council for a hearing within sixty
(60) days after the city gives notice of such assessment, or unless the City
Manager decides to reassess the same. After such hearing, the City Council
shall give written notice of its determination within thirty (30) days to the
person against whom the tax is assessed and such determination shall be final.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-9 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Oklahoma Tax Commission Collection of Tax. If collection of the tax
levied pursuant to this Article is delegated to the Oklahoma Tax Commission
pursuant to an agreement for the collection of a municipally-imposed lodging
tax, the Oklahoma Tax Commission shall be responsible for making refunds to
taxpayers previously collected by it on the City’s behalf in accordance with
the guidelines, procedures, and regulations previously adopted by the Oklahoma
Tax Commission.
   (B)   City Collection of Tax. The City Manager shall direct the refund or
credit of any tax erroneously, illegally or unconstitutionally collected if
written application to the City Manager for such refund is made within two
years from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in the same
period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative of the City Manager,
subject to existing limits on the authority of the City Manager as to amount.
The City Manager, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit
thereof on payments due from the applicant. Whenever a refund is made, the
reasons therefore shall be stated in writing. Such application may be made by
the person who has collected and paid such tax to the city treasurer; however,
no refund of money shall be made to the operator until the operator has repaid
to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is made.
   (C)   Determination and Hearing. Upon application for a refund, the City
Manager may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation
as is deemed necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the City
Manager shall give written notice to the applicant. Such determination shall be
final unless the applicant, within thirty (30) days after such notice, shall
apply in writing to the City Council for a hearing. After such hearing the City
Council shall give written notice within fifteen (15) days of its decision to
the applicant.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-10 NOTICES.
   Notices provided for under this Article shall be deemed to have been given
when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in
the United States mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the
operator. In the absence of written evidence received by the city to the
contrary, the last known address shall be presumed to be the address shown on
the certificate of registration as required by section 3-3D-14.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-11 REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided in this Article shall be the exclusive remedies
available to any person for the review of tax liability imposed hereby.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-12 AGREEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION.
   Upon approval of the tax by a majority of the qualified voters of the City,
the City shall be authorized, but not obligated, to enter into an Agreement of
Administration (the “Agreement”) with the Oklahoma Tax Commission for
collection of the tax levied hereunder. Should the City elect to enter into
said Agreement, operators shall follow the normal rules and procedures of
collection and administration of excise tax as prescribed by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission. In the event of a subsequent change in the administration and
collection of the tax, operators shall be notified in accordance with the
notice provisions required under state law and the rules of the Oklahoma Tax
Commission, or as enumerated in Section 3-3D-10 of this Article where the City
serves as the collector of the tax.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-13 GENERAL POWERS OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   In addition to all other powers granted to the City Manager, the City
Manager is hereby authorized:
      (1)   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
execution of this Article and for the purposes hereof;
      (2)   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a
period not exceeding thirty (30) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit, or
reduce penalties or interest;
      (3)   To delegate functions hereunder to authorized designees for the
city;
      (4)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the amount of
taxes, but not the tax rate, imposed by this Article;
      (5)   To prescribe methods for determining taxable and nontaxable rents;
      (6)   To administer oaths and take affidavits concerning any matter or
proceeding under this Article; and
      (7)   To subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the
production of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to
the performance and the enforcement of this Article and to examine them in
relation thereto.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-14 CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   Every operator shall file with the City Manager a certificate of
registration in a form prescribed by the City Manager within ten days after the
effective date of this Article, or in the case of operators commencing business
or opening new Hotels after such effective date, within three days after such
commencement or opening. The City Manager shall, within five days after such
registration, issue, without charge, to each operator a certificate of
authority empowering such operator to collect the tax from occupants and
provide duplicates thereof for each additional Hotel. Each certificate or
duplicate shall state the Hotel to which it is applicable. Such certificate of
authority shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it
may be seen and will come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking
occupancy. Such certificates shall be nonassignable, nontransferable, and shall
be surrendered immediately to the City Manager upon the cessation of business
at the Hotel named, or upon its sale or transfer.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-15 PURPOSES.
   All taxes collected pursuant to provisions of this Article shall be placed
in the general funds of the City, shall be budgeted and appropriated annually
by the City, and shall be expended exclusively for tourism, recreation, and
economic development initiatives (collectively, the “Authorized Purpose”), for
the use and benefit of the City and any public trust having the City as
beneficiary thereof and/or for the payment of debt service in connection with
obligations heretofore issued, or to be issued, to finance or refinance
expenditures and related costs for such Authorized Purpose.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-16 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records concerning the
administration of the Hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared and,
in order to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, as amended, of
the State Sales Tax Code, and each subsection thereof and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and
applicable to the administration of this Article as if set forth herein.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-17 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   The willful refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances
required by this Article, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for
the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this Article, shall constitute a violation of the Code of
Ordinances of the City and shall be subject to the general penalty set forth in
Section
1-4-1(A) of the City Code of the City.
   (B)   The failure by an operator to file a security bond as required herein,
or failure to register or to display the certificate of registration, or
failure to separately state the tax on the bill or failure to collect such tax
from the occupant, shall constitute a violation of the Code of Ordinances of
the City and shall be subject to the general penalty set forth in Section
1-4-1(A) of the City Code of the City.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 3-3D-18 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   (A)   Whenever any operator, occupant or other person shall fail to collect
and/or pay over any tax, or who owes any tax, penalty or interest imposed by
this Article as herein provided, the City Manager may authorize the city clerk
to file one or more notice of liens on behalf of the City against the real
estate upon which the Hotel is located and/or against all franchises, property
and rights to property, whether real or personal, then belonging to or
thereafter acquired by the person owing the tax pursuant to 68 O.S. §§ 2701 and
2704, as amended.
   (B)   The liens shall, upon proper filing, attach to the real estate and/or
personal property then owned or thereafter acquired by the debtor, whether such
property is used by the debtor in the operation of business or is under the
authority of an assignee, trustee, or receiver for the benefit of creditors,
from the date such taxes are due and payable as permitted by 68 O.S. § 2704, as
amended.
   (C)   The City Manager shall notify the person owing the tax by personal
service or by certified mail that the City will file such liens if any
delinquent taxes, interest and/or penalties are not paid within fifteen (15)
days of receiving such notice.
   (D)   The City Manager may also authorize the city attorney to institute an
action in personam and in rem to enforce payment and collect any delinquent
taxes, penalties and/or interest.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 12-11-2018)
CHAPTER 4: SPECIAL FEES
Section
Article A. Telephone Exchange Fee
   
3-4A-1   Fee Levied
   
3-4A-2   Fee in Lieu of Other Fees, Taxes
Article B. 911 Emergency Service Fee
   
3-4B-1   Emergency Service Fee Levied
   
3-4B-2   Company Administrative Fee
   
3-4B-3   Intergovernmental Charge
   
3-4B-4   Administration
   
3-4B-5   Purpose of Funds
   
3-4B-6   Monthly Collection
   
3-4B-7   Number of Access Lines Taxed
ARTICLE A. TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
§ 3-4A-1 FEE LEVIED.
   (A)   Fee Imposed. There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and
service charge upon each and every person, firm or corporation operating a
telephone exchange in the city, in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the
gross revenues for each current year for exchange telephone transmission
service rendered wholly within the limits of the city, to compensate the city
for the expenses incurred and services rendered incident to the exercise of its
police power, supervision, police regulation and police control of during
construction and operation of lines and equipment of the telephone company in
the city.
   (B)   Due Date; General Fund. The inspection fee and charge shall be due and
payable to the city on or before May 1 of each year, and shall be paid into,
and appropriated and expended from, the general revenue fund of the city.
§ 3-4A-2 FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES, TAXES.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this article by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions; charges; excise, franchise, license,
privilege and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police call systems
of the city.
ARTICLE B. 911 EMERGENCY SERVICE FEE
§ 3-4B-1 EMERGENCY SERVICE FEE LEVIED.
   (A)   Fee Imposed. There shall be imposed a tax of three percent (3%) on the
tariff charges for exchange telephone service or its equivalent of the local
exchange telephone company providing service within the city limits. The tax
shall continue for three (3) years, except as modified as required by law.
   (B)   Ratifying Ordinances. Ordinances ratifying and extending the three
percent (3%) tax will be adopted periodically, as deemed appropriate, by the
City Council.
§ 3-4B-2 COMPANY ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   The local exchange company providing exchange telephone service within the
city shall be entitled to retain as an administrative fee, three percent (3%)
of the tax imposed and collected pursuant to section
3-4B-1 of this article.
§ 3-4B-3 INTERGOVERNMENTAL CHARGE.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to cooperate with other governing
bodies who may impose a similar tax and who wish to participate in the city’s
911 emergency telephone service.
§ 3-4B-4 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to administer the 911 emergency
telephone service in the city.
§ 3-4B-5 PURPOSE OF FUNDS.
   Funds collected from this tax shall be spent for engineering, installation,
administration and other recurring or one time costs necessary to implement,
administer, operate and maintain 911 emergency telephone service in the city.
§ 3-4B-6 MONTHLY COLLECTION.
   The tax shall be collected monthly by the local exchange company and
forwarded, within thirty (30) days of the close of the month in which such
taxes were collected, to the city clerk.
§ 3-4B-7 NUMBER OF ACCESS LINES TAXED.
   No such tax shall be imposed upon more than one hundred (100) exchange
access lines or their equivalent at one location per service user.
TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
1.    RESIDENTIAL SALES
         
2.    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
3.    TAXICABS
         
4.    PEDDLERS, CANVASSERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
         
5.    MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
CHAPTER 1: RESIDENTIAL SALES
Section
   
4-1-1   Definition
   
4-1-2   License Required; Fee; Conditions
   
4-1-3   Application for License
   
4-1-4   Issuance of License; Exceptions; Investigation
   
4-1-5   Persons Exempted
   
4-1-6   Interval Between Sales
   
4-1-7   Signs
   
4-1-8   Sale Area Confined to Premises
   
4-1-9   Revocation or Refusal of License
   
4-1-10   Penalty; Separate Violations
§ 4-1-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESIDENTIAL SALE. Any sale of what is held out to be or is commonly known as
a garage, porch, room, back yard or patio sale or any other type of general
sale conducted from or on any premises not located in a zoning district which
permits such sales, where goods or articles of any type are held out for sale
to the public. This definition shall not include a situation where specific
items are held out for sale and all advertisements of such sale specifically
name the items to be sold.
§ 4-1-2 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   License Required. No person shall hold, conduct, engage in, or
participate in any manner in a residential sale without a license.
   (B)   Fee. There is hereby levied a fee for residential sale licenses in the
amount as established by the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   Compliance with Other Regulations. The issuance of a license shall not
exempt such persons from the terms and provisions of other ordinances.
   (D)   Separate License for Each Location. A separate license shall be
required for each location at which a residential sale is to be held, and no
location shall be eligible for more than one license in any three (3) month
period.
§ 4-1-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An applicant for a license shall furnish the city clerk with the following
information:
   (A)   Full name and address of applicant;
   (B)   The location at which the proposed residential sale is to be held;
   (C)   The serial or identification number of each article to be sold, if it
is obtainable;
   (D)   The date or dates upon which the sale is to be held; and
   (E)   An affidavit from the applicant to the effect that all goods to be
sold at the residential sale are owned by the applicant and have not been
obtained for the purpose of reselling them at the sale.
§ 4-1-4 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXCEPTIONS; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   License Issuance. The city clerk is hereby authorized to grant a
license for a residential sale for a period not to exceed two (2) consecutive
days to any person applying who otherwise complies with the requirements of
this code.
   (B)   Sale Terminated Due to Inclement Weather. If a residential sale is not
held on the dates for which the license is issued or is terminated during the
first day of the sale because of inclement weather conditions, and an affidavit
by the license holder to this effect is submitted, the city clerk may issue
another license to the applicant for a residential sale to be conducted at the
same location within thirty (30) days from the date when the first sale was to
be held.
   (C)   Investigation Authorized. Before issuing a residential sale license,
the city clerk may conduct such investigation as may reasonably be necessary to
determine if there is compliance with this code.
§ 4-1-5 PERSONS EXEMPTED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following:
   (A)   Persons acting pursuant to an order of a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auctions; and
   (D)   Charitable organizations or persons when the proceeds from the sale
are used directly for charitable purposes and the goods or articles are not
sold on a consignment basis.
§ 4-1-6 INTERVAL BETWEEN SALES.
   No person shall hold, conduct, engage in or participate in any manner or
allow a residential sale to be held or conducted on premises under his control
or ownership more than one time in any three (3) month period, subject however,
to the exception allowed in this chapter.
§ 4-1-7 SIGNS.
   (A)   Number of Signs. Not more than one sign or other device used for the
purpose of advertising or otherwise calling attention to a residential sale
shall be allowed for each residential sale licensed under this chapter.
   (B)   Location; Size. The sign, or device, shall be located on the immediate
premises where the sale is to be conducted, but in no event shall the sign or
device be more than two hundred feet (200') from the sale area.
   (C)   Display Surface. The display surface of a sign or device shall not
exceed twelve (12) square feet on each side.
§ 4-1-8 SALE AREA CONFINED TO PREMISES.
   The sale area of any residential sale shall be confined to the premises for
which the license has been issued, and in no event shall articles or goods be
so displayed as to attract attention, or be conspicuously in view from any
public street.
§ 4-1-9 REVOCATION OR REFUSAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   False Statements in Application. Any license may be revoked or any
application for issuance of a license may be refused by the city clerk if the
application submitted by the applicant or license holder contains any false,
fraudulent or misleading statement.
   (B)   Conviction of Offense by Licensee. If any person is convicted of an
offense under this chapter, the city clerk is instructed to cancel any existing
residential sale license held by the person convicted and not to issue such
person another residential sale license for a period of two (2) years from the
time of conviction.
§ 4-1-10 PENALTY; SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section 3-1-14 of this code. Every article sold and
every day a sale is conducted in violation of this code shall constitute a
separate offense.
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Article A. Occupation Tax and Regulations
   
4-2A-1   Definitions
   
4-2A-2   Tax Levied; Licensing Requirements
   
4-2A-3   Certificates of Compliance: Application and Issuance
   
4-2A-4   Restriction on Location of Package Store, Mixed Beverage Establishment
or Beer and Wine Establishment
   
4-2A-5   Regulations and Restrictions
Article B. Reserved
ARTICLE A. OCCUPATION TAX AND REGULATIONS
§ 4-2A-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Code, words and phrases shall have the meaning as
defined pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, at 37A O.S. §§
1-101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 4-2A-2 TAX LEVIED; LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The fee schedule hereinafter set forth, shall be levied and collected
by the City Clerk, or the Clerk’s designee, for the applicable license, fees,
permits or occupational tax levies, prior to the issuance of any such license
permit or conducting of the business of serving alcoholic beverages. The city’s
fee schedule contained in Title 1, Chapter 10,
Section 1 and following of the Chandler City Code is hereby amended to reflect
the fees set forth in Section (B) hereof. Nothing contained herein is intended
to impair the City’s ability to amend said fees by resolution.
   (B)   Occupational Taxes relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages (as
defined in 37A O.S. § 1-103) are as follows:
      (1)   Large Brewer: $1,250.00.
      (2)   Small Brewer: $125.00.
      (3)   Distiller: $3,125.00.
      (4)   Winemaker: $ 625.00.
      (5)   Oklahoma Winemaker: $75.00
      (6)   Rectifier: $3,125.00.
      (7)   Wholesaler (effective October 1, 2018 “Wine and Spirits
Wholesaler”): $3,500.00.
      (8)   Class B Wholesaler (effective October 1, 2018 “Beer Distributor”):
$625.00.
      (9)   Package Store: $500.00.
      (10)   Retail Wine (effective October 1, 2018): $500.00.
      (11)   Retail Beer (effective October 1, 2018): $500.00.
      (12)   Mixed Beverage: $1,005.00 - (Initial license); $905.00 -
(Renewal).
      (13)   Mixed Beverage (beer and wine only): $500.00.
      (14)   Mixed Beverage/Caterer Combination: $1,000.00.
      (15)   Special Event (Per Day): $100.00.
   (C)   Term of License; Payment of Fee.
      (1)   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall expire on June
30 of the year for which it was issued. The tax hereby levied shall be paid no
later than the first day of July following the issuance or renewal of a liquor
license by the State of Oklahoma.
      (2)   The cost of a license of any type or class applied for during the
fiscal year shall be a pro rata part of the cost of the yearly license;
provided that the cost of the license shall be computed on a monthly basis.
Licenses issued on or after the fifteenth day of any month shall be charged for
on the basis of the first day of the next month.
      (3)   Failure to timely pay to the City any initial or renewal occupation
tax as required hereunder shall constitute a municipal offense, the penalty for
which upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with section 1-4-1(A) of
the Chandler City Code. Each day in which such tax remains due and unpaid shall
constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 4-2A-3 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE: APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the City Clerk to issue Certificates
of Compliance with the municipal zoning ordinances and health, safety and fire
codes as required by 37A O.S. Applicants shall furnish to the office of the
City Clerk such information as the City staff may require, together with a
bond, surety, cash, or other negotiable instrument sufficient to satisfy the
occupational tax imposed by this chapter. Said bond, surety, cash, or other
negotiable instrument shall be payable to the City of Chandler at such time as
the applicant is licensed by the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   An applicant’s proposed location and use thereof shall be in
conformance with the laws of the State of Oklahoma and with the ordinances of
the City of Chandler and shall pass all necessary health, safety and fire code
inspections or no Certificate of Compliance shall issue. The City Clerk shall
act with regard to the issuance or refusal of said Certificates of Compliance
within twenty (20) days after the receipt of an application therefore.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 4-2A-4 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION OF PACKAGE STORE, MIXED BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENT
OR BEER AND WINE ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any package store, mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club which has been
licensed by the ABLE Commission and which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package
store, to be located within three hundred (300) feet of any public or private
school or church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and
religious activities
   (B)   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment, bottle club or package store which has been licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments, or
bottle clubs, which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-
premises consumption or retail package stores prior to November 1, 2000;
provided, if at the time of application for license renewal the licensed
location has not been in actual operation for a continuous period of more than
sixty (60) days, the license shall not be renewed; or
      (2)   Establishments licensed prior to October 1, 2018, to sell low-point
beer which were permitted to be located within three hundred (300) feet of any
public or private school or church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities, pursuant to the provisions of 37
O.S. § 163.27. Such establishments shall be permitted to have any license in
effect on October 1, 2018, transferred to a mixed beverage license; provided,
if such an establishment ceases to regularly be open to the public or changes
ownership, the provisions of this paragraph shall cease to apply.
   (D)   If any school or church shall be established within three hundred
(300) feet of any package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section after
such package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment
or bottle club has been licensed, the provisions of this section shall not be a
deterrent to the renewal of such license if there has not been a lapse of more
than sixty (60) days. When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section which
has a license to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, or
package store, changes ownership or the operator thereof is changed and such
change of ownership results in the same type of business being conducted on the
premises, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
issuance of a license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise
qualified.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 4-2A-5 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date hereof all matters relating to the
regulation of alcoholic beverages shall be governed by the provisions of the
Alcohol Beverage Control Act, codified in 37A O.S., except as may be otherwise
provided for by the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   (a)   To knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages to
any person under twenty-one (21) years of age;
      (2)   Who is under the age of twenty-one (21) to misrepresent his age in
writing or by presenting documentation of age for the purpose of inducing any
person to sell him alcoholic beverages;
      (3)   To knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged mentally deficient;
      (4)   To open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a retail package store; or for any operator of a retail package
store, or any person in charge thereof, to permit any person to open a retail
container therein or consume alcoholic beverages therein;
      (5)   To drink intoxicating liquor in public or to be intoxicated in a
public place; provided, however, the city council of the city shall be
authorized to waive the prohibition against consumption for specific events, or
types of events, upon proper application and under such conditions as the
council deems appropriate for such event or types of events.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-11-2018)
ARTICLE B. RESERVED
   Reserved by Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-11-2018.
CHAPTER 3: TAXICABS
Section
   
4-3-1   License Required
   
4-3-2   License Fee; Insurance
   
4-3-3   Operator License Issuance
   
4-3-4   Inspection of Vehicles
   
4-3-5   Appeal from Denial or Revocation of License
   
4-3-6   Revocation of License
   
4-3-7   Penalty
§ 4-3-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of operating a
taxicab, motorcar, automobile, motor bus or other vehicle for the purpose of
transporting passengers for hire upon, over and through the streets, avenues,
thoroughfares or other public places within the city limits without having
first obtained a license to engage in such business from the city clerk.
§ 4-3-2 LICENSE FEE; INSURANCE.
   A license to operate a taxicab, motorcar, automobile, or motor bus business
within the city, or upon the streets and public ways may be issued by the city
clerk to any person, firm or corporation of good moral character attested to by
the affidavit of two (2) residents of the city, who shall apply by submitting
the following:
   (A)   Fee. A license fee as established by the city’s fee schedule, the
license to terminate on June 30, next, thereafter;
   (B)   Certificate of Insurance. A certificate from an insurance company
licensed to do business within the state not cancelable without ten (10) days’
notice to the city, indemnifying the city or any person to whom the applicant
may become liable in such amount as established by the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   List of Vehicles and Operators; Proof of Insurance. A list of the
motor vehicles to be used in the business, duly showing that they, and each of
them, are covered by the insurance mentioned in this section and a list of
operators who are to operate the motor vehicles.
§ 4-3-3 OPERATOR LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   A license for the driving and operating of such motor vehicles for hire
within the city shall be issued to any person of good moral character, attested
to by the affidavits of two (2) residents of the city, who has not had his
motor vehicle operator’s license or commercial chauffeur’s license revoked by
the commissioner of public safety of the state or his counterpart in any other
state within three (3) years immediately prior to the date of the application
and who has not been convicted of a felony, which information shall be attested
to by the chief of police according to his best knowledge, and who shall:
   (A)   Exhibit to the city clerk proof of his being the holder of a valid
commercial chauffeur’s license by the state; and
   (B)   Submit to the city clerk a recent photograph not less than one inch by
one inch (1" x 1") and not larger than two inches by four inches (2" x 4") in
size for attachment to a license for such driver, and the license shall be
permanently and visibly displayed at all times in the taxicab or motor vehicle
operated by the driver for hire.
§ 4-3-4 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Requirement. Every person, firm or corporation obtaining a license
hereunder shall, at least twice in each calendar year, have each vehicle so
used inspected for operational safety and furnish the city clerk proof of the
safe condition of each vehicle.
   (B)   Inspection Authorized. The chief of police of the city or any highway
patrol officer of this state shall be deemed qualified to conduct the
inspection.
§ 4-3-5 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Issuance or revocation of, or refusal to issue, the foregoing license or
permits, and each of them, by the city clerk may be appealed to the city
council, by any citizen of the city, or person, firm or corporation aggrieved.
§ 4-3-6 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The license shall be revoked immediately upon termination of required
insurance, failing to keep the list of automotive equipment and drivers up to
date in the office of the city clerk or for good cause shown.
§ 4-3-7 PENALTY.
   Any breach of this chapter by: a) failing to obtain the license; b)
operating without a license; or c) failing to prominently and visibly display
the same, shall constitute a breach of the ordinances of the city and shall be
punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each day of such
operation without a license, insurance or operator’s license, shall constitute
a separate breach and offense.
CHAPTER 4: PEDDLERS, CANVASSERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
4-4-1   Definitions
   
4-4-2   License Required
   
4-4-3   Application for License
   
4-4-4   Revocation of License
   
4-4-5   Duty of Solicitors
   
4-4-6   Exceptions
   
4-4-7   Time Limit on Soliciting
   
4-4-8   Fees
   
4-4-9   Identification Tag, Display
   
4-4-10   Enforcement
   
4-4-11   Penalties for Violation
§ 4-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity seeking to obtain a license for solicitation
from the city of Chandler.
   LICENSED SOLICITOR. Shall mean and include any person who has obtained a
valid solicitor’s license as hereinafter provided, which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Includes all buildings, structures, and units in
the city of Chandler occupied for nonresidential purposes.
   RESIDENCE. Shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Shall mean and include any one or more of the following
activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, or services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or publication; or
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project; or
      (5)   Seeking to canvass the residents of the city of Chandler;
      (6)   Seeking to advertise, promote or sell any product, goods or
services;
      (7)   Seeking to hand out, place or distribute upon private property
handbills or other written material advertising goods or services for sale.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as exempted herein, each itinerant vendor, canvasser, solicitor or
peddler shall obtain a solicitor’s license from the city of Chandler prior to
any soliciting within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applicants for licenses shall make application with the city clerk during
regular business hours upon an application form provided by the city of
Chandler and signed by the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a
partnership, and by a qualified corporate officer if a corporation, providing,
as a minimum, the information required in this section. The applicant shall
truthfully state and provide in full the following information, or no license
shall issue:
   (A)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address; also a business address if other than present address;
   (B)   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if other
than present address;
   (C)   Age of applicant;
   (D)   Physical description of the applicant;
   (E)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation;
   (F)   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if other
than the present employer;
   (G)   The nature of the goods or products being sold, that is whether they
are “seconds”, rejects or first line quality, and whether or not any warranty
applies to the items being sold; if a warranty applies, the period of the
warranty and the name and address of the warrantor and the procedures for
filing for the adjustment of refund or return of goods shall be specified;
   (H)   Period of time for which the license is applied;
   (I)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
license under this chapter, if any;
   (J)   Has a license issued to the applicant under this chapter ever been
revoked?
   (K)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of a felony under
the laws of the state of Oklahoma or any other state or federal law of the
United States?
   (L)   Names of the three (3) most recent communities where the applicant has
solicited;
   (M)   Proposed method of operation;
   (N)   Signature of applicant;
   (O)   Social Security number of applicant;
   (P)   Driver’s license number of applicant;
   (Q)   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
state and city sales taxes due on all items which are subject to sales taxes
and recognizes that a copy of all applications will be provided to the local
office of the Oklahoma tax commission;
   (R)   Copy of a current Oklahoma sales tax permit; and
   (S)   A photograph of each person who will be soliciting under the
applicant. Photographs shall have been taken no more than sixty (60) days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, and shall show
the head and shoulders of the person(s) in a clear and distinguishing manner.
      All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
      The city clerk shall cause to be kept at city hall an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto and all licenses issued under the provisions of
this chapter, and of the denial of applications.
      No license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the
commission of a felony (except crimes relating to political protest) under the
laws of the state of Oklahoma or any other state or federal law of the United
States, within five (5) years of the date of the application; nor to any person
who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
nor any person whose license has been revoked as herein provided.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-4 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued hereunder shall be revoked if the holder of the license
is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has
made a false material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes
disqualified for the issuance of a license under the terms of this chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
city of Chandler to the holder of the license in person or by certified United
States mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the
application.
   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the license shall become null
and void.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-5 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
city of Chandler upon which a “residence” as herein defined is located, to
first examine the door for any posted notices. If there is a notice stating “No
Solicitors”, then the solicitor, whether licensed or not, shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises and shall not leave any material,
merchandise, or literature whatsoever on the premises.
   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or
not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested
to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-6 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from all license and fee requirements of this
chapter:
   (A)   Charitable Organizations. For the purpose of this subsection (A),
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION means any nonprofit, tax exempt, charitable, education,
religious or government organization as those terms are defined by applicable
state and federal laws.
   (B)   Political Canvassing. Solicitations exclusively intended to canvass or
petition for a public official, political candidate, public policy or
initiative being promoted for purposes of a public referendum, initiative, or
election.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-7 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute an offense for any
person whether licensed under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises and
ring the doorbell of a residence located therein, or rap or knock upon any door
or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of
the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with
the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, except between
the following hours:
   (A)   May 1 to September 30: Eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to nine o’clock (9:
00) P.M.
   (B)   October 1 to April 30: Eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to seven o’clock (7:
00) P.M.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-8 FEES.
   The fees for licenses herein required shall be as established by the city’s
fee schedule.
   (A)   Fees prescribed herein shall not be refunded to any business operating
for less than the full period to which the fee applies.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-9 IDENTIFICATION TAG, DISPLAY.
   The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the area where the
solicitor’s business is to be conducted, or otherwise hung from the vehicle
mirror or carried upon the person of such vendor who is soliciting within the
city of Chandler.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The building inspector, compliance officer, or other municipal law
enforcement officer shall enforce this chapter and shall have the authority to
issue citations to any person, firm, or corporation which violates, in any
manner, this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 4-4-11 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or who
disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or resists enforcement
of, any section of this chapter, is subject to payment of a fine as established
by the city, plus costs, for each violation.
   (B)   Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines
as provided by this subsection, below. As used in this section, a REPEAT
OFFENSE is defined as a second or subsequent violation of the same requirement
or provision of this chapter within a one year period. The increased fine for a
repeat offense under this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
as established by the city, plus costs.
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second or subsequent offense,
shall be as established by the city, plus costs.
   (C)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter occurs or continues
constitutes a separate offense subject to separate penalties.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 4-14-2009)
CHAPTER 5: MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
Section
   
4-5-1   Definitions
   
4-5-2   Retail Medical Marijuana Dispensaries
   
4-5-3   Retail Medical Marijuana Dispensary Location Restrictions
   
4-5-4   Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing Facilities
   
4-5-5   Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing Facilities Location Restrictions
   
4-5-6   Commercial Medical Marijuana Processing Facilities
   
4-5-7   Commercial Medical Marijuana Processing Facilities Location
Restrictions
   
4-5-8   Inspections
   
4-5-9   Other Regulations
   
4-5-10   Penalties
§ 4-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   All medical marijuana facilities permitted by this ordinance are hereby
defined as any such facility which is properly licensed by the State of
Oklahoma.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-2 RETAIL MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   All operators of retail medical marijuana dispensaries are required to
obtain a Retail Medical Marijuana Dispensary permit from the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The Retail Medical Marijuana Dispensary permit fee shall be six
hundred dollars ($600.00) per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and
enforcement of retail medical marijuana dispensaries.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-3 RETAIL MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A Retail Medical Marijuana Dispensary permit will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location is outside of a commercial zone of
the corporate city limits of Chandler.
   (B)   A Retail Medical Marijuana Dispensary permit will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be situated within one thousand
(1,000) feet of any public or private elementary, middle, or high school.
   (C)   For the distance requirement outlined in subsection (B), the distance
shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in Section
4-5-3(B) is located to the main entrance of the public or private school.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-4 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All operators of a commercial medical marijuana growing facility are
required to obtain a Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing Facility permit from
the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The Medical Marijuana Growing Facility permit fee shall be six hundred
dollars ($600.00) per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses
covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement
of commercial medical marijuana growing facilities.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-5 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing Facility permit will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location is outside of an
Industrial or Agricultural zone, or such other zone as may hereinafter
specifically permit the same.
   (B)   A Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing permit will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be situated within one thousand
(1,000) feet of any public or private elementary, middle, or high school.
   (C)   For the distance requirement outlined in subsection (B), the distance
shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in Section
4-5-5(B) is located to the main entrance of the public or private school.
   (D)   A commercial medical marijuana growing facility must be constructed in
such a manner that the growing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the
public from a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-6 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All operators of a medical marijuana processing facility are required
to obtain a Medical Marijuana Processing Facility permit from the Municipal
Clerk.
   (B)   The Medical Marijuana Processing Facility permit fee shall be six
hundred dollars ($600.00) per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and
enforcement of commercial medical marijuana processing facilities.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-7 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES LOCATION
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A Commercial Medical Marijuana Processing Facility permit will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location is outside an Industrial
or Agricultural zone or such other zone as may hereinafter specifically permit
the same.
   (B)   A Commercial Medical Marijuana Processing permit will not be granted
to any applicant where the proposed location would be situated within one
thousand (1,000) feet of any public or private elementary, middle, or high
school.
   (C)   For the distance requirement outlined in subsection (B), the distance
shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in Section
4-5-7(B) is located to the main entrance of the public or private school.
   (D)   A commercial medical marijuana processing facility must be constructed
in such a manner that the growing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the
public from the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-8 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All permits outlined in this ordinance will be subject to inspection
by an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   (B)   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the municipal inspector.
   (C)   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   (D)   After a medical marijuana facility permit has been issued under this
Chapter, the City’s permitting authority, or agent thereof, shall be authorized
to enter upon and inspect the operations being conducted therein to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this ordinance. Such inspection shall take
place during regular business hours of such facility and upon reasonable notice
to the operator of such facility.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-9 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City of Chandler hereby adopts those regulations governing
commercial medical-marijuana businesses as have been, and may be, codified in
310 OAC Chapter 681, as that Chapter may be amended from time to time. The
provisions of said chapter of the OAC, shall take effect and be controlling
within the City’s limits such that a violation of those regulations shall be a
violation of this Code, though nothing in this Section shall grant to the city
the power or jurisdiction to prosecute offenses that a city is not authorized
to prosecute. Copies of 310 OAC Chapter 681 shall be available in the City
Clerk’s office.
   (B)   A plan for ventilation of a medical-marijuana-business facility shall
be submitted to the City prior to a permit being granted and shall describe to
the City’s satisfaction the ventilation systems that will be used to prevent
any unreasonable odor of marijuana from escaping the facility.
   (C)   Fire separation and suppression. A plan for fire separation at a
medical-marijuana-business facility shall be submitted to the City prior to a
permit being granted and shall describe to the City’s satisfaction the manner
by which any fire generated at such facility shall be contained within and
prevented from spreading to any adjacent structures. The same plan shall
describe to the City’s satisfaction the manner by which any such fire within
the facility shall be suppressed.
   (D)   Use of marijuana on public property. Smoking or using marijuana shall
be prohibited on all city property including vehicles, buildings, parks or
other city facilities.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
§ 4-5-10 PENALTIES.
   Penalties for violations of this Chapter shall be, in the City’s discretion,
a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200) per day of violation, or
revocation of permit, or both. Each day that a violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. The dollar amount of the fine imposed hereby is
subject to amendment by resolution of the City’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-20-2018)
TITLE 5: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      Chapter
         
1.    FIRE DEPARTMENT
         
2.    AMBULANCE SERVICE
         
3.    GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
         
4.    NUISANCES
         
5.    WEEDS AND TRASH
         
6.    JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
         
7.    FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
8.    FIREWORKS
         
9.    METHAMPHETAMINE CONTAMINATED PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
5-1-1   Department Created; Membership
   
5-1-2   Fire Chief and Assistant Chief
   
5-1-3   Company Officers
   
5-1-4   Bylaws
   
5-1-5   Rules and Regulations
   
5-1-6   Use of Fire Equipment; Inventory and Repair
   
5-1-7   Fire Calls Outside City Limits
§ 5-1-1 DEPARTMENT CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Fire Protection. The purpose of the city’s volunteer fire department
is to comply with state law in providing for a uniform system of fire
protection for the lives and property of the people of the city.
   (B)   Volunteer Firefighter Defined. For the purpose of this section, the
term VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER shall mean one who is enrolled as a member of the
fire department of the city and who serves in that capacity without receiving a
regular salary.
   (C)   Size. The size of the volunteer fire department of the city shall be
as determined by the city council.
§ 5-1-2 FIRE CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   (A)   Fire Chief. The chief shall be at the head of the department, subject
to the laws of the state, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   The chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him;
      (2)   The chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
      (3)   The chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
      (4)   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct
the officers and members in the performance of their duties;
      (5)   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department;
      (6)   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case;
      (7)   The chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
city at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice on persons for any violations that may be found; and
      (8)   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the city manager as he may require.
   (B)   Assistant Chief.
      (1)   The assistant chief shall be appointed by the fire chief with the
approval of the city manager.
      (2)   In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on duty shall
command the department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with
the full powers and responsibilities of the chief.
§ 5-1-3 COMPANY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Selection Criteria. Company officers shall be selected by the chief
based upon the following criteria:
      (1)   Knowledge of firefighting;
      (2)   Leadership ability; and
      (3)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
   (B)   Secretary-Treasurer. One member elected by the members of the fire
department shall be a secretary-treasurer. His duties shall consist of the
following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due the department by the members.
§ 5-1-4 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   (A)   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held
each month.
   (D)   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three
(3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped from the
fire department rolls.
   (E)   Any member leaving the city for an extended period of time is required
to notify the chief.
   (F)   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the department will be dropped.
   (G)   Any member of the fire department may be dropped from the rolls for
the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony; or
      (6)   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the
city council.
   (H)   Volunteer firefighters called to respond to an emergency will be paid
in such amounts as set from time to time by the city council for upkeep of
uniforms and safety equipment and cost of using personal vehicles to go to
emergency scenes and monthly meetings.
(Ord. 1993-02, passed 6-1-1993)
§ 5-1-5 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city council, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change regulations
relating to the fire department, its organization, operation and compensation.
§ 5-1-6 USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Use of Equipment.
      (1)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the department.
      (2)   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the department.
   (B)   Inventory. The chief may prepare and keep a complete inventory of all
property belonging to the fire department, and shall, at the expiration of his
term, turn over such inventory and all such property to his successor, together
with all books, records, reports and data of the department.
   (C)   Report Repairs to Manager. The chief may report to the city manager
any necessary repairs, alterations or improvements needed by the fire
department with an estimate of their probable cost, and shall superintend the
making of the repairs, alterations or improvements, and, if any apparatus shall
become disabled for immediate use, he shall repair the same and report his
action to the manager.
§ 5-1-7 FIRE CALLS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Contracts Authorized. The city is hereby authorized and empowered to
enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the state for fire
protection outside the corporate limits of the city, and to contract to provide
fire protection jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of
the state.
   (B)   Contract Terms, Fees for Services.
      (1)   Any contract entered into by the city with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation, or association for outside aid, or mutual aid for
fire protection shall provide for the payment by the owner, firm, private
corporation, or association, or political subdivision to the city for such fire
apparatus and personnel at the rate as set by the council for initial call and
per truck per hour or fraction thereof.
      (2)   All monies received from the calls shall go into the general fund
or as designated by the council.
   (C)   Authority to Answer Calls. The fire department of the city is hereby
authorized and directed to answer all calls outside the corporate city limits
in the discretion of the fire chief. The fire department may not answer such
outside calls if, in the opinion of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to do so
on account of another fire in the city, broken apparatus, impassable or
dangerous highways, or other physical conditions.
   (D)   Firefighters’ Service in Regular Line of Duty.
      (1)   All volunteer firefighters of the fire department of the city
attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the
corporate limits of the city, as herein provided, shall be considered as
serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were serving within
the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   The firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any
firefighters’ pension and relief fund in the same manner as if the firefighting
or fire prevention work were being done within the corporate limits of the
city.
      (3)   Compensation of firefighters shall be as provided by the council by
motion or resolution.
   (E)   Department Considered Agent of State. The fire department of the city
answering any fire alarm, or call, or performing any fire prevention services
outside the corporate limits of the city shall be considered as an agent of the
state and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and the city
shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission, or
negligence while answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or
doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of this section.
CHAPTER 2: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
   
5-2-1   Ambulance Service Created
   
5-2-2   Control and Operation
   
5-2-3   Monthly Examination
   
5-2-4   Contract for Services
   
5-2-5   Mutual Aid Agreements
§ 5-2-1 AMBULANCE SERVICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created an ambulance service within the city which shall
charge such rates as may be established by the city council from time to time.
The ambulance service shall furnish ambulance service throughout the city and
its general vicinity.
§ 5-2-2 CONTROL AND OPERATION.
   (A)   Administrative Control. The ambulance service is placed under the fire
chief or such other persons as may be designated by him for administrative
control.
   (B)   Operation. The operation of the ambulance service shall be performed
by the members of the fire department and other qualified personnel as
appointed by the fire chief. It shall be operated in compliance with the laws
and regulations of the state of Oklahoma and the rules and regulations set
forth by the city council.
§ 5-2-3 MONTHLY EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Examination Required. The fire chief, or some member of the fire
department authorized by him, shall, once in each month, examine the condition
of the ambulances and all ambulance equipment and make a report on the
condition of the same to the city manager.
   (B)   Record of Ambulance Runs and Patients. The fire chief shall keep a
complete record in his office of all runs made by the ambulances, the names of
the patients, the point where the patient was received and the place to which
the patient was delivered.
§ 5-2-4 CONTRACT FOR SERVICES.
   The city ambulance service shall have the authority as authorized by the
city council to enter into subscription contract service with private parties
on an annual basis with the rates approved by the city council.
§ 5-2-5 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The city ambulance service shall have the authority to enter into mutual aid
agreements with other ambulance services from other adjoining ambulance
services as required by state law.
CHAPTER 3: GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-3-1   Enforcement by County Health Department
   
5-3-2   Obstructing Health Officer
   
5-3-3   Penalty
§ 5-3-1 ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   County Enforcement. Anywhere in this code where the words HEALTH
OFFICER are used, it shall be construed to mean the director of the county
health department or his duly designated representative.
   (B)   Appeal; Council Review. It is the intent and purpose of the mayor and
city council to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of the city
as set out in this section and any such decisions rendered under this section
shall be subject to review by the city council upon an appeal from an offender.
§ 5-3-2 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
the city.
§ 5-3-3 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violation.
CHAPTER 4: NUISANCES
Section
   
5-4-1   Nuisances Defined
   
5-4-2   Responsibility; Nuisance Unlawful
   
5-4-3   Time Does Not Legalize
   
5-4-4   Remedies
   
5-4-5   Power to Define and Summarily Abate Nuisances
   
5-4-6   Certain Public Nuisances Defined
   
5-4-7   Health Nuisances; Abatement
   
5-4-8   Summary Abatement of Nuisances
   
5-4-9   Abatement by Suit in District Court
   
5-4-10   Procedure Cumulative
§ 5-4-1 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   Nuisance. For the purpose of this chapter, a NUISANCE is unlawfully
doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or is any thing or condition which
either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   (B)   Public Nuisance. For the purpose of this chapter, a PUBLIC NUISANCE is
one which affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood or any
considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage
inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
   (C)   Private Nuisance. Every nuisance not included in subsection (B) of
this section is a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
§ 5-4-2 RESPONSIBILITY; NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Persons Responsible. Every successive owner of property who neglects
to abate a continuing nuisance upon, or in the use of, such property, created
by a former owner, is liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first
created it.
   (B)   Nuisance Unlawful. It is unlawful for any person, including, but not
limited to, any owner, lessee, or other person, to create or maintain a
nuisance within the city or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under
his control within the city.
§ 5-4-3 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
§ 5-4-4 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Public Nuisances. The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      (2)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; or
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By a person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
         (b)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
   (B)   Private Nuisances. The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action;
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By a person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
         (b)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
§ 5-4-5 POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES.
   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the city has power to determine what is, and
what shall constitute, a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks, and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the city
has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner
and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be done.
§ 5-4-6 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   Nuisances Enumerated. In addition to other public nuisances declared
by other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances.
      (1)   Unwholesome Food. The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome
food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are
made.
      (2)   Liquor. The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of intoxicating
liquor in violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or keeping of a
place where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or furnished in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the city.
      (3)   Obscene Literature. The exposure, display, sale, or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or
the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed.
      (4)   Gambling. The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by
cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise.
      (5)   House of Prostitution. The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced.
      (6)   Place Where Unlawful Activities Occur. The keeping of a place where
activities in violation of state law or ordinance are practiced or carried on.
      (7)   Illegal Dances. The conduct or holding of public dances in
violation of the ordinances of the city; or the keeping of a place where such
dances are held.
      (8)   Exposure of Persons with Contagious Disease. The public exposure of
a person having a contagious disease.
      (9)   Loud Noises. The continued making of loud or unusual noises which
annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which
makes such noises.
      (10)   Interference with Radio or Television Reception. The operation or
use of any electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly
interferes with radio or television reception by others.
      (11)   Crowds Obstructing Traffic. Any use of a street or sidewalk or a
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance.
      (12)   Liquid or Snow Falling from Building. Permitting water or other
liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or structure
upon any street or sidewalk.
      (13)   Stagnant Water. All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers
of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so
constructed, formed, conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      (14)   Weeds; Objectionable Accumulations. Rank weeds or grass,
carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse, or other things, which are, or are
likely to be, breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs;
and the premises on which such exist.
      (15)   Dangerous Buildings. Every building or other structure that shall
become unsafe and dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become
hazardous from fire, by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other
cause, or shall be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the city or
its inhabitants from any cause.
      (16)   Dangerous Pit or Hole. Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      (17)   Fire or Explosion Hazard. Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety.
      (18)   Dangerous Occupation. Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare.
      (19)   Inoperable Vehicle or Trailer Storage in Residence District. Any
motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any trailer without a
current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on the public
highways, when stored or kept in a residence district.
      (20)   Stables and Offensive Animal Areas. Any stable or other place
where animals are kept that may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of
the city, by reason of any noise or noises made by the animal therein, or by
reason of lack of sanitation, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Provisions Cumulative. The above enumeration of certain public
nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms.
§ 5-4-7 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to Abate.
      (1)   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the director of
the county health department shall have authority to order the owner or
occupant of any private premises in the city to remove from such premises, at
his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to
the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty-four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable, and a
failure to do so shall constitute an offense.
      (2)   Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the director
of the county health department or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may
be left at the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if
known and within the state.
      (3)   If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the owner,
occupant, or agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served
by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least one
issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the city.
   (B)   Abatement by City; Assessment of Costs.
      (1)   If the order is not complied with, the director of the county
health department may cause the order to be executed and complied with, and the
cost thereof shall be certified to the city clerk, and the cost of removing or
abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill or other city utility
bill of the owner or occupant if he is a user of water from the city water
system or such other utility service.
      (2)   The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which
it is added, and shall become due and payable, and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment, as the utility bill itself.
      (3)   If such owner or occupant is not a user of any city utility
service, such cost, after certification to the city clerk, may be collected in
any manner in which any other debt due the city may be collected.
§ 5-4-8 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Immediate Action by City. Some nuisances are of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized
that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the city
manager or other appropriate officer or agency of the city government to take
immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or
suspend the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such
abatement.
   (B)   Statement Submitted to Council. The chief of the fire department,
chief of police, city attorney, building inspector, electrical inspector,
plumbing inspector, or any other officer subordinate to the city manager may
submit, through or with the consent of the mayor to the city council, a
statement as to the existence of a “nuisance” as defined by the ordinances of
the city or law, and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The mayor
himself, the director of the county health department any council member, or
any resident or residents of the city may submit such a statement and request a
recommendation to the city council.
   (C)   Council Determination; Notice of Nuisance.
      (1)   The city council shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books,
papers and other effects.
      (2)   Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the
council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner
of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed responsible
for or to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if
such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the
owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing, by mail, or by
service by a police officer, if their names and addresses are known; but, if
the names or addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
   (D)   Order Abatement by Owner; Summary Abatement by City; Costs Assessed.
      (1)   If the city council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it
shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay.
      (2)   If such peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare would be unduly
jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the council shall direct the city manager to abate the nuisance or to
have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. §
16.
      (3)   The city clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known.
      (4)   Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city
collectible as other debts of the city may be collected.
§ 5-4-9 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
city may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
§ 5-4-10 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other,
and the city may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in
abating any particular nuisance.
CHAPTER 5: WEEDS AND TRASH
Section
   
5-5-1   Legislative Intent
   
5-5-2   Definitions
   
5-5-3   Accumulation of Trash or Weeds Unlawful
   
5-5-4   Report Accumulations on Property
   
5-5-5   Notice Requirements
   
5-5-6   Hearing by Council; Order to Clean Property
   
5-5-7   Work Done by City or Contract
   
5-5-8   Determine Cost; Statement
   
5-5-9   Failure to Pay Costs; Lien
   
5-5-10   Actions of Owner to Avoid Penalty
   
5-5-11   Removal of Dead Animals
   
5-5-12   Depositing Rubbish in Public Places, Waterways
   
5-5-13   Littering
   
5-5-14   Abandoned Ice Boxes, Refrigerators
   
5-5-15   Removal of Garbage by Unauthorized Person Prohibited
   
5-5-16   Penalty
§ 5-5-1 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   It is hereby declared the legislative intent of the city council to conform
hereby to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-111.
§ 5-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEANING. The removal of trash from property.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record as shown by the most current tax roles
of the county treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste or matter of any kind or form which is uncared
for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEEDS.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees,
shrubs or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated
garden, unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute
a detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEEDS shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use.
§ 5-5-3 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH OR WEEDS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any owner of any lot, tract or parcel of land situated
wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the city to allow trash or
weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises and it is the duty of
such owner to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 5-5-4 REPORT ACCUMULATIONS ON PROPERTY.
   Any officer or employee of the city who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the city, shall report such condition to the Code
Enforcement Officer when such premises appear to him to be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic; or
   (C)   A fire hazard to the danger of property.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 5-5-5 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Notice to Owner. Upon receiving the report prescribed by section
5-5-4  of this chapter, the Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner of
the premises of the violation and a compliance date of at least ten calendar
(10) days. The notice shall be given by certified mail with return receipt
requested at the address shown by the current year’s tax roles in the county
treasurer’s office. If the return receipt shows that the property owner cannot
be located, notice shall be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
property or by publication in a newspaper of general circulation one time not
less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (B)   Service of Notice. The service of all notices prescribed by this
chapter shall be evidenced by the return of the officer making such service
certified in his official capacity and filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 5-5-6 HEARING BY COUNCIL; ORDER TO CLEAN PROPERTY.
   The owner may request a hearing before the City Manager or his designee.
Such a request must be submitted to the City Clerk in writing within ten (10)
days of receipt of notice or posting of property. A date and time shall be set
for the hearing and the property owner shall be notified at least ten (10) days
in advance. The administrative officer shall make his determination at the
conclusion of the hearing. If the administrative officer determines that the
accumulation of trash or weeds has caused the owner’s property to become
detrimental to the health, benefit, or welfare of the public, or a traffic or
fire hazard, the officer shall order that the trash or weeds be abated.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 5-5-7 WORK DONE BY CITY OR CONTRACT.
   (A)   Consent of Owner for City Action. In the event that the owner has not
abated the trash or weeds within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of notice of
abatement, or within ten (10) calendar days of an abatement order from the
administrative officer after a hearing, or upon written consent from the owner,
the city shall cause the trash or weeds to be cut, removed or destroyed.
   (B)   Work by City or Contract. The abatement may be done by the city
directly or may be let by contract in accordance with any competitive bidding
requirements of the City of Chandler Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 5-5-8 DETERMINE COST; STATEMENT.
   The code enforcement officer shall determine the actual cost of abatement,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The city clerk shall forward to the
owner a statement and demand for payment thereof.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 5-5-9 FAILURE TO PAY COSTS; LIEN.
   (A)   Notice to County. If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from
the date the statement is postmarked, the City Clerk shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in
which the property is located, and such cost shall be levied on the property
and collected by the county treasurer as other taxes authorized by law.
   (B)   Lien Against Property. The cost thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer, coequal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments
and prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the property, and
the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully paid.
   (C)   Civil Remedy for Collection. At any time prior to collection as
provided in this section, the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection
of the amount owing and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the
City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and
directing discharge of the lien.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 5-5-10 ACTION OF OWNER TO AVOID PENALTY.
   Any owner may avoid the penalty provided in section
5-5-16 of this chapter if, within ten (10) days from the date of receipt of the
notice provided for in section
5-5-5 of this chapter, the owner shall either:
   (A)   Cut, remove or destroy the trash or weeds in accordance with the
notice;
   (B)   Give written consent authorizing the city to abate the trash or weeds
thereby waiving his right to a hearing; and
   (C)   Request in writing to the City Clerk a hearing as provided for in
Section 5-5-6 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 5-5-11 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the city shall,
within twenty-four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure so to do shall constitute a misdemeanor.
§ 5-5-12 DEPOSITING RUBBISH IN PUBLIC PLACES, WATERWAYS.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush or any other refuse
or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley or in any ditch or watercourse, or
upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in the city.
§ 5-5-13 LITTERING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, LITTERING is defined as
throwing any trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin can, bottles, or any other object
or substance whatever upon the public streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks
of the city or upon any real property owned or occupied by another.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to litter.
   (C)   Littering from Vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to throw from
any automobile or motor vehicle being operated and driven upon and over the
streets, alleys and roadways of the city, any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin
cans or any other substance or refuse whatever.
   (D)   Litter Accumulation on Property.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any
real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow trash, wastepaper, litter
objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to
accumulate upon such real property or premises being so occupied or rented to
such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any
real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash,
wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of
objects to be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements
or otherwise to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by
the offender.
§ 5-5-14 ABANDONED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave in a place accessible to children any
abandoned, unattended, or discarded ice box, refrigerator, or other container
of a capacity of one and one-half (1-1/2) cubic feet, or more, which has an
airtight door with a lock or other fastening device which cannot be easily
released for opening from the inside of the ice box, refrigerator, or
container, without first removing the door, lock, or fastener.
§ 5-5-15 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, unless authorized so to do by the city, to
remove from any premises situated in the city or to transport through the
streets, alleys, or public places of the city any garbage or rubbish.
§ 5-5-16 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or shall allow the premises occupied to become unsanitary, or who shall
in any manner violate any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 6: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
5-6-1   Definition
   
5-6-2   Nuisance Declared; Exceptions
   
5-6-3   Administration and Supervision
   
5-6-4   Orders from Municipal Court
   
5-6-5   Notice Requirements
   
5-6-6   Issuance of Citation
   
5-6-7   Impoundment of Abandoned Vehicles
   
5-6-8   Immediate Removal of Vehicle Obstructing Traffic
   
5-6-9   Penalty
§ 5-6-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is defined to
mean any motor vehicle which is self-propelled and which is inoperable and
which does not have lawfully affixed thereto a current license plate and which
is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, or discarded and which is located
in any place where it is visible from a public place or public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 5-6-2 NUISANCE DECLARED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nuisance. Any abandoned motor vehicle is hereby declared a nuisance
and is prohibited, and is subject to abatement as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
      (2)   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
vehicle dealer or a junkyard.
§ 5-6-3 ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION.
   Administration and supervision of the removal of vehicles or parts thereof
as provided in this chapter shall be by the chief of police of the city, except
that the removal of the abandoned vehicle or part thereof declared to be a
nuisance may be by any other person duly authorized by the chief of police.
§ 5-6-4 ORDERS FROM MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The judge of the municipal court shall have authority to issue all orders
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
§ 5-6-5 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Persons Notified. Upon determining that an abandoned vehicle is
located within the city, the chief of police shall issue a notice to the
occupant of the premises where such vehicle is located. If the premises is
unoccupied, notice shall be given to the owner of such premises as determined
by county tax rolls. If neither the occupant nor owner of the premises can be
located, notice shall be posted on the premises.
   (B)   Notice Contents. The notice shall specify that the chief of police has
determined the vehicle to be in violation of this chapter and that a nuisance
exists. It shall further state that if the nuisance is not abated within ten
(10) days of receipt of notice, or a hearing is not demanded within said ten
(10) days, a citation will issue as hereinafter provided or, in the discretion
of the chief of police, the vehicle shall be impounded.
   (C)   Service of Notice. Service of notice shall be accomplished by
certified mail with return receipt requested, personal delivery, delivery to an
individual residing in the premises over the age of fifteen (15), or posting in
the event other means prove unsuccessful.
   (D)   Hearing Required. A person so notified shall have the right to request
a hearing before the municipal judge to contest the determination of the chief
of police. Such a hearing will be conducted at the next regularly scheduled
court docket after demand, but in no event sooner than five (5) days. Such
demand for hearing must be filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days of
notice or shall be deemed waived. Upon hearing, should it be determined that
the vehicle is in fact abandoned, the municipal judge shall order its abatement
within forty-eight (48) hours. Thereafter the remedies provided in this chapter
shall be authorized.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 5-6-6 ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   (A)   Authority to Issue. If, upon passage of ten (10) days, or forty-eight
(48) hours in the event of a hearing, such abandoned vehicle has not been
removed from the premises or enclosed out of public view, a police officer may
issue a citation to the occupant if occupied, or the owner if unoccupied, for
violation of this chapter in the manner set forth for issuing citations for
violations of traffic ordinances as contained in title 7 of this code.
   (B)   Separate Citation for Each Day. A separate citation may be issued for
each day such vehicle remains upon such premises after the first citation is
issued.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 5-6-7 IMPOUNDMENT OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impoundment Authority. After notice as provided in this chapter, the
chief of police or his designee may impound any abandoned vehicle or part
thereof. Such remedy shall be in addition to the right to issue a citation.
Such vehicles shall be impounded and held in accordance with provisions of
title 7, chapter 13  of this code.
   (B)   Right of Entry on Private Property. The chief of police may enter upon
private property for the purposes specified in this chapter, including the
right to enter in order to examine vehicles or parts thereof, obtain
information as to the identity of vehicles, and to impound a vehicle or parts
thereof.
   (C)   State Transportation Department. Notice shall be given by the chief of
police to the state transportation department within five (5) days of the date
of removal identifying the abandoned vehicle or part thereof.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 5-6-8 IMMEDIATE REMOVAL OF VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall affect the provisions permitting
immediate removal of a vehicle left on public property which constitutes an
obstruction to traffic.
§ 5-6-9 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who willfully violates the provisions of
this chapter pertaining to maintaining junk vehicles on private premises, and
after having been given notice to remove the same by a police officer, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues, and a citation
is issued, constitutes a separate offense.
CHAPTER 7: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
5-7-1   Transportation of Inflammable Liquids
   
5-7-2   Burning Trash
   
5-7-3   Fire Extinguishers in Business Occupancies
   
5-7-4   Storing or Keeping Explosives
§ 5-7-1 TRANSPORTATION OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to transport, to deliver,
unload or transfer at any point within the city any gasoline, kerosene or other
inflammable or combustible substance in or from a tank, tank truck, transport
or vehicle. However, such transporting, delivering, unloading or transferring
may be done with and from a tank truck if the following safety precautions are
observed:
   (A)   Driver in Attendance. The tank vehicle, during unloading or loading,
must have the driver thereof in attendance at the shutoff valve at all times
during such operation.
   (B)   Smoking Prohibited. No person shall smoke or be permitted to smoke in
the immediate vicinity of such vehicle during the unloading or transferring
operations.
   (C)   Vent Pipe for Storage Tank. No unloading or transferring from any tank
truck shall be made to any storage tank within the fire limits unless such
storage tank has above the ground level a vent pipe of at least eight feet (8')
in height.
§ 5-7-2 BURNING TRASH.
   (A)   Burning Restrictions. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to burn trash, wood, leaves, or other combustible material within
the city except at such times as the chief of the fire department, with Lincoln
County health department approval, may determine; and under such safeguards as
the chief of the fire department may prescribe.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply to the burning of any such
combustible material as a fuel in a properly constructed firebox, either within
or outside a building.
§ 5-7-3 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS IN BUSINESS OCCUPANCIES.
   (A)   Equipment Required; Inspection.
      (1)   Every person, firm or corporation owning or operating a place of
business within the city is hereby required to own, keep and maintain therein
such firefighting equipment or fire extinguishers as the chief of the fire
department may require.
      (2)   The equipment shall be inspected regularly, at least every twelve
(12) months, by inspectors designated by the chief of the fire department.
   (B)   Equipment Maintenance and Recharging; Fee. The fire department may do
any maintenance or recharging of such equipment for a fee adequate to cover the
cost of the service to the city, which fee shall be paid by the owner.
§ 5-7-4 STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Compliance with State Law. It is unlawful for any person to store or
keep or to have on their premises or in their possession within the city any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, blasting powder or any other highly explosive material
or substance without having first complied with the laws of the state regarding
sale, storage or keeping of such articles.
   (B)   Certain Places Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to keep or
store any explosive on any premises which is occupied as a dwelling, school,
theater or other place of public amusement, and any person storing explosives
for sale to the general public must comply with the general statutes of the
state in the sale and storage of the explosives.
CHAPTER 8: FIREWORKS
Section
   
5-8-1   Prohibition
   
5-8-2   Exception
§ 5-8-1 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   City Limits and Fire Limits. It is unlawful and an offense for any
person, firm or corporation to sell or have in his or its possession or to
discharge, ignite or in any manner aid, assist or abet in the discharging or
igniting any size, type or description of skyrockets, pistols, torpedoes, Roman
candles, flash salutes, flash crackers, balloons or other fireworks or
substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display, also small display
ground pieces, cones, cap pistols, cannons or other appliances using caps
containing chlorate or potash mixture within the city limits or the fire limits
established by the city council.
   (B)   Business District. The provisions of this section shall be in effect
at all times within the business district of the city.
§ 5-8-2 EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Group Activities; Permission Required. The only exception to the
provisions of section
5-8-1  of this chapter shall be when written permission is given by the city
manager to any civic, religious, business or recognized group for the
conducting of special events that are civic in nature. Permission must be given
at least three (3) days before events.
   (B)   Notice to Fire Chief. Notice must be given to the fire chief who shall
inspect the proposed site as to safety and protection of persons and property.
CHAPTER 9: METHAMPHETAMINE CONTAMINATED PROPERTIES
Section
   
5-9-1   Purpose and Scope
   
5-9-2   Report of Methamphetamine Activity
   
5-9-3   Prohibition on Occupancy
   
5-9-4   Public Notice of Contamination
   
5-9-5   Assessment and Remediation
   
5-9-6   Acceptable Levels
   
5-9-7   Cleanup and Safety Standard
   
5-9-8   Final Report
   
5-9-9   Penalty
   
5-9-10   Each Day a Separate Offense
§ 5-9-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect occupants of real property
from hazardous and contaminated living environments by requiring owners of real
property to remediate contamination of property caused by methamphetamine
manufacture, production or creation prior to occupancy pursuant to the
standards described in this chapter.
   (B)   Although other types of synthetic drugs may be manufactured in
clandestine drug laboratories, this chapter is specifically intended to
remediate the contamination and environmental dangers associated with
methamphetamine manufacturing, production, or creation.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-2 REPORT OF METHAMPHETAMINE ACTIVITY.
   Upon discovery that an owner’s property is, or has been, the location of
making methamphetamine, including, but not limited to, “cooking”,
manufacturing, concocting, producing or creating by any means whatsoever
(hereinafter collectively referred to as “methamphetamine production”), an
owner shall immediately report such activity to local law enforcement.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-3 PROHIBITION ON OCCUPANCY.
   Until a contractor experienced in hazardous waste removal and remediation,
as prescribed in this chapter, assesses the property wherein the
methamphetamine production occurred, remediates any contamination, and prepares
a final report, as prescribed in this chapter, which shows that the levels of
contamination in the property meet the acceptable levels listed in section 5-9-
6 of this chapter, use of the property for human habitation is prohibited.
Additionally, this prohibition shall apply to any mobile home relocated to
Chandler, if not owner occupied requiring the owner to provide a report as
described herein prior to occupancy.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-4 PUBLIC NOTICE OF CONTAMINATION.
   Within two (2) days of discovery of methamphetamine production, an owner
shall display on the contaminated structure(s) a notice to the public with the
following information:
   (A)   The word “WARNING” in bold type.
   (B)   The address of the contaminated property or, if the property has
multiple structures upon it, the address of each contaminated structure.
   (C)   A statement that hazardous substances, toxic chemicals, or other waste
products may be present on the property.
   (D)   A warning that any person who enters the structure(s) without
permission of the owner or law enforcement will have committed a trespass.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-5 ASSESSMENT AND REMEDIATION.
   (A)   Upon discovery that an owner’s property is, or has been, a location
for methamphetamine production, prior to occupancy of the property and after
the removal of methamphetamine production materials and equipment by law
enforcement, the property owner shall retain the services of a qualified
contractor who is experienced in hazardous waste removal and remediation to
assess the level of contamination, if any, within the property and provide a
written report documenting such level of contamination. At a minimum, in order
to be deemed qualified such contractor shall have completed forty (40) hours of
hazardous waste operation and emergency response training pursuant to 29 C.F.R.
§ 1910.120 and shall have received certification pursuant to this training. The
owner shall obtain a copy of the contractor’s 29 C.F.R. § 1910.120
certification before allowing the contractor to begin the assessment.
   (B)   If, upon the completion of the assessment, the contractor determines:
      (1)   The level of contamination does not exceed the acceptable
contamination levels, as defined in section
5-9-6 of this chapter, the owner shall then require the contractor to prepare a
final report as prescribed in section
5-9-8 of this chapter. Once the final report is prepared and delivered to the
owner, the owner shall remove the notice to the public as described in section
5-9-4 of this chapter. A copy of the final report shall be delivered to the
police chief and city manager. Upon receipt of the final report by the police
chief and city manager, the real property may be occupied.
      (2)   The level of contamination exceeds the acceptable levels as defined
in section
5-9-6 of this chapter, the owner shall not allow use of the property for human
habitation until a qualified contractor as such term is defined in subsection
(A) of this section, has: a) cleaned up, removed and remediated any
contamination from the property according to the standards of section
5-9-6 of this chapter; and b) conducted another assessment which shows that
contamination levels are acceptable pursuant to section
5-9-6 of this chapter; and c) the contractor has prepared a final report
certifying that the contamination levels are acceptable as prescribed in
section
5-9-6 of this chapter. Once the final report is prepared and delivered to the
owner, the owner shall remove the notice to the public as described in section
5-9-4 of this chapter. A copy of the final report shall be delivered to the
police chief and city manager. Upon receipt of the final report by the police
chief and city manager the real property may be occupied.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-6 ACCEPTABLE LEVELS.
   (A)   The owner shall require the certified contractor to test the levels of
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), pH, mercury, lead, and methamphetamine in
both the initial assessment and the postremediation assessment.
   (B)   Acceptable levels for each are the following:
      (1)   VOCs: 0.9 parts per million or below.
      (2)   pH: Surface level of 7 or below.
      (3)   Mercury: 0.3 micrograms per cubic meter of mercury in air or below.
      (4)   Lead: Twenty (20) micrograms per square foot or below.
      (5)   Methamphetamine: 0.1 micrograms per one hundred (100) square
centimeters or below.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-7 CLEANUP AND SAFETY STANDARD.
   Contractors hired by an owner to engage in removal and remediation shall
conduct assessments and cleanup pursuant to the relevant standards and
guidelines proposed or adopted by the Oklahoma drug enforcement agency, the
federal drug enforcement agency, the Oklahoma department of environmental
quality, and the environmental protection agency and shall follow safety
procedures mandated by the relevant federal and state agencies governing
hazardous waste.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-8 FINAL REPORT.
   (A)   All inspections and assessments conducted by a contractor during the
removal and remediation process shall be fully documented in writing. All
reports shall include the dates that activities were performed and the names,
addresses and phone numbers of the persons and/or companies that performed the
activities. The final report shall include any other types of relevant
documentation, including, but not limited to, photographs, video recordings,
drawings and charts. Such additional documentation shall likewise be signed and
dated. The owner shall immediately provide a copy of the final report to the
police chief and city manager upon receipt from the contractor.
   (B)   The final report, at a minimum, shall include:
      (1)   A case narrative, site description, and site assessment.
      (2)   Physical address of property, number and type of structures on
property, and description of adjacent and/or surrounding properties.
      (3)   Law enforcement reports, documented observation, and preremediation
sampling results that provide information regarding the manufacturing method,
chemicals present, cooking areas, chemical storage areas, and observed areas of
contamination or waste disposal.
      (4)   Name of cleanup contractor(s) and the contractor’s qualifications,
experience, and copy(ies) of any certification(s); and
      (5)   The signature of the contractor that prepared the report.
      (6)   A copy of the contractor’s 29 C.F.R. § 1910.120 certification.
   (C)   Where property is remediated, final reports shall also include:
      (1)   Worker safety and health information.
      (2)   Decontamination and encapsulation procedures for each area that was
decontaminated.
      (3)   Documentation that the structure was cleaned to acceptable levels,
including, but not limited to, the location and results of postdecontamination
samples, description of analytical methods used, and the location(s) of
laboratory(ies) used.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-9 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 5-9-10 EACH DAY A SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   Each day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense, punishable by fine and costs as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
TITLE 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
1.    POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
2.    GENERAL OFFENSES
         
3.    MINORS
         
4.    ANIMAL CONTROL
         
5.    FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
6-1-1   Police Department and Chief
   
6-1-2   Duties
   
6-1-3   Assisting Another Community
   
6-1-4   Unclaimed Property
§ 6-1-1 POLICE DEPARTMENT AND CHIEF.
   (A)   Department Created; Chief Appointed. There shall be a police
department, the head of which shall be the chief of police, appointed by the
city manager for an indefinite term, and removable by the manager.
   (B)   Duties of Chief. The chief of police shall be an officer of the city,
and shall have supervision and control of the police department.
   (C)   Additional Officers. There may be such additional police officers as
the city council may authorize. All police officers shall be officers of the
city.
§ 6-1-2 DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and
arrest on view or on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the
ordinances of the city; to suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies
which may come to their knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve
all warrants, writs, executions and other processes properly directed and
delivered to them; to apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state
law as provided by law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all
respects to perform all duties pertaining to police offices.
   (B)   City or County Jail. The police department shall have control and
operation of the city jail; however, the city council may make arrangements
with the board of county commissioners for use of the county jail for city
purposes.
§ 6-1-3 ASSISTING ANOTHER COMMUNITY.
   (A)   Approval. Approval is hereby given for service of members of the
regular police department of the city as police officers of any other city or
town, in an emergency situation, in the state not more than forty five (45)
miles distance from the city of Chandler, when such service is requested by the
mayor or chief of police of the city or town, in accordance with state law.
   (B)   Written Request. Requests for service under subsection (A) of this
section shall be made by writing or by telephone, or other means of
communication, to the city manager of Chandler, who, if he determines that the
request can be granted consistent with the continuance of the proper police
protection to the inhabitants of Chandler, shall direct the chief of police to
furnish the number of officers requested and to arrange for their
transportation to the requesting municipality.
   (C)   Reimbursement Required. Any municipality requesting and receiving
service by members of the police department of Chandler shall reimburse the
city of Chandler for the cost of the transportation to and from such
municipality of the officers so serving and the pro rata cost of their
salaries, insurance and other benefits attributable to their service in such
municipality.
   (D)   Contract for Service.
      (1)   Except in cases of extreme public emergency, no services shall be
rendered hereunder to any municipality unless such service is in accordance
with the terms of this section.
      (2)   The city manager hereby is authorized to negotiate and execute
contracts with the proper contracting officers of such municipalities, which
shall be on a reciprocal basis, thereby securing to the city of Chandler the
service of members of the police departments of such municipalities should an
emergency arise necessitating such service here.
      (3)   All such contracts shall be submitted to the city council for
approval before becoming effective.
§ 6-1-4 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Complete Record Required.
      (1)   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police
officer, which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the
possession of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a
criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto,
shall be, by the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge
of the chief of police.
      (2)   The chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found; and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
   (B)   Disposition of Unclaimed Property.
      (1)   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remains
in the possession of the chief of police, unclaimed, or the ownership of which
is not to him satisfactorily established, for a period of thirty (30) days,
shall be sold, and the proceeds of the sale shall be paid over to the city
clerk, who shall issue his receipt therefor, and deposit the same to the credit
of the general fund of the city, except such personal property as in the
opinion of the city manager can be more advantageously used by some department
or office of the city manager.
      (2)   Ten (10) days before a sale of such unclaimed property, the chief
of police shall sign and have posted in a conspicuous place in the city clerk’s
office, where it will be plainly visible to persons who visit that office,
notice of the time, place, and manner of such sale, and a general description
of the property to be sold. However, if, in the opinion of the city manager,
all or any portion of the personal property may be more advantageously used in
any city department or office, he shall so instruct the chief of police in
writing, and the chief shall thereupon deliver the personal property designated
to that department or office of the city manager and make a permanent record of
its disposition.
   (C)   Property Found by Private Person.
      (1)   Any personal property found by a person other than a public
official or employee which is delivered to any police officer for
identification, if not claimed or identified within thirty (30) days, shall,
within ten (10) additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be
returned to him and a record of such disposal made thereof.
      (2)   If the finder does not request return of the property to him within
such additional ten (10) days, then the chief of police shall sell the property
as if it had been found by a public official or employee, or, on instruction by
the city manager, deliver it to some department or office of the city
government for its use.
   (D)   Recovery by Owner. If any property is sold as herein provided, and the
owner thereof takes and recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the
amount paid therefor shall be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim
being submitted and approved by the city council.
CHAPTER 2: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
6-2-1   Adoption of State Criminal Code
   
6-2-2   Attempts to Commit Offense
   
6-2-3   Aiding in Offense
   
6-2-4   Penalty
Article A. Offenses Against the Peace, Persons
   
6-2A-1   Disturbing the Peace
   
6-2A-2   Assault and Battery
   
6-2A-3   Weapons, Firearms and BB Guns
   
6-2A-4   Loud Noise or Music Prohibited; Amplified Sound
   
6-2A-5   Political Advertising on Rights-of-Way
   
6-2A-6   Insulting Signs, Literature or Language
Article B. Offenses Against Public Decency, Morality
   
6-2B-1   Liquor and Drug Related Offenses
   
6-2B-2   Marijuana Prohibited
   
6-2B-3   Gambling
   
6-2B-4   Prostitution
   
6-2B-5   Disorderly Houses
   
6-2B-6   Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
   
6-2B-7   Sleeping on Streets, in Public Places
   
6-2B-8   Begging
   
6-2B-9   Harmful Deception
   
6-2B-10   Conduct Prohibited on or Near Schools
Article C. Offenses Against Property
   
6-2C-1   Petty Larceny
   
6-2C-2   Injuring Automobiles, Other Vehicles
   
6-2C-3   Destroying or Injuring Buildings, Other Property
   
6-2C-4   Placing Signs on Property of Another
   
6-2C-5   Throwing or Shooting Objects at Persons or Property
   
6-2C-6   Tampering with or Damaging Public Utilities
   
6-2C-7   Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
   
6-2C-8   Trespassing
   
6-2C-9   Illegal Entrance
   
6-2C-10   Throwing Handbills on Streets
   
6-2C-11   Throwing Injurious Substances
   
6-2C-12   Injury to Plants, Trees and Streets
   
6-2C-13   Parking on Property of Another
   
6-2C-14   Interference with Fire Hydrants
Article D. Offenses Against Public Authority
   
6-2D-1   Resisting an Officer
   
6-2D-2   Refusing or Failing to Assist Officer
   
6-2D-3   Assault or Battery Upon Police or Other Law Officer
   
6-2D-4   Offenses Relating to Prisoners
   
6-2D-5   Impersonating an Officer or Employee
   
6-2D-6   False Alarms
   
6-2D-7   False Representation to Officer
   
6-2D-8   Removal of Barricades
   
6-2D-9   Emergency 911 Abuse
§ 6-2-1 ADOPTION OF STATE CRIMINAL CODE.
   Misdemeanor offenses and any amendments thereto contained in the state
criminal code, 21 O.S., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference, and are enforceable by the city within the city limits as fully as
if set out at length herein.
§ 6-2-2 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against this code or the
ordinances of the city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission
of such offense, but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration
thereof, is guilty of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner
prescribed for the attempted offense itself.
§ 6-2-3 AIDING IN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
§ 6-2-4 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter 2, including articles A
through D, is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE, PERSONS
§ 6-2A-1 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another
or others by doing any of the acts set out in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Offenses Enumerated. Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the
following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of
another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of three (3) or more persons,
including being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful
act against the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving
toward such acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise; by rude, indecent or improper behavior; by
profane, improper or loud language; or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
Cross-reference:
   Loud noise, see §
6-2A-4
   Nudity, see §
6-2B-6
§ 6-2A-2 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Terms Described. For the purpose of this section, an ASSAULT is any
willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to do a corporal
hurt to another. A BATTERY is any willful and unlawful use of force or violence
upon the person of another.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the city.
§ 6-2A-3 WEAPONS, FIREARMS AND BB GUNS.
   (A)   Carrying Weapons Prohibited; Exceptions. It is unlawful for any person
to carry concealed upon or about his person any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie
knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife, spring type knife, metal knuckle, or any
other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument except when doing so in the line
of duty or as may be permitted by state law which preempts local law pursuant
to 21 O.S. § 1289.4.
   (B)   Reckless Conduct. It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless
conduct while having in his possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such
actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability
of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious
disregard for the safety of another person.
   (C)   Discharging Firearms, BB Guns Prohibited; Exceptions.
      (1)   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the city except
when doing so in the line of duty; when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, of another person, or of property; or when otherwise authorized by
law, ordinance, or the approval of the city council for a specific event and
under such regulations as the council shall impose for such specific event.
      (2)   It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the city.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-14-2015)
§ 6-2A-4 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED; AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   (A)   Emitting Loud Music, Noise or Words. It is unlawful for any person to
disturb the peace and quietude of any part of the city by operating, having
operated, or permitting to be operated, any contrivance, whether electric or
not, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music,
noise or words. However, this subsection shall not prohibit religious bodies
from playing chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music.
   (B)   Amplification Systems in Motor Vehicles.
      (1)   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street,
highway, alley, parking lot, or driveway shall operate or permit the operation
of any sound amplification system from within the vehicle so that the sound is
plainly audible at a distance of one hundred feet (100') or more from the
vehicle.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, PLAINLY AUDIBLE means any sound
produced by a sound amplification system from within the vehicle which clearly
can be heard at a distance of one hundred feet (100') or more. Measurement
standards shall be done by the auditory senses, based upon direct line of
sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and bass reverberations are
included. The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked or moving on any
street, public right-of-way, highway, alley, parking lot, or driveway.
(Ord. 1997-08, passed 10-7-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Loud noises, see §
6-2A-1 (B)(8)
§ 6-2A-5 POLITICAL ADVERTISING ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, a POLITICAL ADVERTISING
SIGN is defined as any sign, poster or placard printed, painted, made, or
designed for the purpose of furthering or advertising the candidacy of any
person who is or intends to become or may be a candidate for election to any
public office, whether such public office be in the local, state or federal
government, or any subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Public Utility Easement. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect or display any advertising sign or advertising of any
other character upon any public utility easement within the city.
   (C)   Attaching to Telephone Pole. No person, firm or corporation shall
place, tack, nail, staple or glue any advertising sign on any telephone,
telegraph, electric or streetlighting pole within the city.
   (D)   Nuisance Declared.
      (1)   Any advertising sign erected, placed or displayed in violation of
the provisions hereof shall be a public nuisance.
      (2)   No property right shall exist in such sign erected, placed or
displayed in violation of the provisions hereof, and such sign may be removed
and destroyed by any person.
§ 6-2A-6 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Sign, Flag or Device. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation within the city to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device,
which in its common acceptance is insulting, profane, or abusive to the
citizens of the city, and which is calculated, or of which the natural
consequence is, to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
   (B)   Profane Language or Literature. It is unlawful for any person to
willfully use, utter, publish, circulate or distribute any profane, violent,
abusive, or insulting language or literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY
§ 6-2B-1 LIQUOR AND DRUG RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Public Intoxication and Drinking.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this subsection (A), a STATE OF
INTOXICATION means the condition in which a person is under the influence of
any intoxicating, spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, any low point beer, or of
any narcotic, to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full
physical or mental power.
      (2)   Prohibited Acts. It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Appear or be upon or in any street, alley, or other public place
in the city in a state of intoxication.
         (b)   Drink any intoxicating liquor or low point beer upon or in any
street, alley, or other public place within the city; provided, however, the
city council of the city shall be authorized to waive this prohibition for
specific events, or types of events, upon proper application and under such
conditions as the council deem appropriate for such event, or types of events.
         (c)   Use, sell or furnish to another any illegal drug or narcotic in
any place in the city except as legally prescribed by a physician.
   (B)   Possession of Liquor; Low Point Beer.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to be in possession of any intoxicating alcoholic or low point beer while
such person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place
within the city limits.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age
of twenty-one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any low point beer except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and from which the original
cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the
rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear trunk or compartment shall include the
spare tire compartment in a station wagon or panel truck or any outside
compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other person in the
vehicle while it is in motion.
      (4)   For the purpose of this subsection (B), ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE and LOW
POINT BEER shall be as defined by this code.
   (C)   Intoxicating Liquor; Prohibited Acts. It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind except as permitted by
law;
      (2)   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating liquor or
beverage except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey
from place to place in the city any intoxicating liquor or beverage except as
permitted by law;
      (3)   To loiter in a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered,
given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      (4)   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished
in violation of law.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-8-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
title 4, chapter 2 , articles A and B
   Occupation tax, see §
4-2A-5
§ 6-2B-2 MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, MARIJUANA shall be as
defined in the “controlled dangerous substances act”, in 63 O.S. §§ 2-201 et
seq.
   (B)   Prohibited Acts. It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
      (2)   To use, have, or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business, or other public place within the city;
      (3)   To use marijuana in any place within the city, except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state;
      (4)   To be about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished illegally;
      (5)   To sell or furnish illegally to another person marijuana; or
      (6)   To use or possess drug paraphernalia, to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled dangerous
substance in violation of the uniform controlled dangerous substances act,
except those persons holding an unrevoked license in the professions of
podiatry, dentistry, medicine, nursing, optometry, osteopathy, veterinary
medicine or pharmacy.
§ 6-2B-3 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Prohibited Acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
         (a)   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         (b)   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         (c)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         (d)   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
      (2)   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to
play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representatives of value.
   (B)   Being in Vicinity of Gambling Activities. It is unlawful for any
person to be about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are
gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device,
or otherwise.
§ 6-2B-4 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing,
directing, or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of
promoting prostitution.
   (B)   Prohibited Acts. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution;
      (6)   Accept or receive the proceeds from any act of prostitution; or
      (7)   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution within the limits of the city.
§ 6-2B-5 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, a DISORDERLY HOUSE means
any structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or
decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the people therein committing
or resorting to any of the following acts:
      (1)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      (2)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the city or statutes of
the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
      (3)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or city ordinance, including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; or
      (4)   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   (B)   Maintaining or Leasing.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      (2)   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house; and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
   (C)   Residents and Visitors. No person shall knowingly reside in, enter
into, or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this
subsection, the city shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct
evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This subsection shall not
apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of their professional or
official duties.
§ 6-2B-6 NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
§ 6-2B-7 SLEEPING ON STREETS, IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Streets, Public Places. It is unlawful for any person, between the
hours of twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight and sunrise, to sleep on any street,
in any other public place, or on any property of another without the express or
tacit consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
   (B)   Schools or Public Buildings. It is unlawful for a person to sleep on
or about the premises of any public or private school or other public building,
or on or about a depot of a public carrier.
§ 6-2B-8 BEGGING.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose, or
one of whose purposes, is to aid persons in need.
§ 6-2B-9 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
§ 6-2B-10 CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR SCHOOLS.
   No person shall engage in any conduct or commit any of the acts enumerated
herein around or on the grounds of any school in the city, or in any street or
alley adjacent to a school:
   (A)   Any conduct that disturbs the orderly conduct of the school;
   (B)   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   (C)   Lewd or wanton conduct; or
   (D)   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school or in any
street or alley adjacent thereto in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school.
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 6-2C-1 PETTY LARCENY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, PETTY LARCENY is the
taking of personal property of value not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to deprive another
thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property from the “person”
of another.
   (B)   Unlawful Act. Petty larceny is unlawful. Any person who commits
larceny shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 6-2C-2 INJURING AUTOMOBILES, OTHER VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, or loiter in any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
§ 6-2C-3 DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS, OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use.
§ 6-2C-4 PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill, placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other
property of another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
§ 6-2C-5 THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely
to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot
any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric
light or other property of another (whether public or private), except in case
where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property.
§ 6-2C-6 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water, electricity or cable and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly
or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to consume or use the
gas, water, cable or electricity without it passing through the meter or any
other way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person
to damage, molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or
other part of any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system.
§ 6-2C-7 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the city without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the city, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
§ 6-2C-8 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
      TRESPASS. Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. TRESPASS
shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in
lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or
the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of
the premises. TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such as authorized by the owner or by a person
in lawful possession of such premises; provided, that the provisions of this
sentence shall not apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon
such premises. TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to
private property before the posted time of opening for business operation on
the next business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under
the terms of this section.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private
property.
§ 6-2C-9 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure
is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or
otherwise or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
§ 6-2C-10 THROWING HANDBILLS ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter. For provision
prohibiting placing signs on property of another without consent, etc., see
section
6-2C-4 of this article.
§ 6-2C-11 THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive
or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine,
with intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal.
§ 6-2C-12 INJURY TO PLANTS, TREES AND STREETS.
   (A)   Plants and Trees in Park. It is unlawful for any person to willfully
and without authority cut, pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers,
flowering plants, shrubs or trees growing in or around any park or public
street within the city, or willfully or without authority to tear down, remove,
cut or otherwise injure or destroy any gate or fence enclosing any such park or
grounds, or willfully injure or destroy any stand, bench, seat or other
property situated upon such park or ground.
   (B)   Public Streets and Trees.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree
or sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the city;
         (b)   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or
any wire to any live tree;
         (c)   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue
or alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under
the supervision or control of the city;
         (d)   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the city; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; and
         (e)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the city inspector so to do.
      (2)   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done
under the supervision of the street superintendent or city engineer.
§ 6-2C-13 PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object, on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge, or
otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
Cross-reference:
   Illegal trespass by vehicle, see §
7-13-9
§ 6-2C-14 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Interference. It is unlawful for any person except one duly authorized
by the city utility personnel or a member of the fire department to open, turn
on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything
with, any fire hydrant or stopcock belonging to the city.
   (B)   Obstructing Access. It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access
to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other
thing, or in any other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
§ 6-2D-1 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION OF. Shall, in addition to its common meaning, include:
         (a)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
         (b)   Any violence toward, or any resistance or opposition to, the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he is under arrest; or
         (c)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his
identity known to the arresting officer.
      RESISTING AN OFFICER. The intentional opposition or resistance to or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity and authorized by
law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   (B)   Prohibited Acts. It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully
to:
      (1)   Resist, oppose, obstruct, assault, or in any way interfere with the
chief of police, any police officer, the municipal judge, any other officer or
employee of the city, or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his official duties
within the limits of the city;
      (2)   Warn or signal another so as to assist such other person to flee,
escape or evade an officer seeking to make an arrest, or for any person to bar
or lock any door or barrier in the face of or in front of an approaching
officer;
      (3)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
      (4)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive
or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties.
§ 6-2D-2 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   (A)   Authority to Request Assistance. An officer of the city making or
about to make an arrest, or executing or about to execute a warrant or other
process, in accordance with the ordinances of the city or with state or federal
law, or suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly,
may call upon a person or persons to assist him in making such arrest,
executing such process or suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   Refusal to Assist. It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon
thus to assist an officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so.
§ 6-2D-3 ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, without justifiable or excusable cause, to
knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and battery upon the person of
a police officer or other officer of the law while in the performance of his
duties.
§ 6-2D-4 OFFENSES RELATING TO PRISONERS.
   (A)   Rescuing Prisoners. It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal
manner, to set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or
prisoners, from any officer or employee of the city having legal custody of the
same or from a place of confinement by the city, or to assist such prisoner in
any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
   (B)   Escape of Prisoner. It is unlawful for any person confined by the
city, or working upon the streets or other public places of the city in
pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by authority of
the city, to escape or attempt to escape from any jail, prison or custody.
§ 6-2D-5 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so.
§ 6-2D-6 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or police
department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the fire
department or police department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
§ 6-2D-7 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly:
   (A)   To make any material misrepresentation to any officer, employee or
agency of the city government in any official application to, or official
dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or
   (B)   To commit perjury before any tribunal or officer of the city.
§ 6-2D-8 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
§ 6-2D-9 EMERGENCY 911 ABUSE.
   It is unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to call the number 911 for the purpose of making a
knowingly false alarm or complaint, or report knowingly false information which
could result in the dispatch of emergency services from the city or its agents
or employees. Any person violating the provisions of this section, upon
conviction, shall be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and by an assessment for the resulting costs of any
dispatching of emergency personnel and equipment for each such offense; or
   (B)   For any person who owns a telephone or who is charged line or rent
charges from the telephone utility to use the 911 number for nonemergency calls
or to allow minor children to use the 911 number for nonemergency purposes.
Upon the third such infraction, such person shall be notified by certified
mail, restricted delivery, of the infraction and thereafter shall be guilty of
an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 3: MINORS
Section
Article A. Curfew
   
6-3A-1   Definitions
   
6-3A-2   Hours of Restriction; Exceptions
   
6-3A-3   Proprietors of Public Places
   
6-3A-4   Parental Responsibility
   
6-3A-5   Special Events; Custody of Minors
Article B. Tobacco Products; Minors
   
6-3B-1   Definitions
   
6-3B-2   Furnishing or Sale of Tobacco Products to Minors
   
6-3B-3   Receipt of Tobacco Products by Minors
   
6-3B-4   Distribution of Tobacco Product Samples
   
6-3B-5   Sale of Tobacco Products Except in Original, Sealed Package
   
6-3B-6   Public Access to Displayed Tobacco Products
   
6-3B-7   Report of Violations and Compliance Checks
ARTICLE A. CURFEW
§ 6-3A-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of twenty-one (21) years who is in loco
parentis to a minor.
   GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted
to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above.
§ 6-3A-2 HOURS OF RESTRICTION; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll or play in any public
place on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in any vehicle in,
about or upon any public place in the city between the hours of eleven o’clock
(11:00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. Sunday through Thursday and between
the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. Friday
through Saturday, unless:
   (A)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
   (B)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or
   (C)   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by some
legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
§ 6-3A-3 PROPRIETORS OF PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place to knowingly permit, or suffer the presence of,
minors between the hours of curfew designated in section
6-3A-2 of this article.
§ 6-3A-4 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian or
other adult person having custody or control of any minor to suffer or permit,
or by inefficient control to allow, such person to be on any public place
within the city between the hours of curfew designated in section
6-3A-2  of this article.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply if:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      (3)   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the city police department.
§ 6-3A-5 SPECIAL EVENTS; CUSTODY OF MINORS.
   (A)   Notice and Registration of Special Events. The city council may
permit, by resolution or motion, procedures for advance notice or registration
with the city of special events or functions sponsored by churches, schools,
clubs or other organizations which require minors to be out at a later time.
   (B)   Taking Minors into Custody. The city council may also prescribe the
procedures for taking into custody minors found in violation of this article.
ARTICLE B. TOBACCO PRODUCTS; MINORS
§ 6-3B-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIGARETTE. Any product that contains nicotine, is intended to be burned or
heated under ordinary conditions of use, and consists of or contains:
      (1)   Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not
containing tobacco,
      (2)   Tobacco, in any form, that is functional in the product, which,
because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filter, or its
packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers
as a CIGARETTE described in this definition.
      The term CIGARETTE includes ROLL YOUR OWN (i.e., any tobacco which,
because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling is suitable for use and
likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making
cigarettes). For the purpose of this definition, nine one-hundredths (0.09) of
an ounce of ROLL YOUR OWN tobacco shall constitute one individual CIGARETTE.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver’s license or other government
issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s license or other government issued photo identification.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 6-3B-2 FURNISHING OR SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS.
   (A)   Providing Tobacco Products to Minors. It is unlawful for any person to
sell, give, or furnish in any manner any tobacco product to another person who
is under eighteen (18) years of age or to purchase in any manner a tobacco
product on behalf of any such person. It shall not be unlawful for an employee
under eighteen (18) years of age to handle tobacco products when required in
the performance of the employee’s duties.
   (B)   Proof of Age. Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of
tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under eighteen (18) years of age. If an
individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products has demanded
and was shown proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient who is not
under eighteen (18) years of age, the failure to subsequently require proof of
age shall not constitute a violation of this subsection.
   (C)   Defenses. Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably
relied upon proof of age shall be a defense to prosecution under subsection (A)
or (B) of this section. A person cited for violation of this section shall be
deemed to have reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not
be found guilty of such violation, if such person proves that:
      (1)   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
presented a driver’s license or other government issued photo identification
purporting to establish that such individual was eighteen (18) years of age or
older; and
      (2)   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver’s license or other government issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
      (3)   Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this section if such person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver’s license or other government issued photo
identification was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of
the defense described in this subsection does not affect the availability of
any other defense under any other provision of law.
   (D)   Violation; Fine. When a person is convicted or enters a plea and
receives a continued sentence for a violation of subsection (A) or (B) of this
section, the total of any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      (2)   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense within a two
(2) year period following the first offense; and
      (3)   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third or subsequent offense
within a two (2) year period following the first offense.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 6-3B-3 RECEIPT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under eighteen (18) years of age
to purchase, receive, or have in his or her possession a tobacco product, or to
present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false or
fraudulent for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product. It
shall not be unlawful for an employee under age eighteen (18) years of age to
handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the employee’s
duties.
   (B)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsection (A) of this section, the total of any
fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense; and
      (2)   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second or subsequent offense
within a one year period following the first offense.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 6-3B-4 DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT SAMPLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to distribute tobacco products or
product samples to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   (B)   No person shall distribute tobacco product samples in or on any public
street, sidewalk, or park that is within three hundred feet (300') of any
playground, school, or other facility when the facility is being used primarily
by persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   (C)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsection (A) or (B) of this section, the total of
any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      (2)   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense; and
      (3)   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third or subsequent
offense.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 6-3B-5 SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the
original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   (B)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 6-3B-6 PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products in any manner that allows public access to the tobacco
product without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or an
employee or the owner of the store. The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to retail stores which do not admit into the store persons under eighteen
(18) years of age.
   (B)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 6-3B-7 REPORT OF VIOLATIONS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   Any conviction for a violation of this article and any compliance
checks conducted by the police department pursuant to subsection (B) of this
section shall be reported in writing to the alcoholic beverage laws enforcement
(ABLE) commission within thirty (30) days of the conviction or compliance
check. Such reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE
commission. Convictions shall be reported by the court administrator/court
clerk or his designee and compliance checks shall be reported by the chief of
police or his designee.
   (B)   Persons under eighteen (18) years of age may be enlisted by the police
department to assist in enforcement of this article pursuant to the rules of
the ABLE commission.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 2-12-2013)
CHAPTER 4: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
6-4-1   Definitions
   
6-4-2   Dog and Cat Vaccination, Tags and Tax
   
6-4-3   Animals Running at Large
   
6-4-4   Turning Animals at Large Unlawful
   
6-4-5   Pasturing in Public Areas Illegal
   
6-4-6   Swine Prohibited; Exceptions
   
6-4-7   Animals Disturbing the Peace; Noise
   
6-4-8   Animal Housing and Sanitation Requirements
   
6-4-9   Health Officer, Chief of Police, or Designee to Inspect
   
6-4-10   Location Restricted by Zoning Regulations
   
6-4-11   Vicious or Dangerous Animal May Be Killed
   
6-4-12   Cruelty to Animals
   
6-4-13   Impoundment, Redemption and Disposal Procedures; Fees
   
6-4-14   Rabies Control; Quarantine of Animals
   
6-4-15   Exotic Animals
   
6-4-16   Penalty
Article A. Pet Shops, Kennels and Catteries
   
6-4A-1   License Required; Fee
   
6-4A-2   License Regulations
   
6-4A-3   Revocation of License
   
6-4A-4   License Suspension, Hearings Related to Suspension
§ 6-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, rooster, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
   CONFINED ON THE PREMISES. That condition in which an animal is securely and
physically confined and restrained on and within the premises of the owner by
means of walls, fences, rope, chain, leash, or other device of such strength
and size as to physically prevent the animal from leaving the premises, and to
physically prevent the animal from causing physical injury to the persons or
other animals which are off the premises on which the confined animal is
located.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that, without provocation, has chased or
approached in either a menacing fashion or in an apparent attitude of attack,
or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any person or other animal while
the animal alleged to be dangerous is off the premises of the owner or while
the animal is not physically restrained or confined on the premises. DANGEROUS
ANIMAL does not include a police dog while the police dog is being used to
assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their duty.
   DISEASED ANIMAL. An animal believed to be infected with a dangerous or
communicable disease.
   MENACING FASHION. An animal that would cause any person observing the animal
to reasonably believe that the animal will cause physical injury to persons or
other animals.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring, or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns for a period of ten (10) days or
more, shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
   PROVOKED or PROVOCATION. That an animal was teased, tormented, enticed,
abused, or otherwise encouraged to violence. It does not include an animal that
was protecting its owner or owner’s property from criminal activity by a
perpetrator of a crime.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal that, without provocation, has killed or caused
physical injury to any person or has killed or caused physical injury to
another animal. VICIOUS ANIMAL does not include a police dog while the police
dog is being used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of
their official duties and where any injury inflicted by the police dog was
reasonably related to the duties being performed.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 6-4-2 DOG AND CAT VACCINATION, TAGS AND TAX.
   (A)   Vaccination of Dogs and Cats.
      (1)   The owner of a dog or cat shall have the dog or cat vaccinated
against rabies by a veterinarian or other authorized person every calendar year
before May 1 thereof, or, in the case of a pup or kitten, before it is six (6)
months old.
      (2)   The person vaccinating the dog or cat shall furnish the owner a
certificate of vaccination.
   (B)   Tax Imposed; Registration; Tag.
      (1)   Fees Imposed. License fees for dogs or cats more than six (6)
months of age shall be levied upon the owners of any such dogs or cats kept or
harbored within the City in such amounts as established by the City’s fee
schedule.
      (2)   Exceptions. The tax levied in this section shall not apply to a dog
or cat only temporarily brought and kept within the City, nor to a dog or cat
brought within the City to participate in a dog or cat show, nor to a “seeing
eye” or “hearing” dog when such a dog is actually being used by a blind or deaf
person to aid such person in going from place to place, nor to dogs or cats
being kept in kennels or pet shops for sale.
      (3)   Payment Times; Proration of Fee.
         (a)   The owner shall pay the tax levied to the City Clerk for every
calendar year at the following times:
            1.   Before May 1 of each calendar year; or
            2.   If the dog or cat is acquired or brought into the City after
May 1, or becomes six (6) months of age after May 1, within thirty (30) days
after acquiring or bringing the dog or cat into the City or its becoming six
(6) months of age.
         (b)   The fee for part of the year shall be prorated based on the
number of days left in the year, but in no instance shall the fee be less than
one-half (1/2) of the annual rate.
      (4)   Certificate of Vaccination Required. Before the City Clerk accepts
any money offered in payment of the tax for a dog or cat, or issues a license
for such dog or cat, the person offering the tax shall present to the City
Clerk the certificate of a veterinarian or other person legally authorized to
immunize dogs or cats, showing that the dog or cat has been immunized against
rabies during the calendar year, that is, since the preceding December 31.
      (5)   Registration. The owner of the dog or cat shall, at the time of
paying the tax, register the dog or cat by giving the City Clerk the name and
address of the owner; the name, breed, color and sex of the dog or cat; and
such other reasonable information as the City Clerk may request.
      (6)   Issue Receipt, Tag. The City Clerk thereupon shall deliver an
original receipt to the taxpayer and also an appropriate tag to him for the dog
or cat. Such tag shall constitute a license for the dog or cat.
   (C)   Tag Placed on Collar; Lost Tags.
      (1)   Affixing Tag to Collar. The owner shall cause the tag received from
the City Clerk to be affixed to the collar of the dog or cat upon which the tax
has been paid so that the tag can easily be seen by officers of the City. The
owner shall see that the tag is so worn by the dog or cat at all times.
      (2)   Lost Tag; Fee. In case the tag is lost before the end of the year
for which it was issued, the owner may secure another for the dog or cat by
applying to the City Clerk, presenting to him the original receipt, and paying
to him a fee as established by the City’s fee schedule.
   (D)   Counterfeiting Tags; Placing on Other Dogs. No person shall
counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued for a dog or cat as
provided in this chapter, or take from any dog or cat a tag legally placed upon
it, or place such tag upon a dog or cat for which the tag was not specifically
issued.
§ 6-4-3 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Cat Restrictions. Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, licensed
cats which are not vicious and which wear a tag as provided by ordinance, may
be at large; but it is unlawful for any owner to permit a licensed cat without
a tag as required by ordinance, an unlicensed cat, a vicious cat or a female
cat during the breeding and mating period, to be at large, or for any such cat
to be at large.
   (B)   Other Animals. No other animal may be permitted at large within the
City.
   (C)   Vicious, Dangerous and Diseased Animals Prohibited. The keeping of
vicious, dangerous or diseased animals within the City is hereby declared
unlawful, except as may be permitted in this chapter. Violations will be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1  of this Code.
   (D)   Penalty. Violations of this section are punishable as established by
the City’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 6-4-4 TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn the animal at large, or in any
manner to turn the animal at large.
§ 6-4-5 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS ILLEGAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, Federal, State, City or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, or on any property without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property.
§ 6-4-6 SWINE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep swine within the City, except in an
enclosure awaiting immediate transportation, or as specified by the
agricultural zoning regulations of the City Zoning Code.
§ 6-4-7 ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE; NOISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the City any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of any person.
§ 6-4-8 ANIMAL HOUSING AND SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Buildings for Animals; Construction and Conditions.
      (1)   Construction of Stables; Sanitation. Every stable or building
wherein any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, goat, sheep or animal raised for
furbearing purposes shall be kept within the City shall be constructed of such
material and in such manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all
times.
      (2)   Manure Receptacles.
         (a)   Every such stable or building, if located within two hundred
feet (200') of any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding
house, retail food store, building used for educational, religious, or hospital
purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the
premises upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight
and flytight receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations
of manure.
         (b)   The receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such
manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept
covered at all times, except when open during the deposit or removal of manure
or refuse.
         (c)   No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except
in the receptacle.
   (B)   Location of Stables, Kennels, Coops.
      (1)   No kennel, cattery or pet shop may be kept in any residence
district or in any other district or area of the City, except in a district
specifically zoned for kennels.
      (2)   No stable, dog kennel, chicken coop, dovecote, rabbit warren, yard
or other establishment wherein animals are kept shall be maintained closer than
forty feet (40') to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant,
boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational, religious or
hospital purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or
occupant of the premises upon which the animals are kept.
   (C)   Cleanliness of Premises; Rodent Control. Every structure, pen, lot or
place wherein an animal is kept or permitted to be shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from
objectionable odors.
   (D)   Disposal of Manure. Manure shall be hauled outside the City in a
manner which does not jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread
evenly upon the ground and turned under at once or as soon as the weather
permits.
§ 6-4-9 HEALTH OFFICER, CHIEF OF POLICE, OR DESIGNEE TO INSPECT.
   The Health Officer, Chief of Police, or designee thereof, upon complaint of
any person, shall inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept, and
may do so on his own initiative. The Health Officer, Chief of Police, or
designee thereof may issue any reasonable order as he may deem necessary to the
owner of the animal to cause the animal to be kept as provided in this chapter
or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. The Health Officer, Chief of
Police, or designee may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any
person for a violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such
reasonable order, but this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to
make such complaint.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 10-1-2002)
§ 6-4-10 LOCATION RESTRICTED BY ZONING REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to allow or permit any fowl, including, but
not limited to, chickens, pigeons and other like fowl, or any domestic animal,
including, but not limited to, horses, mules, donkeys, cows, sheep or goats,
except as fixed by the City’s zoning ordinance.
§ 6-4-11 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL MAY BE KILLED.
   A person may kill a vicious or dangerous animal in self-defense or in
defense of another when the animal, without due provocation, bites him or the
other person, or attacks or attempts to bite or attack him or the other person
in such a manner that an ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that
the person toward whom the efforts of the animal are directed is about to be
bitten or otherwise physically harmed. The animal must be at large.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 6-4-12 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person willfully and
maliciously to pour on, or apply to, an animal any drug or other thing which
inflicts pain on the animal; or knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner; or knowingly to neglect an animal belonging to him or in his
custody in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (B)   Poisoning Animals. It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any
dog or other animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or knowingly to
expose poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
   (C)   Encouraging Animal Fights. It is unlawful for any person to instigate
or encourage a fight between animals; or to encourage one animal to attack,
pursue or annoy another animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or to
keep a house, pit or other place used for fights between animals.
§ 6-4-13 IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL PROCEDURES; FEES.
   (A)   Summons and Complaint.
      (1)   Any person who witnesses or has personal knowledge that an act or
acts made unlawful by this chapter have been committed may sign a complaint
against the alleged violator.
      (2)   Any police officer, animal welfare officer or Code Enforcement
Officer who is employed by the City is authorized to issue a summons and
complaint when said officer personally observes a violation of this chapter.
      (3)   The complainant must provide a sworn complaint to the officer
receiving the complaint containing the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the complainant and other
witnesses to the incident.
         (b)   Date, time and location of the incident.
         (c)   Description of the animal.
         (d)   Name, address and telephone number (if known) of the animal
owner.
         (e)   A statement that the animal attacked the complainant, some other
person, or an animal as witnessed by the complainant, or such other facts as
warrant a finding that the animal is vicious, dangerous or diseased.
         (f)   Any other relevant facts and circumstances of the incident.
   (B)   Impoundment. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or his
designee, the animal control officer, or such other City employee as may be
designated by the City Manager, upon receipt of a verified complaint as
outlined in subsection (A) of this section, to cause the animal involved to be
impounded pending a determination as required by this chapter. Any and all
expenses associated with the impounding including shelter, food, handling and
veterinary care shall be borne by the owner of such animal during the period of
impoundment.
   (C)   Hearing. The Municipal Judge, in addition to any hearings which may be
required on criminal charges, shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days of the
date of impoundment to determine if the animal is “vicious”, “dangerous” or
“diseased”, as defined by section
6-4-1  of this chapter. Said hearing may be held in conjunction with any
criminal proceedings if so ordered by the Judge, but in no event shall this
delay the hearing on determination of viciousness, dangerousness, or being
diseased.
   (D)   Determination. The Municipal Judge shall be empowered to make one of
the following determinations as a result of said hearing:
      (1)   That the animal is in fact not vicious, dangerous or diseased, in
which event the animal control officer shall cause it to be surrendered to the
owner of the animal, upon payment by the owner of the expenses outlined in
subsection (B) of this section, and upon compliance with section
6-4-2 of this chapter.
      (2)   That the animal is in fact vicious, dangerous or diseased, and
should be euthanized.
      (3)   That the animal is vicious, dangerous or diseased, but that for
good cause shown, the animal should not be euthanized, in which event the Judge
shall order one of the following:
         (a)   That the animal be immediately removed from the corporate limits
of the City and not to ever be again allowed within the corporate limits of the
City, and that the owner pay all fees required by subsection (B) of this
section. In the event the owner fails to pay such expenses, the animal will be
euthanized within forty eight (48) hours of the Judge’s decision unless
extended by order of the court at the time of the hearing.
         (b)   That the owner be allowed to maintain the animal within the
corporate limits of the City under the following conditions:
            1.   Payment of fees: Payment of all fees required by subsection
(B) of this section and compliance with section
6-4-2 of this chapter. In the event the owner fails to pay such expenses, the
animal will be euthanized within forty eight (48) hours of the Judge’s decision
unless extended by order of the court at the time of the hearing.
            2.   Leash and muzzle: No person shall permit an animal covered by
this subsection (D)(3) to go outside its kennel or pen unless such animal is
securely leashed with a leash no longer than four feet (4') in length. No
person shall permit said animal to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of
leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person is in physical control of the
leash. Such animal may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees,
posts, building, etc. In addition, all animals on a leash outside the animal’s
kennel must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such animal
from biting persons or other animals.
            3.   Confinement: All animals covered by this subsection (D)(3)
shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
kennel, except when leashed and muzzled as above provided. Such pen, kennel or
structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All
structures used to confine said animals must be locked with a key or
combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structure
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the
sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet (2'). All
structures erected to house said animals must comply with all zoning and
building regulations of the City. All such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
            4.   Confinement indoors: No animal covered by this subsection (D)
(3) may be kept on a porch, patio, or in any part of a house or structure that
would allow the animal to exit such building on its own volition. In addition,
no such animal may be kept in a house or structure when the windows are open or
when screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the animal
from exiting the structure.
            5.   Signs: All owners, keepers or harborers of animals covered by
this subsection (D)(3) within the City shall display in a prominent place on
their premises a sign easily readable by the public using the words “BEWARE OF
VICIOUS ANIMAL”. In addition, a similar sign is required to be posted on the
kennel or pen of such animal.
   (E)   Appeal. All owners whose animal is adjudged to be vicious or dangerous
or diseased at the hearing and sentence is imposed by the Municipal Judge
pursuant to this section, upon written demand, may appeal the Judge’s decision
within ten (10) days to the District Court of the county where a trial in the
District Court shall be accorded them de novo.
   (F)   Impoundment of Nonvicious, Nondangerous, or Nondiseased Animals.
      (1)   The animal control officer, a police officer, or such other officer
or employee of the City as may be authorized shall take into custody and
impound any animal running at large in violation of any provision of the
ordinances of the City.
      (2)   Any other person may take such animal into custody and present it
to the authority in charge of the animal shelter for impounding.
      (3)   Animals taken into custody as provided in this chapter may be sold,
adopted or destroyed in a humane manner by the officer or employee of the City
in charge of such animal, or by the animal control officer after a full three
(3) days or seventy-two (72) hours have elapsed since taking the animal into
custody; provided, the animal is not redeemed or claimed as provided in this
chapter. A description of all animals impounded shall be kept. For animals
which have a tag or a known owner, the City shall attempt orally or in writing
to notify the owner shown according to City license records, of the impoundment
and possible destruction, adoption or sale.
   (G)   Breaking Animal Shelter. No unauthorized person shall:
      (1)   Break or attempt to break open the animal shelter or take or let
out any animal therefrom;
      (2)   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the City
any animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter; or
      (3)   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in
the discharge of his duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding
of animals as provided in this chapter.
   (H)   Fees for Impounding.
      (1)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, shall determine the fees
to be charged for impounding and keeping animals. In computing the fee, a
fraction of a day during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a full
day.
      (2)   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required
fees to the City Clerk and present his receipt therefor to the person in charge
of the animal shelter before the latter releases the animal.
      (3)   Any person redeeming a dog or cat not licensed as required by
section
6-4-2 of this chapter shall pay the required License Tax to the City Clerk and
secure a tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag to the person in
charge of the animal shelter before the latter releases the dog or cat. If a
dog or cat has been licensed but is not wearing the tag, the person in charge
of the animal shelter shall require adequate evidence of the proper licensing
of the dog or cat before releasing it.
      (4)   Any person wishing to adopt an animal shall pay all fees required
to be paid by a person redeeming an impounded animal, including License Tax
and, in addition, shall be required to comply with all local, County and State
regulations concerning adoption of impounded animals, specifically the
requirement for dog and cat sterilization pursuant to 4 O.S. §§ 499 et seq.
   (I)   Redemption by Owner. An owner of an impounded animal or his agent may
redeem the animal prior to its sale or destruction, as provided for herein, by
paying the required fees against the animal and meeting any other requirements
which may be prescribed in this chapter. However, when in the judgment of the
animal control officer an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such
animal may not be redeemed.
   (J)   Sale of Impounded Nonvicious, Nondangerous, or Nondiseased Animals.
      (1)   Notice Required.
         (a)   As soon as practicable after impoundment of any nonvicious,
nondangerous, or nondiseased animal (see subsection (F)(3) of this section),
the animal control officer, or other employee or officer impounding the animal,
shall have posted a notice thereof at the police office of the City.
         (b)   The notice shall describe the animal and notify the owner to pay
the charges thereon and remove the same prior to a designated time.
         (c)   The notice shall also state that, unless the animal is redeemed
within forty eight (48) hours after taking the animal into custody, the animal
will be sold or destroyed.
      (2)   Cash Sales; Other Disposition. Sales herein provided for shall be
for cash and shall be conducted by, or under the direction of, the Chief of
Police. If an impounded animal cannot be sold, he shall destroy the animal, or
have it destroyed, in a humane manner, or otherwise dispose of it in a legal
manner.
      (3)   Acquire Title. The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as
provided herein shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
      (4)   Money to City Clerk. The Police Department shall pay to the City
Clerk all money received from the sale of impounded animals on the day it is
received or on the next day upon which the Office of the City Clerk is open for
business.
   (K)   Owner Claim Excess Money. The owner of an impounded animal sold as
provided herein may claim the excess of the sale price of the animal above the
fees for impounding and keeping the same and a fee, as established by the
City’s fee schedule, to reimburse the City for any expense it has had in making
the sale, at any time within three (3) months after the sale. If a claim is so
made and approved by the City Council, the City Clerk shall pay him such
excess. If a claim is not made, the excess shall belong to the City.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 6-4-14 RABIES CONTROL; QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Rabid Animals.
      (1)   Any dog or other animal suspected of being rabid or of having been
bitten by a rabid animal may be confined by order of the Health Officer, Chief
of Police or his designee to determine whether the animal is rabid.
      (2)   If a person has been bitten or if there is good reason to believe
that a person has been otherwise infected by such animal, the Health Officer,
Chief of Police or his designee may have the animal put to death in a humane
manner and have it examined by medical authority to determine whether it has
rabies.
   (B)   Quarantine of Animals for Observation.
      (1)   The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person shall be promptly furnished to the Animal Control Officer, the Health
Officer, Chief of Police or his designee and the County Health Department.
      (2)   The animal control officer shall securely quarantine such animal
for a period of ten (10) days and shall not release such quarantined animal
until reasonable determination has been made that animal is not infected with
rabies.
      (3)   At the discretion of the animal control officer, such quarantine
may be on the premises of the owner, at a veterinary hospital of the owner’s
choice at the owner’s expense, or at the City animal shelter.
      (4)   In case of animals whose ownership is unknown, such quarantine
shall be at the City animal shelter.
      (5)   The animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies
and such owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement.
   (C)   Securing Support Information on Diagnosed Animals. When an animal
under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid or is suspected of having
rabies by a licensed veterinarian and dies while under such observation, the
Animal Control Officer, veterinarian, the Health Officer, Chief of Police or
his designee, or other designated emissary shall immediately send the necessary
part of such animal to the State Health Department for pathological examination
and shall notify the proper Public Health Officer of any reports of human
contact.
   (D)   Rabies Crisis Declaration.
      (1)   When a report gives a suspected or a positive diagnosis of rabies,
or when the City, County or State health officials feel that a rabies crisis
may be imminent, the health officials may recommend to the City Manager a
Citywide quarantine, and upon the invoking of such quarantine by the City
Council, by resolution, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted
to be in the streets, except for short periods of exercise under leash and
control of a competent adult.
      (2)   During the quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the
City without written permission of the animal control officer.
      (3)   This declaration must be made by notice in a generally circulated
newspaper of the community and will last as long as health officials determine
the situation requires such action.
   (E)   Surrender of Animals under Suspect.
      (1)   No person shall remove from the City any animal suspected of having
been exposed to rabies, or any animal which has bitten a human, except as
herein provided.
      (2)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be
surrendered to the animal control officer upon demand, and the animal control
officer shall direct disposition of the animal.
      (3)   No person shall refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or
destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the animal control officer.
§ 6-4-15 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Keeping of Exotic Animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
and maintain within the City limits any venomous and/or dangerous animals,
including, but not limited to, snakes longer than fifteen feet (15') or over
forty (40) pounds, bears, cougars, African lions, leopards, tigers, or any
large, nondomestic cat over twenty-five (25) pounds, wolves or wolf hybrids,
coyotes or coyote hybrids, or any other wild, dangerous or undomesticated
animal which is not of a species customarily used as an ordinary household pet,
but one which would ordinarily be confined to a zoo or one which would
ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any other country or one which
otherwise causes a reasonable person to be fearful of bodily harm or property
damage.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to licensed pet shops,
zoological gardens, exotic animal shows or sales and circuses if:
      (1)   They are otherwise authorized by State and Federal law to possess
said exotic animals;
      (2)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the City zoning
ordinance;
      (3)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and are so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors;
      (4)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape; and
      (5)   No person lives or resides within one hundred feet (100') of the
quarters in which the animals are kept.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 6-4-16 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any ordinance or provision of
this chapter, or who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out any
reasonable order made by the Health Officer, Chief of Police or his designee
pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined or
imprisoned as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The penalty provided for herein shall be in addition to
other remedies of the City and aggrieved persons and shall not be construed as
exclusive.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 9-6-2005)
ARTICLE A. PET SHOPS, KENNELS AND CATTERIES
§ 6-4A-1 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person, firm or corporation, either as principal or agent, shall own,
operate, lease, or permit to be operated upon premises owned, leased or
occupied by such person, firm or corporation a pet shop, kennel or cattery
without first obtaining from the city clerk a license to operate the same. The
license shall be known as a “kennel license”, but shall apply equally to pet
shops and catteries. The annual fee for a kennel license shall be fixed by the
city council by resolution.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 10-1-2002)
§ 6-4A-2 LICENSE REGULATIONS.
   All kennel license holders shall:
   (A)   Maintain Records. Maintain records and retain such records for a two
(2) year period on all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records
shall show breed, color, markings, sex and age; date and source of animal;
period for which animal is maintained; date and disposition of animal,
including name and address of new owner; disease prevention or treatment and by
whom.
   (B)   Environmental Conditions. Provide general environment conditions to
assure adequate physical space for each animal, to control parasites, provide
clean food and water, weather protection and clean and sanitary facilities.
   (C)   Sanitation of Cages and Pens. Provide cages and pens of easily
cleanable materials if used for confinement and shall keep such cages and pens
clean and sanitary at all times.
   (D)   Avoid Nuisance Conditions. Operate the pet shop, cattery or kennel in
such a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (E)   Payment of Annual Fee. Pay on or before December 31 of each year the
kennel license fee, which shall be prorated on the first issuance only. The
full annual fee shall thereafter be paid regardless of renewal date and shall
not be prorated upon cessation of the business.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 10-1-2002)
§ 6-4A-3 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A kennel license may be revoked or conditions placed upon its continued
issuance upon any of the following occurrences:
   (A)   Not Allowing Inspection. Failure of the license holder to permit
inspection as provided in section 6-4-9 of this title.
   (B)   Nonpayment of Annual Fee. Failure of the license holder to pay the
annual fee for said license.
   (C)   Creating Nuisance. Operating the kennel, pet shop or cattery in such a
manner as to create a nuisance.
   (D)   Violating Zoning Regulations. Operating the kennel, pet shop or
cattery at a location not properly zoned for the same, or in violation of
zoning regulations.
   (E)   Noncompliance with Regulations. Failure of the license holder to
otherwise operate said kennel, pet shop or cattery in full compliance with this
code.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 10-1-2002)
§ 6-4A-4 LICENSE SUSPENSION, HEARINGS RELATED TO SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Cease and Desist Order; Hearing; Procedure.
      (1)   The health officer, the chief of police, or his designee are
authorized to issue a cease and desist order to a kennel license holder stating
specifically any grounds believed by him to constitute a violation of this
article.
      (2)   Upon failure to timely correct the conditions leading to the cease
and desist order as determined in the sole discretion of the health officer,
chief of police, or his designee, the matter of the continued licensure shall
be set for hearing before the board of adjustment.
      (3)   The city as well as the licensee shall have a right to review
before the city council.
      (4)   The council is authorized to decline suspension of the license,
conditionally continue the license upon terms and conditions as it deems
necessary, suspend the license for a specified term, or permanently revoke the
same.
      (5)   The decision of the city council shall be final.
   (B)   Authority of City Officers; Emergency Situation. Nothing contained
herein shall be construed to limit the right of any authorized officer of the
city to take immediate steps to bring about cessation of a health hazard or
public nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 10-1-2002)
CHAPTER 5: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
6-5-1   Purposes
   
6-5-2   Acts Prohibited; Application of Chapter
   
6-5-3   Sale or Rental of Housing
   
6-5-4   Financing of Housing
   
6-5-5   Brokerage Services
   
6-5-6   Exemptions
   
6-5-7   Fair Housing Board; Administration
   
6-5-8   Complaint Procedure
   
6-5-9   Notice Requirements
   
6-5-10   Appeal Procedure
   
6-5-11   Investigation; Subpoenas; Evidence
   
6-5-12   Enforcement by Private Persons
   
6-5-13   Interference, Coercion or Intimidation
   
6-5-14   Prevention of Intimidation in Cases
   
6-5-15   Penalty
§ 6-5-1 PURPOSES.
   The general purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   (B)   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare.
§ 6-5-2 ACTS PROHIBITED; APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Application to Dwellings. Subject to the provisions of subsection (B)
of this section and section
6-5-6  of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in section
6-5-3  of this chapter shall apply to all dwellings, except as exempted by
subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Exceptions. Nothing in section
6-5-4  of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner if such private
individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-family houses at
any one time. In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one sale
within any twenty-four (24) month period. Such bona fide private individual
owner does not own any interest in nor is there owned or reserved on his
behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to, all
or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three (3)
such single-family houses at any one time. The sale or rental of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only
if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesman, or person; or
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of section
6-5-3 of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistants as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; and
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters at his residence.
   (C)   Business of Selling or Renting Dwellings. For the purposes of
subsection (B) of this section, a person shall be deemed to be in the business
of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; and
      (3)   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families.
§ 6-5-3 SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by section
6-5-2 of this chapter, and except as exempted by sections
6-5-2 and
6-5-6 of this chapter, it is unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap, or familial status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial
status, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available; or
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representatives regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, gender, color,
religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial status.
§ 6-5-4 FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It is unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age,
handicap or familial status of such person or of any person associated with him
in connection of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
in relation to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given. Nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in section 6-5-2 of this chapter and
subsection (B) thereof.
§ 6-5-5 BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It is unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple listing service, real estate broker’s organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate
against him in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or
participation, on account of race, gender, color, religion, national origin,
age, handicap or familial status.
§ 6-5-6 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
§ 6-5-7 FAIR HOUSING BOARD; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Board Created; Terms. There is hereby created a fair housing board of
the city, (hereafter referred to as “board”), composed of five (5) members, to
be appointed by the city council, for terms of three (3) years. Of the members
first appointed under this chapter, two (2) shall be appointed for a term of
two (2) years, and one shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years.
   (B)   Duties. It is the duty of the fair housing board to:
      (1)   Initiate, receive, and investigate complaints charging unlawful
housing practices;
      (2)   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings
of fact, and publish its findings of fact;
      (3)   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary within the
limits of this chapter, and carry out the purposes and provisions of this
chapter; and
      (4)   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the fair housing
board shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will
further the purposes of this chapter. The chairman may call conferences of
persons in the housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them
with the provisions of this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it,
and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
   (C)   Administration and Enforcement.
      (1)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter
shall be in the fair housing board of the city.
      (2)   The fair housing board may delegate any of these functions, duties,
and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including
functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating,
hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to
any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The fair housing board shall
by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his hearing
examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the city, to
boards of officers or to itself as shall be appropriate and in accordance with
law.
§ 6-5-8 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Filing of Complaint; Investigation; Resolution.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a discriminatory practice prohibited by
this chapter may file with the fair housing board a complaint in writing, under
oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be aggrieved, and
shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have violated the
provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the particulars of the
violation, and may include such other information as may be required by the
board.
      (2)   Complaints filed under this section must be filed within thirty
(30) days after the alleged violation, and failure to file within the time
shall be considered a waiver of the application of this chapter.
      (3)   The board may issue a complaint on its own initiative, at any time
it is within the knowledge of the board that a person has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Investigation.
      (1)   The board shall investigate each complaint filed with the board,
and shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of conference and
conciliation.
      (2)   Sixty (60) days shall be allowed for the purpose of investigation,
conference and conciliation.
      (3)   Upon determination that a complaint is not well founded, the board
shall dismiss the complaint and notify the complainant and respondent in
writing of the dismissal.
      (4)   If it appears that the complaint might have merit, the complainants
shall be advised of their rights under existing state and federal laws.
   (C)   Response Required; Hearing. If conference or conciliation does not
result in compliance with this chapter, the board shall cause to be issued and
served in the name of the city a written notice, together with a copy of the
complaint, requiring the person named in the complaint, hereinafter referred to
as “respondent” to answer charges of the complaint at a hearing before the
board at a time and place to be specified in the notice.
   (D)   Conducting Hearing; Findings.
      (1)   At the hearing provided for in subsection (C) of this section, the
complaint shall be heard by the board. At the hearing, the complainant or
person aggrieved may appear in person or by counsel, and the respondent may
file a written answer to the complaint and may appear in person or by legal
counsel.
      (2)   The board, when conducting any hearing pursuant to this section,
may permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony taken at
the hearing shall be under oath, and shall be transcribed at the request of
either party, or at the direction of the board, the party requesting the
transcription to be responsible for the costs thereof.
      (3)   If the board finds at the hearing that the respondent has engaged
in any discriminatory practice or practices prohibited by this chapter, it
shall state its findings of fact, and shall so certify the matter to the city
attorney for appropriate action.
      (4)   No prosecution shall be brought under this chapter except upon such
certification.
   (E)   Findings of Fact; Rules and Regulations. If the board, upon hearing,
finds that respondent has not engaged in any discriminatory practice, it shall
state its findings of fact, and shall issue and file an order dismissing the
complaint. The board shall establish rules and regulations to govern and
expedite and effectuate the foregoing procedure, and shall maintain the files
provided for herein.
§ 6-5-9 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Any and all notices required under the provisions of this chapter to be
served upon any person may be served personally on such person or by mailing a
copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, to
the most current business or residence address of such person.
§ 6-5-10 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Filing of Appeal; Notice. An appeal from any action, decision, ruling,
judgment or order of the fair housing board may be taken by any person or
persons, jointly or severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department,
board or bureau of the city to the district court by filing notice of appeal
with the city clerk and with the fair housing board within ten (10) days from
the filing of the decision of the fair housing board, which notice shall
specify the ground of such appeal. Upon filing of the notice of appeal as
herein provided, the fair housing board shall forthwith transmit to the court
clerk of the district court the original or certified copy of all the papers
constituting the record in the case, together with the order, decision or
ruling of the fair housing board.
   (B)   Appeal to District Court; Decision. An appeal to the district court
from the fair housing board stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the chairman of the fair housing board, from which the
appeal is taken, certified to the court clerk, after the notice of appeal shall
have been filed, that the alleged discriminatory practice may cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the district
court upon application or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the
enforcement of the terms and provisions of this chapter, and upon notice to the
chairman of the fair housing board for which the appeal is taken, and upon due
cause being shown, the district court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or modify the decision brought up for review.
   (C)   Administration of Programs, Activities. All executive departments and
agencies shall administer their programs and activities relating to housing and
urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the fair housing board to further such
purposes.
   (D)   Filing of Complaint; Investigation; Information Confidential.
      (1)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the fair housing board. Complaints shall
be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the
fair housing board requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the fair housing
board shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who allegedly
committed or are about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice.
      (2)   Within thirty (30) days after receiving a complaint, the fair
housing board shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the
person aggrieved whether it intends to resolve the complaint. If the fair
housing board decides to resolve the complaint, it shall proceed to try to
eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal
methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion.
      (3)   Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may
be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of
the fair housing board who shall make public any information in violation of
this provision shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Time Limit for Filing; Answer by Respondent.
      (1)   A complaint under subsection
6-5-8(A) of this chapter shall be filed within one hundred eighty (180) days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time.
      (2)   A respondent may file an answer to the complaint against him and
with the leave of the fair housing board, which shall be granted whenever it
would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer at any time.
      (3)   Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (F)   Filing Complaint with Department of Housing and Urban Development. If,
within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the fair housing board,
the fair housing board has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this
chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, file a
complaint with the secretary of the department of housing and urban
development. The fair housing board will assist in this filing.
   (G)   Civil Action.
      (1)   If the fair housing board has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may,
within thirty (30) days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate
court, against the respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the
subject of the complaint.
      (2)   If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   (H)   Burden of Proof. In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section,
the burden of proof shall be on the complainant.
   (I)   Trial; Voluntary Compliance Terminated. Whenever an action filed by an
individual shall come to trial, the fair housing board shall immediately
terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
   (J)   Limited to Certain Complaints. The application of this section and
sections
6-5-11  through
6-5-14  of this chapter are limited to complaints evolving from use of federal
aid funds for housing purposes in the city.
§ 6-5-11 INVESTIGATION; SUBPOENAS; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Investigation; Access to Records.
      (1)   In conducting an investigation, the fair housing board shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigations.
The fair housing board shall first comply with the provisions of the fourth
amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures.
      (2)   The fair housing board may issue subpoenas to compel his access to
or the production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may
issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued
or served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place.
      (3)   The fair housing board may administer oaths.
   (B)   Respondent; Subpoenas. Upon written application to the fair housing
board, a respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by and in the name of the fair housing board to the same extent and
subject to the same limitations as subpoenas issued by the fair housing board
itself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their
face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were
issued at his request.
   (C)   Witnesses.
      (1)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the fair housing board shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts.
      (2)   Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   (D)   Petition to Revoke or Modify Petition.
      (1)   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person,
such person may petition the fair housing board to revoke or modify the
subpoena.
      (2)   The fair housing board shall grant the petition if it finds that
the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or
place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any
matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   Refusal to Obey Subpoena. In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a
subpoena, the fair housing board or other person at whose request it was issued
may petition for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the
district in which the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was
served, or transacts business.
   (F)   Failure to Testify or Produce Documents.
      (1)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or
to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other
evidence, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the fair housing board shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      (2)   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the fair housing
board, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in
any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the fair housing
board pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or
fail to make or cause to be made full, true, and correct entries in such
reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate,
alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   (G)   City Attorney, Litigation. The city attorney shall conduct all
litigation in which the fair housing board participates as a party or as amicus
pursuant to this chapter.
§ 6-5-12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Civil Action. The rights granted by sections
6-5-3  through
6-5-5  of this chapter may be enforced by civil action in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred.
The court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section from
time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes that the
conciliation efforts of the fair housing board are likely to result in
satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in
the complaint made to the fair housing board and which practice forms the basis
for the action in court.
   (B)   Actions Prior to Court Order. Any sale, encumbrance, or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant
without actual notice of the existence or the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
§ 6-5-13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It is unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person
in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of, his having exercised or
enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged, any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by sections
6-5-3 through
6-5-5 of this chapter.
§ 6-5-14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN CASES.
   Any person who, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat
of force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with any of the following, may be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, gender, color, religion, national
origin, age, handicap or familial status, and because he is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; and
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, gender,
color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial status in any of
the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection
(A) of this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, gender, color,
religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection (A)
of this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate.
§ 6-5-15 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute an offense for any person to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter, and any person found guilty of violating any
provision is guilty of any offense, and is subject, upon conviction, to
punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that an act or omission is continued shall
constitute a violation of this chapter, and be construed as a separate offense.
TITLE 7: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
      Chapter
         
1.    TRAFFIC CODE; DEFINITIONS; PENALTY
         
2.    ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
3.    DRIVING, OVERTAKING AND PASSING; MISCELLANEOUS RULES
         
4.    TURNING MOVEMENTS
         
5.    STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS REGULATED; TRUCK ROUTES
         
6.    TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
         
7.    PARKING REGULATIONS
         
8.    LOADING REGULATIONS
         
9.    VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, CONDITION
         
10.    PEDESTRIANS
         
11.    MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS
         
12.    BICYCLES
         
13.    VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
CHAPTER 1: TRAFFIC CODE; DEFINITIONS; PENALTY
Section
   
7-1-1   Citation of Title
   
7-1-2   Adoption of State Traffic Code
   
7-1-3   Traffic Code Controlling
   
7-1-4   Definitions
   
7-1-5   Obedience to Traffic Code
   
7-1-6   Penalty
§ 7-1-1 CITATION OF TITLE.
   This title and all amendments hereto may be cited or referred to as the
TRAFFIC CODE, CITY OF CHANDLER, and may so appear upon all official documents,
records or instruments.
§ 7-1-2 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
and particularly the rules of the road, 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq., are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the city
within the city limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
§ 7-1-3 TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING.
   Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this title, the
traffic code shall be controlling, and apply to the use of city streets,
alleys, thoroughfares, parks, parkways, public parking lots, school driveways,
streets, parking lots, or any other public right-of-way or municipally owned
land, by pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind whether self-propelled or
otherwise and whether moving or at rest.
§ 7-1-4 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words and terms used in this title shall be the same as
those definitions in 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq., as may be amended from time to
time.
§ 7-1-5 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   Committing Unlawful Act. It is an offense against the city for any
person to do any act forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this
chapter.
   (B)   Parental Responsibility. It is an offense against the city for the
parent of any child or for the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Allowing Unlawful Use of Vehicle. It is an offense for any person to
authorize or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his or her name to
be driven or to stand or to be parked in violation of any of the provisions of
this title.
§ 7-1-6 PENALTY.
   Every person violating any of the provisions of this title containing the
traffic laws of the city shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 2: ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
7-2-1   Enforcement of Traffic Laws
   
7-2-2   Directing Traffic
   
7-2-3   Obedience to Police and Fire Officials
   
7-2-4   Emergency and Experimental Regulations
   
7-2-5   Push Carts; Animals and Animal Drawn Vehicles
   
7-2-6   Coasters, Roller Skates and Similar Devices
   
7-2-7   Public Officers and Employees Obey Traffic Regulations
   
7-2-8   Persons Working on Streets, Exceptions
   
7-2-9   Maintenance and Construction Zones
   
7-2-10   Authorized Emergency Vehicles
   
7-2-11   Following Fire Apparatus; Crossing Hose
   
7-2-12   Driver and Vehicle Licenses
   
7-2-13   Insurance; Security Verification Required
   
7-2-14   Accidents; Duty to Stop; Leaving Scene
   
7-2-15   Eluding Police Officer
   
7-2-16   Railroad Trains Blocking Streets
   
7-2-17   Seat Belts and Child Passenger Restraints
   
7-2-18   Traffic Citations
§ 7-2-1 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   It is the duty of the officers of the police department or any officers that
are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic laws of the
city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the city.
Officers of the department shall make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents, and cooperate with other officers in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the department
by this title and any other traffic ordinances of the city.
§ 7-2-2 DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Hand or Voice.
      (1)   Officers of the police department or any officers designated by the
chief of police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
      (2)   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity.
   (B)   Unauthorized Persons. No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt
to direct traffic, except in case of emergency where no officer is present.
§ 7-2-3 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official.
§ 7-2-4 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   City Authority. The city manager, subject to any directions which the
city council may give by motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of the traffic
ordinances of the city and to make temporary or experimental regulations to
cover emergencies or special conditions. No such temporary or experimental
regulation shall remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
   (B)   Testing Traffic Control Devices. The city manager may have traffic
control devices tested under actual conditions of traffic.
§ 7-2-5 PUSH CARTS; ANIMALS AND ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
§ 7-2-6 COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   Riding Restricted. No person upon roller skates, skateboards or riding
in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon
any roadway, except while crossing a street on a crosswalk, and when so
crossing, such person shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians.
   (B)   Exception; Play Streets. This section shall not apply upon any street
while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinances of the city.
§ 7-2-7 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application of Provisions. The provisions of this title shall apply to
the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States
government, any state, county, city, or governmental unit or agency, as well as
to other vehicles. It is unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by
state statute.
   (B)   Exception. This title shall not apply to the military forces of the
United States and organizations of the national guard when performing any
military duty.
§ 7-2-8 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS, EXCEPTIONS.
   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except
those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not
apply to persons, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles, and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance, or repair of
public utilities. All street or highway and public utility operations shall be
protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices, or flag persons. The
provisions of this title shall apply to any of the persons and vehicles
exempted by this section when traveling to and from such work.
§ 7-2-9 MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Authority to Close Street.
      (1)   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving, or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the city clerk, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction.
      (2)   In exercising this authority, the appropriate personnel, contractor
or utility company shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices
and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   Driving Through Area Prohibited; Exceptions.
      (1)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection (A) of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area.
      (2)   The provisions of this subsection (B) shall not apply to persons
entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or property.
      (3)   Persons having their places of residence or places of business
within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at
their own risk.
   (C)   Traffic Control Devices Required.
      (1)   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or
utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor, or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic control devices to warn and guide the public.
      (2)   Every person using the street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flag persons, or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control, and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area.
§ 7-2-10 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Driver and Vehicle Privileges.
      (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law or ordinance or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions stated in this section.
      (2)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm:
         (a)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is
not endangered; or
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specific directions.
      (3)   The exemptions granted in this section to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of
audible and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (B)   Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Emergency Vehicles.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      (2)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
§ 7-2-11 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; CROSSING HOSE.
   (A)   Following Fire Apparatus. The driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
   (B)   Crossing Fire Hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a fire department used at any fire or alarm of fire without the consent
of the fire department official in command.
§ 7-2-12 DRIVER AND VEHICLE LICENSES.
   (A)   Possession of Valid License Required.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways without
having in his possession at all times when operating such motor vehicle, a
valid operator’s or chauffeur’s license, as required by the laws of the state,
unless such person is specifically exempted from such laws by the provisions
thereof. No person charged with violating this section shall be convicted if he
produces in court an operator’s or chauffeur’s license issued to him and valid
at the time of his arrest.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation
of any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued to him
with respect to the type of, or special mechanical control devices required on,
a motor vehicle, or any other restriction applicable to the licensee as the
state may determine.
   (B)   Operation on Invalid License Prohibited. No person shall operate a
motor vehicle when his privilege to do so is cancelled, suspended, revoked or
denied. Any person convicted of violating this subsection shall be punished by
a fine as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each act of driving on the
streets or highways as prohibited by this subsection shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   State Vehicle License Required. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of
any kind upon a street of the city without a state vehicle license as may be
required by law or to fail to display the state vehicle license as may be
required by law.
   (D)   Permitting Unauthorized Person to Drive. No person shall authorize or
knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or under his control to be driven
upon any highway by any person who is not authorized under the provisions of
the laws of the state to operate such vehicle.
§ 7-2-13 INSURANCE; SECURITY VERIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state, as found in 47
O.S. Article VI, Chapter 7 and 47 O.S. § 7-606.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance which
shall insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him
by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor
vehicle not owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in
an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in subsection (c) of this definition, using an
insured vehicle with the express or implied permission of the named insured,
against loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204.
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the state board for
property and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   (B)   Security Verification Carried in Vehicle. The owner of a motor vehicle
registered in this state, and operating the vehicle within the city’s
boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all times a current owner’s security
verification form listing the vehicle, or an equivalent form which has been
issued by the state department of public safety, which shall be produced by any
driver thereof upon request for inspection by any law enforcement officer and,
in case of a collision, the form shall be shown upon request to any person
affected by the collision.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or
operator’s security verification form, or an equivalent form from the state
department of public safety, during operation of the vehicle and shall not be
required to surrender such form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the state department of public
safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the interstate commerce commission, or the Oklahoma corporation commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   (D)   Operator to Carry Security Verification. Every operator of a motor
vehicle registered in this state shall, while operating or using such vehicle
within the city’s boundaries, carry either an operator’s or an owner’s security
verification form issued by a carrier, provided the operator is not excluded
from coverage thereon; or an equivalent form issued by the state department of
public safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   (E)   Failure to Produce Verification Form. An owner or operator who fails
to produce for inspection a valid and current security verification form, or
equivalent form which has been issued by the state department of public safety,
upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1  of this code.
   (F)   Suspended Sentence. A sentence imposed for any violation of this
section may be suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (G)   Dismissal of Charge. Any person producing proof in court that a
current security verification form, or equivalent form which has been issued by
the state department of public safety, reflecting this liability coverage for
such person was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled
to dismissal of such charge.
   (H)   Action of Court; Provide Abstract to State. Upon conviction, bond
forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court clerk shall forward an abstract
to the state department of public safety within ten (10) days reflecting the
action taken by the court.
§ 7-2-14 ACCIDENTS; DUTY TO STOP; LEAVING SCENE.
   (A)   Duty to Stop. The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or
property shall immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or
as close thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident
until he has given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle, and
shall, upon request, exhibit his driver’s license to the person injured or the
driver or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and
shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons
to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is
apparent that this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the
injured person. Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more
than is necessary.
   (B)   Report Accident to Police Department. The driver of a vehicle which is
in any manner involved in an accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of
any person or in which it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the
property is in excess of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as
practicable, report such accident to a police officer or to the police
department. If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
office of the police department as soon as practicable after the accident,
which report is to be forwarded to the state department of public safety in
accordance with state law, unless settlement of the collision has been made
within six (6) months after the date of the accident, the driver shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   (C)   Failure to Stop; Penalty. Any person failing to stop or to comply with
any of the requirements of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code.
§ 7-2-15 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER.
   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible
signal directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall willfully
increase his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to
or actually elude such law enforcement officer. A VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL, for
the purpose of this section, means a red light or a siren from a law
enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to
be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car.
§ 7-2-16 RAILROAD TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS.
   It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad
train to direct the operation of, or to operate, the same in such a manner as
to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than five (5) minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to
trains or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching. This section
shall not apply in case of engine failure or train accidents within the city
limits.
§ 7-2-17 SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS.
   (A)   Seat Belts Required.
      (1)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated
in the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt
system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured
pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 571.208. For the purpose of this section, PASSENGER CAR
shall mean VEHICLE as defined in 47 O.S. § 1102. PASSENGER CAR shall include
the passenger compartment of pickups, vans, minivans, and sport utility
vehicles. PASSENGER CARS shall not include trucks, truck tractors, recreational
vehicles, motorcycles, or motorized bicycles. PASSENGER CAR shall not include a
vehicle used primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant
to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 1134.
      (2)   This subsection shall not apply to:
         (a)   Any person who possesses a written verification from a physician
licensed in this state that the person is unable to wear a safety seat belt
system for medical reasons. Provided, the issuance of such verification by a
physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall such physician
thereby incur any liability whatsoever, in damages or otherwise, to any person
injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt system.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle
while performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
      (3)   Any person convicted of violating this subsection shall be punished
up to the maximum allowed by state law, plus court costs.
   (B)   Child Passenger Restraints Required.
      (1)   Every driver, when transporting a child under four (4) years of age
weighing sixty (60) pounds or less in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways,
streets, or highways of the city, shall provide for the protection of said
child by properly using a child passenger restraint system. For the purpose of
this subsection, CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child
passenger restraint system which meets the federal standards as set by 49
C.F.R. § 571.213.
      (2)   Children at least four (4) years of age but younger than thirteen
(13) years of age shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint
system or a seat belt.
      (3)   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to:
         (a)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         (b)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         (c)   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in
use; or
         (d)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are
unable to be placed in such devices.
      (4)   Any person convicted of violating subsection (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section shall be punished up to the maximum allowed by state law, plus
court costs. This fine shall be suspended in the case of the first offense upon
proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system.
§ 7-2-18 TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   (A)   Issuance of Citation.
      (1)   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering citations to violators or, in
cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of this
title, by affixing such citations to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citations, among other things, shall bear briefly the
charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct the
violator to present the citation at the police station or other designated
place within five (5) days or such other reasonable time as may be specified
thereon.
      (2)   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to abridge the power
of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
      (3)   The city manager may require that the police officers use citations
furnished by the finance department and that such citations are serially
numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citations.
   (B)   Failure to Obey Citation. It is unlawful and an offense for any person
to violate his written promise to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance
of a traffic citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which
citation was originally issued.
   (C)   Failure to Comply with Parking Citation. If a violator of the
restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the traffic laws or
ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation affixed to such
motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of the municipal
court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation
was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and warning him that in the
event such letter is disregarded for a period of five (5) days, a warrant of
arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or more such traffic
citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations
have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the
letter provided in this subsection.
   (D)   Presumption in Reference to Illegal Parking.
      (1)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
      (2)   The presumption in subsection (D)(1) of this section shall apply
only when the procedure as prescribed in this section has been followed.
   (E)   Illegal Cancellation of Traffic Citations. It is unlawful for any
person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any
manner other than is provided by this section.
   (F)   Disposition and Records of Citations, Warrants, Complaints.
      (1)   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of the city, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the municipal court.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court,
the citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
      (3)   The chief of police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued
by the municipal court which are delivered to the police department for
service, and of the final disposition of the warrants.
      (4)   No member of the police department or other officer or public
employee shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy
thereof, or the record of, the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation,
complaint, or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this section.
   (G)   Court Records; Abstract Sent to State.
      (1)   The municipal judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court in reference thereto, including, but not limited
to, a record of every conviction, forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal,
and the amount of fine or forfeiture.
      (2)   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of
a person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court’s record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
      (3)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state
department of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the registration
number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing,
the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine
or forfeiture.
CHAPTER 3: DRIVING, OVERTAKING AND PASSING; MISCELLANEOUS RULES
Section
   
7-3-1   Speed Regulations
   
7-3-2   Changing Lanes; Marked Lanes
   
7-3-3   Overtaking and Passing Vehicles
   
7-3-4   One-Way Roadways and Rotary Traffic Islands
   
7-3-5   Following Too Closely
   
7-3-6   No Passing Zones
   
7-3-7   Funeral and Other Processions; Parades
   
7-3-8   School Buses and School Zones
   
7-3-9   Driving on Sidewalks, Through Safety Zones
   
7-3-10   Entering and Leaving Controlled Access Highways
   
7-3-11   Backing Vehicle
   
7-3-12   Starting Parked Vehicle
   
7-3-13   Clinging to Vehicles
   
7-3-14   Opening and Closing Vehicle Doors
   
7-3-15   Obstructing Driver’s View or Driving Mechanism
   
7-3-16   Boarding or Alighting from Vehicles
   
7-3-17   Unlawful Riding
   
7-3-18   Reckless Driving
   
7-3-19   Careless or Negligent Driving
   
7-3-20   Driving in Careful and Prudent Manner
   
7-3-21   Driving under Influence of Drugs
   
7-3-22   Driving under Influence of Alcohol
   
7-3-23   Attention to Driving Required
   
7-3-24   Private Service Drives
   
7-3-25   Entering Highway from Private Road or Driveway
   
7-3-26   Entering Traffic from Parking
   
7-3-27   Emerging from Alley, Driveway or Building
   
7-3-28   Stop When Traffic Obstructed
   
7-3-29   Railroad Crossings
   
7-3-30   Texting and Driving
§ 7-3-1 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Speed Limits Generally; Exceptions.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than twenty-five (25)
miles per hour upon any street or highway within the city, except:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this
title;
         (b)   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted;
or
         (c)   When a different speed limit is established in this title.
      (2)   The city council, by motion or resolution, may reduce or increase
the speed limits provided in this title, and when it does so, appropriate signs
shall be placed on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or
higher speed limit.
   (B)   School Zones. No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than the
miles per hour posted, between the hours posted, on any street adjacent to any
school in a designated school zone on days when school is in session, unless a
different speed limit or time is otherwise designated and posted.
   (C)   Speed Reasonable or Prudent for Existing Conditions. No person shall
drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or prudent under
the condition then existing, taking into consideration, among other things, the
condition of the vehicle, the traffic, roadway surface or width, the amount of
light or darkness, the presence of pedestrians in or near the roadways, and the
obstruction of view. No person shall drive any vehicle at a speed greater than
will permit him to bring such vehicle to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (D)   Minimum Speed Requirements; Exceptions. No vehicle shall be driven at
such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to the effective maximum speed
allowed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere with the normal movement of
other traffic except when the slow speed is unavoidable.
   (E)   Obedience to Maximum and Minimum Speed Limits. Where official signs
and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum speed limits in effect on
any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in excess of the maximum, nor
slower than the minimum, except as required by an authorized officer or in
obedience to posted official signs.
   (F)   Speed Contests Prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall engage in, aid or abet any motor vehicle speed
contest or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall, for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or highway, in any
manner, obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
highway.
      (3)   When three (3) or more persons assemble to witness or participate
in an unlawful speed contest, such assembly is an unlawful assembly, and any
person who participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense.
§ 7-3-2 CHANGING LANES; MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Marked Traffic Lanes. Whenever any roadway has been divided into two
(2) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, in addition to all other rules
consistent with this subsection, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practical entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from the lane
until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety and has signaled for a change of course.
   (B)   Unmarked Traffic Lanes. Where streets or roadways do not have marked
traffic lanes, vehicles shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight
course as nearly as practical and shall not weave in and out or turn from side
to side unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as
necessary in slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow moving
vehicles or making a proper approach for a turn, and this only after the driver
has first ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signaled
for a change of course.
   (C)   Three Lane Roadways. Upon a roadway which has been divided into three
(3) lanes, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and
such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation
for a left turn, or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively
to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted
to give notice of such allocation.
   (D)   Slow Moving Traffic. Official signs may be erected directing slow
moving traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used
by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway. Drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
§ 7-3-3 OVERTAKING AND PASSING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Driving on Right Side Required; Exceptions.
      (1)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven to
the right of the center of the roadway, except as follows:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction under the rules governing such movement;
         (b)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while
under construction or repair;
         (c)   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic
under the rules applicable thereon; and
         (d)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
      (2)   All vehicles shall keep to the right roadway on all streets or
highways which are divided into two (2) roadways.
      (3)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (B)   When Overtaking on Right Permitted.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         (b)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; or
         (c)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway.
   (C)   Overtaking on Left.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the street or roadway until safely clear
of the overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (D)   Limitations on Overtaking on Left; Exceptions.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
street or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every instance, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of
the roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
      (2)   No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the
street or highway where the driver’s view along the street or highway is
obstructed; or
         (b)   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge,
viaduct or tunnel or when approaching within fifty feet (50') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
   (E)   Passing Vehicle Proceeding in Opposite Direction. Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right. Upon
roadways having a width for not more than one line of traffic in each
direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) the main
traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
§ 7-3-4 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   City Designation. City personnel, subject to any directions given by
the city council by motion or resolution, may designate any road, street,
alley, or highway, or any separate roadway under their jurisdiction for one-way
traffic and shall cause appropriate signs giving notice thereof, to be erected.
   (B)   Signposting Required. Whenever the city manager designates any street
or alley or part thereof as a one-way street or alley, the city manager shall
have placed and maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulation
shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the
direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (C)   Compliance with Signs. Upon those streets and parts of streets and in
those alleys and parts of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys,
vehicular traffic shall move only in the direction indicated when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (D)   Driving in Designated Direction. Upon roadways designated and
signposted for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction
designated.
   (E)   Rotary Traffic Islands. A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic
island shall be driven only to the right of such island.
§ 7-3-5 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such vehicle
and the traffic upon, and the condition of, the highway.
§ 7-3-6 NO PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   Authority to Determine. The state department of transportation, as
regards state and federal highways, and the city manager, as regards all other
streets, are hereby authorized to determine those portions of any highway where
overtaking and passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by
appropriate signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of
such zones. When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Compliance with Signs, Markings. Where signs or markings are in place
to define a no passing zone, as set forth in subsection (A) of this section, no
driver shall at any time drive to the left side of the roadway within the no
passing zone, or on the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark the
no passing zone, throughout its length.
§ 7-3-7 FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS; PARADES.
   (A)   Driving Through Processions Prohibited; Exceptions.
      (1)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising
a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
   (B)   Drivers in Procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.
   (C)   Funeral Procession Identified. A funeral composed of a procession of
vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle of such identifying insignia as may be determined and designated by the
police department.
   (D)   Permit Required for Certain Parades, Processions. No funeral,
procession, or parade containing two hundred (200) or more persons or fifty
(50) or more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States and the
military forces of this state, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any
street, except in accordance with a permit issued by the chief of police, and
such other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply.
§ 7-3-8 SCHOOL BUSES AND SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   Overtaking and Passing in School Zones.
      (1)   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in
motion and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the
hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and four o’clock (4:00) P.M. on all days
when schools are in session.
      (2)   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple lane street which
is divided into three (3) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the
right half of the roadway has been divided into two (2) or more lanes, or on
one-way streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement.
   (B)   Overtaking and Passing School Bus.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, shall stop his vehicle before it reaches the school
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for
the safety of such school children and other occupants.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle when passing a school bus shall use due
caution for the safety of school children and other occupants of the school
bus.
      (3)   Prospective occupants of the school bus shall have the right-of-way
when crossing the roadway immediately upon approaching or leaving the school
bus.
   (C)   School Bus Requirements; Lights, Signs.
      (1)   The provisions of subsection (B) of this section shall be
applicable only if the school bus is painted yellow and bears upon the front
and rear thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words “SCHOOL BUS” in
letters not less than eight inches (8") in height which can be removed or
covered when the vehicle is not in use as a school bus.
      (2)   The school bus shall be equipped with four (4) red alternately
flashing warning signal lights, two (2) of which shall be located high on the
front and two (2) high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a
minimum of four inches (4") in diameter and shall be widely separated.
§ 7-3-9 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS, THROUGH SAFETY ZONES.
   (A)   Sidewalks. No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any
sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   Safety Zone. No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within
a safety zone or island.
§ 7-3-10 ENTERING AND LEAVING CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
§ 7-3-11 BACKING VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with any other traffic.
No vehicle shall be backed into an intersection.
§ 7-3-12 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
§ 7-3-13 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, skateboard, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon a
roadway.
§ 7-3-14 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
§ 7-3-15 OBSTRUCTING DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to
interfere with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
§ 7-3-16 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
§ 7-3-17 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any such vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, nor to persons
riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
§ 7-3-18 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum as established by the city,
including costs.
§ 7-3-19 CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be
parked, or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a
manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property, or as to interfere with
the lawful movement of traffic or use of the streets.
§ 7-3-20 DRIVING IN CAREFUL AND PRUDENT MANNER.
   Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way shall drive the same in
a careful and prudent manner and at a careful and prudent speed not greater
than nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface, and width of the public way and any other conditions then existing.
§ 7-3-21 DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF DRUGS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall drive, operate, or be in actual physical
control of any motor vehicle upon any highway who is under the influence of any
substances included in the uniform controlled dangerous substance act (63 O.S.
§§ 2-101 et seq.). The fact that any person charged with a violation of this
provision is or has been lawfully entitled to use such controlled substance
shall not constitute a defense.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code.
§ 7-3-22 DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence
of intoxicating drugs or liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical
control of any motor vehicle in the city.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who operates a motor vehicle while his ability to
operate such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code.
   (C)   Evidence Shown by Tests. Upon the trial of any criminal action or
proceeding arising out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person
while driving or in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol or intoxicating liquor, or operating a motor vehicle while
his ability is impaired by the consumption of alcohol, evidence of the amount
of alcohol in the person’s blood as shown by a chemical analysis of his blood
or breath is admissible. For the purpose of this section:
      (1)   Evidence that there was five-hundredths of one percent (0.05%) or
less by weight of alcohol in his blood is prima facie evidence that the person
was not under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating liquor;
      (2)   Evidence that there was more than five-hundredths of one percent
(0.05%) by weight of alcohol in the person’s blood is relevant evidence of
operating a motor vehicle while his ability to operate such motor vehicle is
impaired by the consumption of alcohol or intoxicating liquor; however, no
person shall be convicted while his ability to operate such vehicle is impaired
by consumption of alcohol or intoxicating liquor solely because there was more
than five-hundredths of one percent (0.05%) by weight of alcohol in the
person’s blood in the absence of additional evidence that such person’s driving
was affected by said consumption of alcohol to the extent that the public
health and safety was threatened or that said person had violated a state
statute or local ordinance in the operation of a motor vehicle; and
      (3)   Evidence that there was eight-hundredths of one percent (0.08%) or
more by weight of alcohol in his blood shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence that the person was under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating
liquor.
   (D)   Basis for Considering Evidence. The percent by weight of alcohol in
the blood shall be based upon grams of alcohol per one hundred (100)
milliliters of blood. The provisions of this subsection do not limit the
introduction of any other competent evidence bearing on the question of whether
the person was under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating liquor.
§ 7-3-23 ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED.
   The operator of every vehicle, while driving, shall devote his full time and
attention to such driving.
§ 7-3-24 PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES.
   No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise.
§ 7-3-25 ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter, leave or cross a highway from or
into a private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway.
§ 7-3-26 VEHICLES ENTERING TRAFFIC FROM PARKING.
   Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall
yield the right-of-way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the
rear. The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the
driver has given the appropriate signal which indicates his intention of
turning from the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no
event enter the line of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard
exists.
§ 7-3-27 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
§ 7-3-28 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
§ 7-3-29 RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Obedience to Crossing Signal.
      (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this subsection, the driver
of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen
feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until
he can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         (c)   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such distance, and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to
such crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
         (d)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
      (2)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (B)   Certain Vehicles Required to Stop.
      (1)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any school bus carrying any school child, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing
at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within
fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of
such railroad, and while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions
along such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed
until he can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and upon
proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross
only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing
gears while traversing such crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears
while crossing the track or tracks.
      (2)   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed.
§ 7-3-30 TEXTING AND DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway within the city limits of the city of Chandler, Oklahoma,
while using a handheld electronic communication device to manually compose,
send or read an electronic text message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (A) of this
section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (C)   The provisions of subsection (A) of this section shall not apply if
the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device
for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an
imminent emergency situation:
      (1)   An emergency response operator;
      (2)   A hospital, physician’s office or health clinic;
      (3)   A provider of ambulance services;
      (4)   A provider of firefighting services; or
      (5)   A law enforcement agency.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CELLULAR TELEPHONE. An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the federal communications commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
      COMPOSE, SEND or READ. With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic device that permits the
user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
      TEXT MESSAGE. Includes a text based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 4: TURNING MOVEMENTS
Section
   
7-4-1   Turning Markers or Indicators
   
7-4-2   Designation of Restricted Turns
   
7-4-3   Obedience to No-Turn Signs
   
7-4-4   U-Turns
   
7-4-5   Position and Method of Turning
   
7-4-6   Turning Movements and Required Signals
   
7-4-7   Giving Turn Signals
   
7-4-8   Hand and Arm Signals
§ 7-4-1 TURNING MARKERS OR INDICATORS.
   (A)   City Authority. City personnel, subject to any directions given by the
city council, by motion or resolution, are authorized to place markers, buttons
or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to be traveled,
as so indicated, may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   (B)   Compliance by Drivers. When authorized markers, buttons, or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indications.
§ 7-4-2 DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS.
   City personnel are hereby authorized to determine those street intersections
at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left or U-turns, and shall
have proper signs placed at the intersections. The making of the turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours. Where
turns are restricted during certain hours pursuant to this section, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when turns are
permitted.
§ 7-4-3 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-
turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the directions of
any such sign.
§ 7-4-4 U-TURNS.
   (A)   Prohibited Places. The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the vehicle
so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the city at the
following locations:
      (1)   At intersections controlled by traffic control signals, unless such
turns are specifically authorized;
      (2)   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the latter’s
direction; or
      (3)   At any location where an official “no U-turn” sign has been placed
and is maintained.
   (B)   Manner of Making U-Turns. A U-turn may be made only when it can be
made in safety and without interfering with other traffic. No person shall make
a U-turn except in the following manner:
      (1)   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the
right curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a
signal for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn
across the intersection;
      (2)   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      (3)   By yielding the right-of-way at all times to all vehicles until
such turn in completed; and
      (4)   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle.
§ 7-4-5 POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows:
   (A)   Right Turns. Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of a
right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge
of the roadway.
   (B)   Left Turns on Two-Way Roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions, on each roadway entering the
intersection, the approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of
the centerline where it enters the intersection. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the center of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the
left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
   (C)   Left Turns, on Other than Two-Way Roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearby as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon roadway being entered.
§ 7-4-6 TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   Proper Position. No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection
unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway, as required in
section
7-4-5  of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a
roadway, unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Signal Intention to Turn. A signal of intention to turn right or left,
slow or stop, when required, shall be given continuously during not less than
the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before turning or
stopping.
   (C)   Stop or Decrease Speed. No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the
speed of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner
provided herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there
is opportunity to give the signal.
§ 7-4-7 GIVING TURN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Requirement. Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be
given either by means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or
mechanical device of a type approved by the Oklahoma department of public
safety, except as provided in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Signal Devices. A vehicle shall be equipped with, and the required
signal given by, signal lamps or devices when:
      (1)   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle projects
twenty-four inches (24") or more to the left of the center of the steering
wheel;
      (2)   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not be
visible both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
      (3)   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle
projects fourteen feet (14') or more beyond the center top of the steering
post.
§ 7-4-8 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left Turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right Turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or Decrease Speed. Hand and arm extended downward with palm to
the rear.
CHAPTER 5: STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS REGULATED; TRUCK ROUTES
Section
   
7-5-1   Approaching or Entering Intersection
   
7-5-2   Turning Left at Intersection
   
7-5-3   Approaching Yield Intersection
   
7-5-4   Entering Through Highway
   
7-5-5   Facing Traffic Signals
   
7-5-6   Through Streets
   
7-5-7   Stop or Yield Intersections
   
7-5-8   Truck Driving and Route Restrictions
   
7-5-9   Loads on Vehicles
   
7-5-10   Play Streets
   
7-5-11   Crosswalks and Safety Zones Designated
   
7-5-12   Traffic Lanes
§ 7-5-1 APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Right-of-Way Rule. When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an
uncontrolled intersection from different highways at approximately the same
time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle on the right as otherwise stated in this chapter; however, the driver
of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or federal highway approaching an
intersection with a state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection or which is so close
thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Rule Modified. The right-of-way rule declared in subsection (A) of
this section is modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this
chapter.
§ 7-5-2 TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. After so yielding and having given signal when and as
required by this chapter, the driver may make the left turn, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
§ 7-5-3 APPROACHING YIELD INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a “Yield Right-of-Way” sign shall slow
to a reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility,
yielding the right-of-way to all vehicles on the intersecting street or highway
which have entered the intersection or which are so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
§ 7-5-4 ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAY.
   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this chapter at the
entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through highway, or which
are approaching so closely on the through highway as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
§ 7-5-5 FACING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   Right-of-Way Rules. If two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow,
warning or caution signs or signals at an intersection and are approaching as
to enter the intersection at the same time, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   If each vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
      (2)   If each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
      (3)   If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right-of-way.
      (4)   If one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take caution,
the one required to take caution shall have the right-of-way.
   (B)   Vehicle Within Intersection. In any event, a vehicle which has already
entered the intersection shall have the right-of-way over one which has not
entered the intersection.
§ 7-5-6 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   City Designation. The city council may designate any street or part of
a street a through street.
   (B)   Placement of Signs.
      (1)   Whenever the city council designates and describes a through
street, the stop sign, or yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be
placed and maintained on every street intersecting a through street, or
intersecting that portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic control signals.
      (2)   At the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by the city manager, if deemed desirable.
§ 7-5-7 STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Determination of Stop or Yield. The city manager, subject to any
directions given by the city council by motion or resolution, is hereby
authorized to determine and designate intersections upon other than through
streets where particular hazards exist and to determine whether:
      (1)   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
      (2)   Vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different
street as provided in this chapter, in which event it shall cause to be erected
a yield sign at every place where yield is required.
   (B)   Sign Construction and Placement. Every stop or yield sign erected
pursuant to this chapter shall bear the word “Stop” or “Yield” in letters not
less than eight inches (8") in height for a stop sign and not less than seven
inches (7") in height for a yield sign. Every stop or yield sign shall at night
be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop or yield sign shall be located as
close as practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or if there is no crosswalk, then the sign shall be located at
the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
   (C)   Entering Stop Intersection. Except when directed by a police officer
or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign, shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection. In the event there is no crosswalk, the
driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line before entering the
intersection. If there is no marked stop line, then the driver shall stop at
the point nearest the intersecting road where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on an intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. A driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or road, or
which is approaching so close as to constitute immediate hazard; but the driver
having so yielded may then proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding.
   (D)   Entering Yield Intersection. The driver of a vehicle approaching a
yield sign shall, in observance of such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable
for the existing condition or shall stop if necessary and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is
driving and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another road
so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded
may then proceed and drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection, shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding. A driver who enters a
yield intersection without stopping and has or causes a collision with a
pedestrian at a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection, shall prima facie
be considered not to have yielded as required herein. The provisions of this
section shall not release the drivers of other vehicles approaching the
intersection at such a distance as not to constitute immediate hazard from the
duty to drive with due care to avoid a collision. The driver of a vehicle
approaching a yield sign, if required for safety to stop, shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection before entering the
intersection; if there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, or if there is no stop line, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway.
§ 7-5-8 TRUCK DRIVING AND ROUTE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Designation of Routes. The city council may prescribe routes through
the city for the use of trucks in general, trucks of particular kinds and/or
other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing
through the city.
   (B)   Placement of Signs. Appropriate and adequate signs shall be placed
along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes.
   (C)   Drivers Restricted. When such signs are so erected and in place, the
driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed, as
provided above, while passing through the city, shall keep on such route and
shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such
vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving
within the city and not merely through the city.
§ 7-5-9 LOADS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   Dropping or Shifting Load. No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any
highway unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its
load from dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom,
except that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
the roadway.
   (B)   Covering Load. No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with
any load unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders, or
other loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall
have the load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of
the load from the vehicle.
   (C)   Livestock, Poultry. This section shall not apply to trucks loaded with
livestock, poultry or agricultural products only, except baled agricultural
products; provided, that any such truck shall be so constructed or loaded as to
prevent such livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom.
§ 7-5-10 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   Authority to Establish. City personnel, subject to any directions
given by the city council, shall have authority to declare any street or part
thereof a play street and to have placed appropriate signs or devices in the
roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
   (B)   Restrictions on Use. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof.
§ 7-5-11 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES DESIGNATED.
   City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council, may:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as they may deem necessary; and
   (B)   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as they may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
§ 7-5-12 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Marking Lanes. City personnel, subject to any directions given by the
city council, may be authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway
of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Driving Within Marked Lanes. Where such traffic lanes have been
marked, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to
keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully
passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or
otherwise authorized by ordinance.
CHAPTER 6: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
7-6-1   Authority to Install
   
7-6-2   Uniformity Required
   
7-6-3   Obedience to Official Devices
   
7-6-4   Enforcement Restrictions
   
7-6-5   Traffic Control Signal Legend
   
7-6-6   Pedestrian Control Signals
   
7-6-7   Flashing Signals
   
7-6-8   Unauthorized Devices Prohibited
   
7-6-9   Defacement of Devices
§ 7-6-1 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by
motion or resolution, shall have placed and maintained traffic control signs,
signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the
city to make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may have placed
and maintained such additional traffic control signs, signals, and devices as
they may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the
city or under state law or to guide or warn traffic.
§ 7-6-2 UNIFORMITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Conformance with State Manual. All traffic control signs, signals, and
devices shall conform to the manual of uniform traffic control devices approved
by the state department of public safety.
   (B)   Uniformity of Signs. All signs, signals, and devices required
hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as
to type and relative location throughout the city. All traffic control devices
erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this title
shall be official traffic control devices.
§ 7-6-3 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title.
§ 7-6-4 ENFORCEMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No provision of this title for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section of this title, does not state that official traffic control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices
are erected or in place.
§ 7-6-5 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have the
following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians:
   (A)   Green Alone, Go.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited, may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless an official sign at such
place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any pedestrian lawfully within
the intersection, or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal displays green
shall have the right-of-way over such vehicular traffic; and
      (2)   Pedestrian traffic facing a green signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless a “walk” signal
indicator is operating.
   (B)   Steady Yellow or Amber Alone, Caution.
      (1)   The showing of such signal color following green shall constitute a
warning that the “Red” or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter; and
      (2)   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near side
crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so near
the limit line when the “caution” signal first flashes that a stop cannot be
made in safety, in which event vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the “red” signal flashes.
   (C)   Red Alone, Stop.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk and shall remain standing until green or “go” is shown alone. Except
where official signs are erected prohibiting such turns, vehicles in the right
traffic lane, after making a full stop as required, may enter the intersection
cautiously and make a right turn, but such vehicles shall yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrians or other traffic in the intersection, and the turn shall
be made so as not to interfere in any way with traffic proceeding on a green
signal indication on the cross street; and
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter or cross the roadway
when such movement interferes with traffic proceeding on a green signal
indication on the cross street, or when the movement cannot be made in safety.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green or
“go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so, by a pedestrian “walk” signal.
   (D)   Steady Red with Green Arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal, when in the proper traffic
lane, may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated
by the arrow, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the movement
indicated by the green arrow is a left turn, the left turn shall be made only
on the red with green arrow signal; and
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian “walk”
signal.
   (E)   Green Arrow Alone. Whenever vehicular traffic movements are controlled
by green arrows alone and not displayed with any other signal indication,
vehicles facing such signals may make the movements indicated by the green
arrows, and the movements shall be made only when the green arrows are
displayed.
§ 7-6-6 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Special Pedestrian Control Signals. Special pedestrian control signals
exhibiting the words “Walk”, “Wait” or “Don’t Walk” shall regulate pedestrian
movement as follows:
      (1)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles; and
      (2)   Wait or Don’t Walk. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the “Walk” signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the “Wait” signal is showing.
   (B)   Pedestrian Activated School Crossing Signals. Whenever a pedestrian
activated school crossing signal is provided, it requires obedience by
vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
      (1)   Flashing Yellow.
         (a)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection
or pass such signal only with caution; and
         (b)   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
      (2)   Steady Yellow Alone.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such
vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the
signal when the red or “Stop” signal is exhibited; and
         (b)   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which
the signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
      (3)   Steady Red.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, and shall remain standing
until flashing yellow is shown alone;
         (b)   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the
signal, and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
      (4)   Steady Red and Steady Yellow Combined.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone; and
         (b)   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal
is about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the right-
of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
§ 7-6-7 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Red and Yellow Signals. Whenever a flashing red or yellow signal is
illuminated, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      (1)   Flashing Red. When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; and
      (2)   Flashing Yellow. When a yellow light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection,
or pass such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
§ 7-6-8 UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Placement. No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view
of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports
to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   Commercial Advertising. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall
any public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic sign, signal, or
device bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   (C)   Directional Information Allowed. This section shall not prohibit the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information which are of a type that cannot be mistaken for
official signs.
   (D)   Removal. Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device may be
removed without notice.
§ 7-6-9 DEFACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or
in fact alter, destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down,
remove or have in his possession any traffic control device or any railroad
sign or signal or an inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
   (B)   Exempted Persons. This chapter shall not apply to any of the following
persons when acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      (1)   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      (2)   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company.
CHAPTER 7: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-7-1   Illegal Parking Declared Public Nuisance
   
7-7-2   Application of Standing or Parking Regulations
   
7-7-3   Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
   
7-7-4   Parking Time Limits Established; Signs
   
7-7-5   Hours Limited on Streets and Parking Lots
   
7-7-6   Parking Zones
   
7-7-7   Setting Brakes; Motor Turned Off
   
7-7-8   Angle Parking
   
7-7-9   Parking in Spaces Marked Off
   
7-7-10   Method of Parking Close to Curb
   
7-7-11   Right-of-Way to Parallel Parking Space
   
7-7-12   Handicapped Parking
   
7-7-13   Permit for Loading or Unloading at Angle
   
7-7-14   Hazardous or Congested Places
   
7-7-15   Blocking Intersection or Crosswalk
   
7-7-16   One-Way Roadways
   
7-7-17   Adjacent to Schools
   
7-7-18   Intersections
   
7-7-19   Parking in Alleys, Blocking Driveways
   
7-7-20   Entry on Private Property; Trespass
   
7-7-21   Truck Parking
   
7-7-22   Double Parking
   
7-7-23   Parking for Certain Purposes Prohibited
   
7-7-24   Negligent Parking
§ 7-7-1 ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this title
governing, limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any
street or public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance, and each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for
such violation shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or
operator of such vehicle.
§ 7-7-2 APPLICATION OF STANDING OR PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary
for a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
§ 7-7-3 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Places Enumerated. No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle,
except in emergencies or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy-five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass; or
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his
control into any prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb.
§ 7-7-4 PARKING TIME LIMITS ESTABLISHED; SIGNS.
   City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by
motion or resolution, may establish parking time limits or prohibit parking on
designated streets or parts of streets and have appropriate signs placed on the
streets. When the signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle in violation of the sign. No such time limits shall be effective unless
a sign is erected and in place at the time of the alleged violation.
§ 7-7-5 HOURS LIMITED ON STREETS AND PARKING LOTS.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer
than twenty-four (24) hours. No person shall park a vehicle on any public
parking lot owned or controlled by the city for a period of time longer than
seventy-two (72) hours; however, the city manager may, under such rules,
regulations or directions as the city council may establish, grant special
permission for a person to park a vehicle on a public parking lot owned or
controlled by the city for a period of time in excess of seventy-two (72)
hours. This section shall not affect parking limits established for shorter
periods.
§ 7-7-6 PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Designation of Zones; Manner of Parking.
      (1)   All parking zones heretofore created and existing at the time this
section goes into effect are hereby approved. The city council, by motion or
resolution, shall have the power to extend, reduce, abolish, and create such
zones.
      (2)   Parking in the various zones shall be at an angle of approximately
thirty (30) degrees with the curb or parallel to the curb, as the city council
may determine; and the city personnel shall have appropriate lines marked on
the streets to delimit the individual parking spaces.
   (B)   Overtime Parking. Except as otherwise provided by this section, any
driver or person in charge of a vehicle who shall park or leave such vehicle in
a space marked with a time limit and leaves the vehicle in a parking zone after
the parking time allowed has expired is guilty of an offense.
   (C)   Parking Within Marked Lines. Every vehicle parked or left in a parking
meter zone shall be parked at the approximate angle indicated by the lines
marking the space in angle parking areas, and approximately parallel to the
curb in parallel parking areas. In either case, it shall be within the space
marked by the lines. Parking a vehicle in any manner contrary to this
subsection shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Police Department Supervision. The police department shall have charge
of the operation, supervision, and control of parking zones, shall have
supervision of parking and traffic in parking zones as well as in other areas
within the city, and shall be responsible for the enforcement of all ordinance
provisions relating to parking meters and to parking within zones.
   (E)   Use of Zones Without Charge, Days and Hours. Notwithstanding other
provisions of this section, vehicles may be parked in parking areas at any time
on Saturdays or Sundays and on other days designated as holidays, between the
hours of four o’clock (4:00) P.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M., daily, without
being guilty of an offense.
§ 7-7-7 SETTING BRAKES; MOTOR TURNED OFF.
   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked.
§ 7-7-8 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Signs or Markings Indicating Parking. The city manager, subject to any
directions given by the city council by motion or resolution, shall determine
upon what streets and parts of streets angle parking shall be permitted, and
shall have such streets marked or signed.
   (B)   Obedience to Signs or Markings. On those streets which have been so
signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle
other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such
signs or markings.
§ 7-7-9 PARKING IN SPACES MARKED OFF.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
§ 7-7-10 METHOD OF PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within
eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb. Any vehicle stopped or parked
upon the left hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs
shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to and within
eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb.
§ 7-7-11 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PARALLEL PARKING SPACE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking space
where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by another
vehicle shall stop his vehicle to the rear of the parking space until the
vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He then shall be
deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space over any other vehicle
attempting to park therein.
   (B)   The first of two (2) or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space, where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy, shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space.
§ 7-7-12 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking in Handicapped Area. It is unlawful for any person to place or
park a motor vehicle in any parking space on private property accessible to the
public and where the public is invited or public property that is designated
and posted as a reserved area for parking of motor vehicles of a physically
disabled person, unless such is eligible for a detachable insignia or
reflective insignia as a physically disabled person under the provisions of 47
O.S. § 15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided in said § 15-112 or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Penalty; Additional Charges. In addition to penalty, any person
violating this section shall pay any and all reasonable and necessary charges
incurred by the landowner or other person in having any motor vehicle removed
from the property and stored.
§ 7-7-13 PERMIT FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE.
   (A)   Authority to Issue Special Permit.
      (1)   City personnel are authorized to issue special permits to permit
the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
      (2)   Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
      (3)   The city manager may revoke such permits at any time.
   (B)   Compliance with Terms and Conditions Required. It is unlawful for any
permittee or other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of
any such permit.
§ 7-7-14 HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   Determination by City. City personnel are hereby authorized to
determine and regulate by proper signs the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles when such stopping, standing or parking would create an especially
hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   Compliance with Signs. When official signs are erected at hazardous or
congested places, as authorized in subsection (A) of this section, no person
shall violate such signs.
§ 7-7-15 BLOCKING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed.
§ 7-7-16 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   (A)   One-way Roadways.
      (1)   If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
      (2)   The city council may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof.
   (B)   Left Side of One-way Streets. City personnel may have signs erected
upon the left hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or
parking of vehicles. When the signs are in place, no person shall stand or park
a vehicle in violation of any such signs.
§ 7-7-17 ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   Determination by City. City personnel may have signs erected
indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any
school property when such parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic
or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   Compliance with Signs. No person shall park a vehicle in violation of
any such signs.
§ 7-7-18 INTERSECTIONS.
   The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets intersect shall be
prohibited fifteen feet (15') in advance of the crosswalk on the near side of
such intersection.
§ 7-7-19 PARKING IN ALLEYS, BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block a driveway entrance to any abutting property.
§ 7-7-20 ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRESPASS.
   (A)   Consent Required. No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon
real property owned or legally occupied by another without the owner’s or
occupant’s consent except where such private property is provided as public
parking and the general use of the property is not restricted by signs or
proper markings.
   (B)   Complaint by Owner. Where entry is made upon real property owned or
legally occupied by another without the owner’s or occupant’s consent, except
on unrestricted public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal
occupant of the premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to
show that permission for such entry was given.
§ 7-7-21 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   Weight Limits.
      (1)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation
to park any of the following vehicles which exceed a weight limit of one ton on
any street or alley in the city except as provided in subsection (B) of this
section:
         (a)   Truck;
         (b)   Bus;
         (c)   Tractor;
         (d)   Trailer;
         (e)   Truck trailer, semitrailer, or combination of any of the above;
or
         (f)   Any other commercial vehicle.
      (2)   The vehicles listed in subsection (A) of this section may be parked
entirely on private property so long as they are not in the area dedicated for
use as a public street and so long as they do not obstruct the use of the
streets by other vehicles and pedestrians.
   (B)   Transporting Hazardous Materials. It is unlawful to park, store or
otherwise let stand a truck or other vehicle which is used for the purpose of
transporting or delivering flammable and combustible liquids as defined by the
fire prevention code of the American insurance association and trucks or other
vehicles which are used for the transportation and delivery of liquefied
petroleum gases in any area within the city, except areas which are zoned
industrial 3 and industrial 4. However, the trucks and vehicles restricted in
this subsection may be temporarily parked at locations otherwise zoned for the
purpose of loading and unloading flammable and combustible liquids and
liquefied petroleum gases for a period not to exceed one and one-half (1-1/2)
hours during any twenty-four (24) hour period.
§ 7-7-22 DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   Prohibitive Conditions. No driver shall double park or double stop a
vehicle under the following conditions:
      (1)   Within fifty feet (50') of an intersection except alley
intersections, or within ten feet (10') of an alley intersection;
      (2)   Opposite a double parked or double stopped vehicle across the
street;
      (3)   When such double parking or double stopping would or does block or
interfere materially with the normal movement of traffic;
      (4)   When parking space adjacent to the curb is available;
      (5)   When directed by a police officer to move on; or
      (6)   In any position other than parallel to the curb and within two feet
(2') of the adjacent vehicle parked next to the curb.
   (B)   Driver Requirements. A driver may double park or double stop a vehicle
only as authorized in this section. There must be a licensed driver in any
vehicle while it is double parked or double stopped.
   (C)   Loading or Unloading Passengers. A driver may double stop for the
purpose of, but only while actually engaged in, the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers; subject, however, to all the general conditions
hereinabove set out.
   (D)   Loading or Unloading Merchandise. A driver may double park for the
purpose of, but only while actually engaged in, the expeditious loading or
unloading of merchandise; subject, however, to all the general conditions
hereinabove set out. No such vehicle shall be double parked longer than ten
(10) minutes.
§ 7-7-23 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   (C)   Washing, cleaning, or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
§ 7-7-24 NEGLIGENT PARKING.
   No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or leave unattended any
vehicle as follows:
   (A)   In a careless or negligent manner;
   (B)   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
   (C)   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets.
CHAPTER 8: LOADING REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-8-1   Definitions
   
7-8-2   Curb Loading Zones, Designation
   
7-8-3   Loading Zones Used Only for Designated Purpose
   
7-8-4   Parking in Curb Loading Zones
   
7-8-5   Public Carrier Stops and Stands
§ 7-8-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name of the owner
or his business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly used during
normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight
and which bears a regular state commercial license tag; and
      (2)   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during
normal business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight,
and which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the city at the rear
of the vehicle attached to the state license plate, together with an
identically numbered decal, issued to the vehicle.
   FREIGHT LOADING ZONES. All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment or resale.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONES. All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers, except bus stops,
taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles.
§ 7-8-2 CURB LOADING ZONES, DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Designation of Zones. City personnel, subject to any directions given
by the city council by motion or resolution, may determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall have placed and maintained
appropriate signs indicating the zones and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
   (B)   Compliance with Signs. No person shall stand or park a vehicle in
violation of signs erected in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Request for Zone; Costs to Applicant. If any loading zone is
established on request of any person, the signs shall not be placed until the
applicant pays to the city an amount of money estimated by the city council to
be adequate to reimburse the city for all costs of establishing and signing the
same.
§ 7-8-3 LOADING ZONES USED ONLY FOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE.
   No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone except as may be specifically provided by law.
§ 7-8-4 PARKING IN CURB LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Passengers. No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a
passenger curb loading zone for any purpose or period of time other than for
the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, during the hours when the
regulations applicable to such curb loading zones are effective, and then only
for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
   (B)   Freight.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pick up and loading of materials during hours when
the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes.
Vehicles using any commercial loading zone shall be subject to the licensing
requirements and regulations provided by this chapter.
      (2)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone.
§ 7-8-5 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   (A)   Designation. City personnel may establish loading zones for common
carriers, including, but not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands
and stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such public
streets in such places and in such number as they shall determine to be of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such loading zone shall
be designated by appropriate signs.
   (B)   Use of Bus and Taxicab Stands Restricted. No person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
the appropriate signs are in place. The driver of a passenger vehicle may
temporarily stop therein for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
   (C)   Parking of Buses and Taxicabs.
      (1)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage except in a bus stop, stand or loading zone designated as provided
herein, except in case of an emergency.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with
the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18")
from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to
unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
      (4)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
CHAPTER 9: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, CONDITION
Section
   
7-9-1   Vehicles or Objects Injurious to Streets
   
7-9-2   Obstructive and Dangerous Vehicles
   
7-9-3   Equipment
   
7-9-4   Mufflers, Cutouts
   
7-9-5   Width, Height, Length and Load
   
7-9-6   Jake Brakes
§ 7-9-1 VEHICLES OR OBJECTS INJURIOUS TO STREETS.
   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street.
§ 7-9-2 OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
chief of police and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
§ 7-9-3 EQUIPMENT.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the city
which is not equipped as required by law. It is unlawful to fail to use such
equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner prohibited by
law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law
upon a street of the city.
§ 7-9-4 MUFFLERS, CUTOUTS.
   No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler. No muffler cutout or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that exhaust
whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles.
§ 7-9-5 WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH AND LOAD.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police.
§ 7-9-6 JAKE BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any engine braking
system which utilizes engine exhaust or a decompression device to slow the
vehicle except in cases of imminent danger. Such braking systems are commonly
referred to as engine braking, jake brakes, Jacobs vehicle systems, PacBrake or
TecBrake.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions hereof shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed the sum as established by the city and costs as provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 7-12-2011)
CHAPTER 10: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
7-10-1   Subject to Traffic Control Signals
   
7-10-2   Use of Crosswalks
   
7-10-3   Crossing at Right Angles
   
7-10-4   Yield by Pedestrians
   
7-10-5   Walking along Roadways
   
7-10-6   Soliciting from Vehicle Occupants
   
7-10-7   Drivers Exercise Due Care
   
7-10-8   Crossing Prohibited
   
7-10-9   Obedience of Pedestrians to Railroad Signals
§ 7-10-1 SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as provided for in
this title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights
and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
§ 7-10-2 USE OF CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Right-of-Way at Crosswalks.
      (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when:
         (a)   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
         (b)   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge
of the roadway as to be in danger.
         The provisions of this subsection are not applicable under conditions
where pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
or walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
      (3)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any
unmarked crosswalk, or at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake or pass such stopped vehicle.
   (B)   Using Right Half of Crosswalk. Pedestrians, when crossing the street
at a crosswalk, shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of the
crosswalk.
§ 7-10-3 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
§ 7-10-4 YIELD BY PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The provisions of this section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited.
§ 7-10-5 WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practical, walk only on the left side of the
roadway, or its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction, and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
§ 7-10-6 SOLICITING FROM VEHICLE OCCUPANTS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride, donations,
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle;
   (B)   Stand in any street, roadway or park and stop or attempt to stop and
engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting contributions or
the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
street;
   (C)   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
   (D)   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift; or
   (E)   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway, attempt
to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar purpose.
§ 7-10-7 DRIVERS EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway.
§ 7-10-8 CROSSING PROHIBITED.
   Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk.
§ 7-10-9 OBEDIENCE OF PEDESTRIANS TO RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing gate
or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed.
CHAPTER 11: MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS
Section
   
7-11-1   Limitations on Use
   
7-11-2   Required Motorcycle Equipment, Headgear
   
7-11-3   Special Speed Limitation
§ 7-11-1 LIMITATIONS ON USE.
   (A)   Carrying Passengers. No driver of a two-wheel or three-wheel motor
vehicle or bicycle shall carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on
any street or highway, except as provided in this section:
      (1)   If any two-wheel or three-wheel motor vehicle with a wheel diameter
of twelve inches (12") or greater or any bicycle shall have either a double
seating device with double foot rests or a sidecar attachment providing a
separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
sidecar, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age
of sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger; and
      (2)   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
permissible.
   (B)   Riding on Sidewalks. No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden
upon any sidewalk of the city.
   (C)   Attaching to Moving Vehicles. No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle, or
motor scooter shall hold onto any moving vehicle for the purpose of being
propelled.
   (D)   Riding on Permanent Seat. A person operating a motor scooter,
motorcycle, motor driven cycle, or motor bicycle, shall ride only on the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (E)   Passing Between Lanes. No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter
shall pass other vehicles in between lanes of traffic traveling in the same
direction. Authorized emergency vehicles are excepted from the provisions of
this subsection.
   (F)   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate any motorcycle,
motor bicycle, or motor scooter within the city between and during the hours of
ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and four o’clock (4:00) A.M. of the next
day.
§ 7-11-2 REQUIRED MOTORCYCLE EQUIPMENT, HEADGEAR.
   (A)   Equipment. In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles and
motor scooters shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   Handlebars which do not exceed twelve inches (12") in height,
measured from the crown or point of attachment.
      (2)   Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle.
      (3)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop and
hold the vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One
means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the rear
wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the
vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between
red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100')
to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon application
of the service brake.
      (4)   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle shall be provided.
      (5)   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided
by the manufacturer.
      (6)   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least three hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding, and one taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall
emit a red light plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the
rear. The lights required by this subsection shall be burning whenever the
vehicle is in motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to
one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead.
      (7)   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects.
   (B)   Helmet Requirements. No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall
operate or ride upon any vehicle covered under this section unless the person
is equipped with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type which
complies with standards established by 49 C.F.R. § 571.218. All crash helmets
shall consist of lining, padding and chin straps and be of the type as not to
distort the view of the driver.
   (C)   Exhaust System. No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter
with the exhaust system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than
that of the original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturers of the
vehicle.
§ 7-11-3 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATION.
   No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed
greater than the speed limit legally posted. In no event, nor at any time, may
an operator under the age of sixteen (16) years operate a motorcycle or motor
scooter, including a motor driven bicycle, at a speed greater than thirty-five
(35) miles per hour, or at any time or any speed when prohibited by state law.
CHAPTER 12: BICYCLES
Section
   
7-12-1   Application of Regulations
   
7-12-2   Application of Traffic Laws to Bicycles
   
7-12-3   Obedience to Traffic Control Devices
   
7-12-4   Riding on Bicycles
   
7-12-5   Riding on Roadways and Bicycle Paths
   
7-12-6   Speed of Bicycle
   
7-12-7   Emerging from Alley or Driveway
   
7-12-8   Carrying Articles
   
7-12-9   Parking
   
7-12-10   Riding on Sidewalks
   
7-12-11   Lamps and Equipment on Bicycles
§ 7-12-1 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated
upon any street or upon any public way; or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this chapter.
§ 7-12-2 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS TO BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state and the traffic provisions of this code applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature are
inapplicable to such persons.
§ 7-12-3 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no right or left or
U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the directions
of such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to the pedestrians.
§ 7-12-4 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Use of Seat. No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   Carrying Passengers. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
§ 7-12-5 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Riding to Right Side. Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right hand side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in
the same direction.
   (B)   Riding Two Abreast. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (C)   Use of Bicycle Paths. If usable paths for bicycles are provided
adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use
the roadway.
§ 7-12-6 SPEED OF BICYCLE.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
§ 7-12-7 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley or driveway shall, upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the alley or driveway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle operator shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadways.
§ 7-12-8 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars.
§ 7-12-9 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against the building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
§ 7-12-10 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   (B)   Council Authority to Prohibit. The city council, by motion or
resolution, is authorized to have erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person; and when such signs
are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Yield to Pedestrians. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
§ 7-12-11 LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Lights or Reflectors. Bicycles in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on
the rear of a type which shall be visible from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   (B)   Siren, Whistle Prohibited. A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor
shall any person use, any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Brake. Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
CHAPTER 13: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
7-13-1   Purpose and Effect of Provisions
   
7-13-2   Place of Impoundment
   
7-13-3   Duration of Impoundment
   
7-13-4   Police Authority to Impound Vehicles
   
7-13-5   Disabled Vehicles
   
7-13-6   Vehicles on Bridge
   
7-13-7   Arrest and Detention of Driver
   
7-13-8   Vehicle Constitutes Traffic Hazard
   
7-13-9   Illegal Trespass by Vehicle
   
7-13-10   Vehicles Parked Overtime
   
7-13-11   Blocking Fire Exits or Hydrants
   
7-13-12   Vehicles Parked in Intersection
   
7-13-13   Stolen Vehicles; Recovery by Police
   
7-13-14   Vehicles with Outstanding Traffic Citations
§ 7-13-1 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
§ 7-13-2 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the
police officer in charge, and to no other place.
§ 7-13-3 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Inventory and Storage. Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle
impounded under the authority of this chapter shall be inventoried, stored and
held safely until an order for its release is received from an officer of the
traffic violations bureau or other proper police officer.
   (B)   Order of Release; Payment of Costs.
      (1)   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned
upon the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
      (2)   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until
all fines and costs due the city because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid.
§ 7-13-4 POLICE AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the police department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
§ 7-13-5 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
§ 7-13-6 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or underpass where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
§ 7-13-7 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
§ 7-13-8 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
§ 7-13-9 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Impoundment upon Complaint. An unattended vehicle found to be in
violation of section
7-13-4  of this chapter or section
6-2C-13  of this code may be impounded when the required complaint has been
properly made and filed as provided in this section.
   (B)   Filing of Complaint. If a violation of the provisions of section
7-13-4  of this chapter occurs, the owner or legal occupant who complains shall
sign a complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal
occupant’s property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is
unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the
vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining
party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is
parked or standing.
   (C)   Police Impoundment. Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner
or legal occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the
provisions of section
7-13-4  of this chapter have been violated, the police department shall cause
the vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage.
§ 7-13-10 VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place may be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of section
7-13-9 of this chapter, regarding more than twenty-four (24) hours, shall be
impounded.
§ 7-13-11 BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
§ 7-13-12 VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection, with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
§ 7-13-13 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Removal by Police. Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and
the registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding
one hour, or cannot be determined from the registration papers or other
identifying media in the vehicle or from records or information available from
reports of stolen cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized
place of impoundment, and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified
of the location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police
department.
   (B)   Owner Responsibility. If the registered owner is identified, located
and notified of the recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given
the right to make his own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the
period of one hour from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and
if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time
specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
§ 7-13-14 VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued, for
violation of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be
impounded if parked in violation of any provision of this title.
TITLE 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      Chapter
         
1.    STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
         
2.    LIBRARY AND LIBRARY BOARD
         
3.    CEMETERY
         
4.    CITY LAKES
         
5.    SHOOTING RANGE
         
6.    SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
8-1-1   Trees and Shrubbery
   
8-1-2   Obstructing Public Ways with Merchandise
   
8-1-3   Depositing Trash on Streets or Sidewalks
   
8-1-4   Interference with Drainage
   
8-1-5   Playing on Streets or Sidewalks
   
8-1-6   Washing Vehicles on Streets
   
8-1-7   Drainage of Water or Pollutants
   
8-1-8   Hazardous Conditions
   
8-1-9   Excavations
   
8-1-10   Penalty
§ 8-1-1 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   Trimming Trees and Shrubbery.
      (1)   Trimming Required.
         (a)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the
roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of
the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage, travel and view along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys.
         (b)   When such premises are occupied by some person other than the
owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as
hereinbefore required of the owner.
         (c)   Such trees or shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest
branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of
a street or alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk.
      (2)   Failure to Trim; City Abatement; Hearing; Lien.
         (a)   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or neglects to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in subsection (A)(1) of this section, after
receiving a ten (10) day notice from the chief of police to do so, shall be
guilty of an offense. Every day that the owner or occupant fails, refuses, or
neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the ten (10)
day notice, shall be a separate offense.
         (b)   The owner of the property may give his written consent to the
city authorizing the removal of trees and shrubbery. By giving such written
consent, the owner waives his right to a hearing by the city council.
         (c)   A hearing may be held by the city council to determine whether
the tree or shrubbery has caused the property to become detrimental to the
health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the community or a hazard to
traffic or creates a fire hazard to the danger of property.
         (d)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefitted by the removal
of such tree or shrubbery, the agents of the city are granted the right of
entry on the property for the removal of trees or shrubbery, and performance of
the necessary duties as a governmental function of the city.
         (e)   The city council shall determine the actual cost of such removal
of a tree and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The city clerk shall forward by
certified mail with return receipt requested to the property owner at the
address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the county treasurer’s office
a statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the tree removal is
done by the city, the cost to the property owner for the removal shall not
exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for
removal. If the removal is done on a private contract basis, the contract shall
be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
         (f)   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of
the mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in
which the property is located and the same shall be levied on the property and
collected by the county treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. The cost
and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the
cost is certified to the county treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem
taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property, and the lien shall continue until
the cost shall be fully paid. At any time prior to the collection as provided
in this subsection, the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the
amount owing and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the city
clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and
directing discharge of the lien.
   (B)   Injuring Trees and Shrubbery. It is unlawful for any person to injure
any tree or shrubbery in a street or alley. This subsection shall not prohibit
the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
§ 8-1-2 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS WITH MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   Placing Merchandise on Public Ways. It is unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to place upon or permit to be placed upon parkways, streets
and alleys, any goods, wares, articles of merchandise, or any other
obstruction, and leave same thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on
a business or trade.
   (B)   Interference with Pedestrian or Vehicular Traffic. It is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct sidewalks more than one-half
(1/2) from the building in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct streets and alleys in any manner so as
to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
§ 8-1-3 DEPOSITING TRASH ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw, or
sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parkings or sidewalks any paper, rubbish,
grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or other refuse of
any kind.
§ 8-1-4 INTERFERENCE WITH DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk or alley by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water into
the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutters.
§ 8-1-5 PLAYING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on sidewalks or upon the main traveled
portion of streets and alleys, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
§ 8-1-6 WASHING VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   (A)   Washing Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to wash an
automobile or any other vehicle in any street and it is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Disposal of Water, Mud or Trash from Vehicles.
      (1)   Disposal of water or mud from a vehicle shall drain to approved
storm drainage. Any dirt or mud shall be disposed of by returning same to the
yard.
      (2)   Trash removed during the washing shall be disposed of in a trash
receptacle.
§ 8-1-7 DRAINAGE OF WATER OR POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   Water from Filling Stations. It is unlawful for any owner or operator
of a filling station or other place of business, or any agent or employee
thereof, to cause or allow water, grease, or other fluid to flow or drain into,
upon, over, or across any sidewalk, parking, street, alley, or other public
way.
   (B)   Polluting Substances. It is unlawful for any residence or business to
allow drainage of a polluting substance into any street, alley or sidewalk. For
the purpose of this section, a POLLUTING SUBSTANCE is one defined under state
law, 82 O.S. § 1084.2.
§ 8-1-8 HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Adjacent Property Owner or Occupant Responsible. It is unlawful for
any owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to
permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become a
hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area. Such area shall be
cleaned upon notification by city authorities.
   (B)   Open Grating. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to permit
to be open or leave open any cellar door, manhole or grating of any kind in or
upon any street, sidewalk or alley of the city.
§ 8-1-9 EXCAVATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to make any excavation or cutting in any
street, sidewalk, alley or public grounds or to remove any earth or
construction material therefrom, except when so authorized to do so by the
city.
§ 8-1-10 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 2: LIBRARY AND LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
8-2-1   Intent
   
8-2-2   Library Established
   
8-2-3   Library Board
   
8-2-4   Powers and Duties
   
8-2-5   Annual Report by Librarian
   
8-2-6   Appropriations
§ 8-2-1 INTENT.
   It is the desire and intent of the city council to provide a public library
service to the residents of the city, for the benefit of the city, the state,
and the nation.
§ 8-2-2 LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   The Chandler public library is hereby established.
§ 8-2-3 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment; Compensation.
      (1)   The Chandler public library shall be governed by a board of five
(5) members appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council.
Appointments to the library board shall be made on the basis of ability,
understanding of the total responsibilities and objectives of public libraries,
and an active interest in the attainment of these goals.
      (2)   All library board members shall serve thereon without compensation.
   (B)   Terms. The board members shall hold office as follows: initial
appointments shall be for one one-year term, two (2) two-year terms, and two
(2) three-year terms. Subsequent appointments shall be for three (3) year terms
except in the case of an appointment to fill a vacancy, which appointment shall
be for the remainder of the unexpired term which is vacant. All terms of
initial and succeeding appointees shall expire on April 30 of the designated
year.
   (C)   Removal of Members. Any board member may be removed by the appointing
authority for misconduct, failure to attend board meetings, or other neglect of
duty.
   (D)   Officers, Rules. Immediately after the initial appointments, and
annually thereafter, the library board members shall meet and organize by an
election of one of their members as chairman, and by the election of such other
officers as they deem necessary. They may adopt such laws, rules and
regulations for their own guidance and for the government of the library as may
be expedient and not inconsistent with this chapter and the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1995-02, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 8-2-4 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   City Manager. The city manager shall appoint a librarian and shall
recommend an annual budget to the city council.
   (B)   Library Board.
      (1)   The library board shall set the policies of the library to accept
or decline gifts, and administer the expenditure of funds received from
appropriations, gifts and grants.
      (2)   The library board may contract for and receive funds available to
it for library purposes from the United States, the state, and any agency or
instrumentalities of these entities.
§ 8-2-5 ANNUAL REPORT BY LIBRARIAN.
   The librarian shall submit an annual financial and statistical report to the
mayor and city council and, if necessary, to the state department of libraries
for each fiscal year ending June 30. The report shall include an accounting for
monies received and expended and such other statistics about library use,
collections and staff which may be deemed necessary to account for their trust,
by July 31, of the same year.
§ 8-2-6 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The mayor and city council shall annually appropriate to the library board
from funds available to the city such monies as are deemed necessary to operate
and maintain the public library for the education and cultural enrichment of
the citizens of the city.
CHAPTER 3: CEMETERY
Section
   
8-3-1   Cemetery Policy
   
8-3-2   Definitions
   
8-3-3   General Rules; Enforcement
   
8-3-4   Cemetery Lots
   
8-3-5   Interments
   
8-3-6   Plants and Shrubs
§ 8-3-1 CEMETERY POLICY.
   For the mutual protection of lot owners and the cemetery as a whole, the
following rules and regulations have been adopted by the city as the rules and
regulations of city cemetery, and all lot owners and visitors within the
cemetery and all lots sold shall be subject to the rules and regulations; and
subject further, to such other rules and regulations, amendments or alterations
as shall be adopted by the city council from time to time, and the reference to
these rules and regulations in the deed or certificate of ownership to a lot
shall have the same force and effect as if set forth therein.
§ 8-3-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CEMETERY. Includes a burial park for earth interments, a community mausoleum
for vault or crypt interments, a crematory or crematorium and columbarium for
cinerary interments, or a combination of one or more than one thereof.
   CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP. Applies to the original conveyance given by the
cemetery to the original purchaser.
   CRYPT. Includes an underground chamber or vault serving as a burial place.
   INTERMENT. The permanent disposition of the remains of a deceased person by
cremation and inurnment, entombment, or burial.
   LOT. Applies to numbered divisions as shown on the record plat which
consists of two (2) or more plots.
   LOT MARKER. A type of post used by the cemetery to locate corners of the lot
or plot.
   MAUSOLEUM. Includes a large, imposing tomb or small building serving as a
burial place.
   MEMORIAL. A monument, marker, tablet, headstone, tombstone, urn and crypt
and niche place.
   MONUMENT. Includes a tombstone or memorial of granite or marble which shall
extend above the surface of the ground.
   PLOT. Applies to a space of sufficient size to accommodate one adult
interment approximately three feet by ten feet (3' x 10').
   TEMPORARY MARKER. Includes markers made of synthetic or metallic materials
such as wood, plastic, tin as obtained from funeral homes or other sources.
§ 8-3-3 GENERAL RULES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Rules Established. The city owns and operates the city cemetery in
accordance with the laws of the state and city. The following rules shall also
govern the cemetery and its maintenance, operations and grounds:
      (1)   Employees of the city are not expected to work on Saturdays,
Sundays, or holidays, except when absolutely necessary in the preservation of
order, and as specified in the cemetery rules and regulations. Consequently,
funerals on Sundays and holidays will be permitted only in emergencies.
      (2)   Employees of the city are not permitted to do any work for lot
owners except upon order of the cemetery superintendent but are required to be
civil and courteous to all visitors.
      (3)   All fees or charges for services are payable at the city clerk’s
office as herein stated and patrons of the cemetery are requested not to pay
any fee or gratuity to any employee.
      (4)   Persons within the cemetery shall use only the avenues, roads,
walks and alleys, and no one is permitted to walk upon or across lots or lawns
unless it be necessary to do so to gain access to one’s own lot. The cemetery
expressly disclaims liability for any injuries sustained by anyone violating
this rule.
      (5)   Persons visiting the cemetery or attending funerals are strictly
prohibited from picking flowers, wild or cultivated, breaking or injuring any
tree, shrub, or plant, or from writing upon, defacing or injuring any memorial,
fence, or other structure within the cemetery grounds.
      (6)   Motor cars and vehicles must be kept under complete control at all
times. When meeting a funeral procession, they must stop until the procession
passes. They must not pass a funeral procession going in the same direction.
Motor cars must not be left with the engine running, and the emergency brakes
must be set when the driver is not in his seat. Mufflers must not be opened nor
the horn sounded within the cemetery.
      (7)   The following activities are prohibited:
         (a)   The driving of motor cars or other vehicles through the gates or
in the cemetery at speeds exceeding five (5) miles per hour;
         (b)   Driving any motor car, vehicle or animal across or upon any
grave, lot or lawn or parking or leaving the same thereon;
         (c)   Parking or leaving any motor car or vehicle on any road or
driveway within the cemetery at such location or in such position as to prevent
any other car or vehicle from passing the same, and if so parked or left, the
management will remove the car or vehicle; and
         (d)   Making a complete or partial reverse turn of any motor car or
vehicle on any road or driveway within the cemetery.
      (8)   Children under fifteen (15) years of age are not permitted within
the cemetery, or its buildings, unless accompanied by proper persons to take
care of them.
      (9)   Receptacles for waste materials are located at convenient places;
therefore, the throwing of rubbish on the drives and paths, or on any part of
the grounds, or in the buildings, is prohibited.
      (10)   The placing of boxes, shells, toys, metal designs, ornaments,
chairs, settees, vases and similar articles upon plots will not be permitted,
and, if so placed, the management reserves the right to remove them. The
following are exceptions:
         (a)   Memorial Day, when flowers, metal boxes, ornaments, glass vases,
and similar objects will be allowed; however, they must be removed within three
(3) days.
         (b)   On Christmas, when blankets and decorations will be allowed, and
they must be removed by January 15.
         (c)   All other exceptions must be cleared by the cemetery
superintendent or city manager.
         Personal property removed by the city manager will be retained for
thirty (30) days after removal so that property owners may claim their property
if they so desire.
      (11)   It is of the utmost importance that there should be strict
observance of the proprieties in the cemetery. Therefore, all persons within
the cemetery should avoid conduct unbecoming a sacred place, as follows:
         (a)   Loud or boisterous talking;
         (b)   Being about the grounds or in any of the buildings;
         (c)   Bringing lunches or refreshments into the cemetery or consuming
them on the grounds;
         (d)   Peddling or soliciting the sale of any commodity within the
cemetery;
         (e)   Placing of signs or notices or advertisements of any kind within
the cemetery;
         (f)   Bringing dogs into the cemetery or any of the buildings; and
         (g)   Bringing firearms into the cemetery except as authorized by
state law which preempts local law pursuant to 21 O.S. § 1289.4, or by a
military escort accompanying a veteran’s funeral or attending memorial
services.
      (12)   It is the duty of the city manager to see that the rules and
regulations are complied with and it is his duty to see that order is
maintained and to protect and promote the best interests of the cemetery. To
that end, he is authorized to make temporary additional rules which may be
needed, from time to time, to meet emergencies which are not covered by these
rules and regulations.
      (13)   Special cases may arise in which the literal enforcement of a rule
may impose unnecessary hardship. The city manager, therefore, is given the
necessary powers to make exceptions, suspensions, or modifications of any of
these rules and regulations, without notice, when in the judgment of the city
manager such action appears necessary; and such temporary exception, suspension
or modification shall in no way be construed as affecting the general
application of such rules and regulations.
   (B)   Enforcement of Rules. The city is hereby empowered to enforce all
rules and regulations and to exclude from the cemetery any person violating the
same. The city shall have charge of the grounds and buildings, including the
conduct of funerals, traffic, employees, plot owners and visitors and at all
times shall have supervision and control of all persons in the cemetery.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-14-2015)
§ 8-3-4 CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   Lots and Lot Owners. The following provisions are applicable to lots
and lot owners:
      (1)   Persons desiring to purchase lots should visit the cemetery where
the management will aid them in making a selection. Payment for lots is to be
made at city clerk’s office and a deed to lot will be issued upon receipt of
payment. A copy of the prices in effect for lot spaces is kept in the city
clerk’s office. Prices are subject to change by the city without notice.
      (2)   Lots of various sizes are available in the cemetery and hence such
lots will not be subdivided.
      (3)   No lot shall be used for any other purpose than for the burial of
the human dead.
      (4)   No easement or right of interment is granted to any plot owner in
any road, drive, alley or walk within the cemetery, but such road, drive, alley
or walk may be used as a means of access to the cemetery or buildings, as long
as the city manager devotes it to that purpose.
      (5)   The right to enlarge, reduce, replat or change the boundaries or
grading of the cemetery, or a section or sections, from time to time, including
the right to modify or change the locations of or remove or regrade roads,
drives, or walks, or any part thereof is hereby reserved. The right to lay,
maintain and operate, or alter or change pipelines or gutters for sprinkling
systems or drainage is also expressly reserved, as well as is the right to use
cemetery property not sold to individual plot owners for cemetery purposes,
including interment of the dead, or for anything necessary, incidental or
convenient thereto. The city reserves to itself and to those lawfully entitled
thereto a perpetual right of ingress and egress over plots for the purpose of
passing to and from other plots.
      (6)   Descriptions of lots will be in accordance with the cemetery plats
which are kept on file in the city clerk’s office.
      (7)   The city will take all reasonable precautions to protect lot owners
and the property rights of plot owners within the cemetery from loss or damage;
but the cemetery distinctly disclaims all responsibility for loss or damage
from causes beyond its reasonable control, and especially from strikers,
malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions,
insurrections, riots, or order of any military or civil authority, whether the
damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein provided.
      (8)   It is the duty of the plot owner to notify the city of any change
in his post office address.
      (9)   The instrument of conveyance of these rules and regulations and any
amendments thereto constitute the sole agreement between the city and the plot
owner. The statement of any employee or agent, unless confirmed in writing by
the city, shall in no way bind the cemetery.
      (10)   The city council shall have the power to limit the placement of a
community mausoleum for vaults and crypts for interments in restricted areas.
      (11)   No private mausoleum shall be allowed after May 1, 1985.
      (12)   A crypt or concrete vault is allowed only with approval of the
city manager and subject to subsection
8-3-5(B) and section
8-3-6 of this chapter.
   (B)   Care of Lots.
      (1)   The general care of the cemetery is assumed by the city.
      (2)   The general care assumed by the city shall in no case mean the
maintenance, repair or replacement of any memorial, tomb, or mausoleum placed
or erected upon lots; nor the doing of any special or unusual work in the
cemetery, including the work caused by the impoverishment of the soil; nor does
it mean the reconstruction of any marble or granite work or any section or
plot, or any portion or portions thereof in the cemetery, caused by the
elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers, malicious
mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions, insurrections,
riots, or by the order of any military or civil authority, whether the damage
be direct or collateral, other than as herein provided.
      (3)   Lot owners desiring additional care of their lots may arrange for
such care through private contract.
      (4)   The money received for perpetual care shall be held in trust and
invested as provided by law. The city reserves the right, however, either to
handle all investments itself, or to deposit the funds with any person,
company, or corporation qualified to act as trustee for such funds.
      (5)   Concrete walkways will not be allowed between lots.
      (6)   Foundations for grave memorials must be of concrete not less than
five inches (5") deep and extend no less than six inches (6") around the
circumference of the memorial. Foundation requirements shall pertain to all
memorials, including double stones and family monuments and burial vaults that
extend above the surface of the surrounding terrain. Foundations must be level
with surrounding terrain:
         (a)   Grave memorials and foundations will not be installed until
proper location has been verified by the city manager or his representative;
and
         (b)   Each memorial, regardless of size, shall be subject to a setting
permit fee as established by the city’s fee schedule. The fee shall be paid to
the city clerk prior to installation of the memorial.
      (7)   No plot or lot shall be enclosed in any type of ground marker,
curbing or fencing.
   (C)   Descent of Title. The laws of the state govern the descent of title to
cemetery lots as well as other matters pertaining to assignment, conveyance
devices, trust deeds and inalienability. The city will assist any lot owner who
desires information or advice on questions pertaining to his lot.
§ 8-3-5 INTERMENTS.
   (A)   Application for Interment Permit. An application form as established
by the city, and on file in the office of the city clerk, shall be used to
secure an interment permit for interment within any cemetery operated by the
city. All applications must be submitted with a statement signed by family or
friends requesting interment that all fees have been explained and understood
by all parties.
   (B)   General Provisions. The following provisions are applicable to
interments:
      (1)   The cemetery will be open to the public from sunrise to sunset.
      (2)   Where immediate burial is required by laws of the state or under
the rules and regulations of the state board of health, interments may be made
on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, but an additional fee will be added to the
regular interment charge, otherwise, interments will be permitted only Monday
through Friday.
      (3)   All funerals, on entering the cemetery, shall be under the charge
of city personnel.
      (4)   Once a casket containing a body is within the confines of the
cemetery, no funeral director nor his embalmer, assistant, employee, or agent,
shall be permitted to open the casket or to touch the body without the consent
of the legal representative of the deceased or an order signed by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Funeral directors, upon arrival at the cemetery, must present the
necessary burial permit from the local health office.
      (6)   All orders for interments in lots must be signed by the owner of
the lot or his legal representative. However, when this is impossible because
such person is absent from the city, telegraphic permission will be accepted in
lieu thereof.
      (7)   Lot owners shall not allow interments in their lots in return for
remuneration of any kind.
      (8)   No interment of two (2) or more bodies shall be made in one grave
except in the case of mother and child or two (2) infants in one casket.
      (9)   When an interment is to be made in a lot, the location of such
interment shall be designated by the lot owner. Should the lot owner fail or
neglect to make such designation, the city reserves the right to make the
interment in a location designated by the city manager.
      (10)   The employees of the city are the only persons who will be
permitted to open graves, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   When the cemetery is directed to make a disinterment by the
order of a court of competent jurisdiction and a certified copy of such order
has been filed with the city; or
         (b)   When the district judge directs the disinterment for the purpose
of holding an inquest and has filed with the city his signed authorization to
release the body to himself and his lawful agents. In such case the
disinterment must be made by his lawful agents. City employees will not be
permitted to assist his agents.
      (11)   All charges for interment or services in connection therewith
shall be paid to the city which will issue a receipt therefor upon request. A
fee as set by the city shall be charged for each adult interment and for each
child interment.
      (12)   Arrangements for the payment of any and all indebtedness due the
city must be made before interment will be made.
      (13)   The right is reserved by the city to insist upon at least twenty-
four (24) hours’ notice prior to any interment and at least one week’s notice
prior to any disinterment or removal.
      (14)   All interments, disinterments, and removals must be made at the
time, and in the manner and upon the charges fixed by the city council.
      (15)   Besides being subject to these rules and regulations, all
interments, and disinterments and removals are made subject to the orders and
laws of the properly constituted public authorities.
      (16)   The city will not be responsible for any order given by telephone
or for any mistake occurring from the want of precise and proper instructions
as to the particular space, size of grave, and location in a plot, where
interment is desired.
      (17)   The city will not be liable for the interment permit nor for the
identity of the person sought to be interred.
      (18)   All interments, other than cremated remains, shall be placed in an
outer receptacle which must consist of steel, concrete, fiberglass or other
nonperishable materials of sufficient rigidity to resist pressures that are
applied as a result of ground burial.
(Ord. 1995-08, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 8-3-6 PLANTS AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Permission from City Required. There shall be no individual beds of
shrubbery or flowers allowed on the grounds except by special permission of the
city. Application for the same should be accompanied by a scaled sketch of the
proposed planting indicating the position and names of the plants and shrubs
suggested.
   (B)   City Authority to Remove. The city shall have authority to remove all
floral designs, flowers, weeds, trees, shrubs, plants, or herbage of any kind
from the cemetery as soon as, in the judgment of the city personnel, they
become unsightly, dangerous, detrimental, or diseased, or when they do not
conform to the standards maintained or as heretofore set forth in the rules and
regulations.
   (C)   Nonliability of City.
      (1)   The city shall not be liable for floral pieces, baskets, or frames
in which, or to which, such floral pieces are attached beyond the acceptance of
such floral pieces for cemetery services held in the cemetery.
      (2)   The city shall not be responsible for frozen plants or herbage of
any kind or for plantings damaged by the elements, thieves, or by other causes
beyond its control.
   (D)   Resale of Lot by Owner; Notice to City. The owner shall notify the
city clerk’s office any time his lot is resold.
   (E)   City Consent for Removal. The city reserves the right to prevent the
removal of any flowers, floral designs, trees, shrubs, plants, or herbage of
any kind unless the city gives consent.
CHAPTER 4: CITY LAKES
Section
   
8-4-1   Definitions
   
8-4-2   Lake Use Permits
   
8-4-3   Vehicular Traffic Laws
   
8-4-4   Aircraft
   
8-4-5   Swimming and Picnicking
   
8-4-6   Camping
   
8-4-7   Hunting, Fishing and Trapping
   
8-4-8   Sanitation
   
8-4-9   Fires
Article A. Watercraft
   
8-4A-1   Adoption of State Boat and Water Codes
   
8-4A-2   Operation of Watercraft
   
8-4A-3   Registration; Licensing; Annual Tax Decal
   
8-4A-4   Watercraft Capacity
   
8-4A-5   Equipment and Condition of Vessel
   
8-4A-6   Reckless Operation; Operation under Influence
   
8-4A-7   Care and Prudent Speed
   
8-4A-8   Riding in or on Watercraft
   
8-4A-9   Procedure Upon Collision, Accident or Other Casualty
   
8-4A-10   Rules of Right-of-Way
   
8-4A-11   Watercraft Not in Use
   
8-4A-12   Mooring Facilities
   
8-4A-13   Launching or Loading of Watercraft
   
8-4A-14   Unattended Watercraft
   
8-4A-15   Drivers Using Mechanical Diving or Breathing Device
   
8-4A-16   Watercraft Security at Night
   
8-4A-17   Watercraft User Fee
   
8-4A-18   Watercraft Safety Requirements
   
8-4A-19   Flotation Devices
   
8-4A-20   Airborne Device on Watercraft
   
8-4A-21   Personal Watercraft
   
8-4A-22   Waterskiing
   
8-4A-23   Jet Skis, Ski Bikes or Similar Devices
   
8-4A-24   Rental of Private Boats Prohibited
   
8-4A-25   Inexperienced Boat Operators
   
8-4A-26   Abandonment of Vessel; Removal
   
8-4A-27   Violations Complaint; Notice to Appear
Article B. Restrictions
   
8-4B-1   Animals
   
8-4B-2   Hours of Use
   
8-4B-3   Close or Restrict Park Use
   
8-4B-4   Unauthorized Entry
   
8-4B-5   Loitering at Night
   
8-4B-6   Curfew for Minors
   
8-4B-7   Assumption of Risk
   
8-4B-8   Firearms, Explosives
   
8-4B-9   Injuring or Defacing Property
   
8-4B-10   Archaeological Finds
   
8-4B-11   Glass Containers
   
8-4B-12   Unattended or Abandoned Property
   
8-4B-13   Alcoholic Beverages
   
8-4B-14   Solicitation of Business
   
8-4B-15   Special Events
   
8-4B-16   Access to Lake Lands
§ 8-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Pertains to all aircraft including, but not limited to, airplanes,
seaplanes, helicopters, ultralight aircraft, motorized hang gliders, hot air
balloons, any nonpowered flight devices or any other flight equipment.
   BEACH or SWIMMING AREA. Designated areas which include the actual sand beach
and adjoining land area and facilities, as well as the adjacent waters used for
bathing, swimming and wading.
   BUOY. An anchored marker for marking a position on the water, or a hazard,
shoal or mooring, or any other prohibitive activity area.
   CAMPING. Utilization of any piece of equipment for sleeping in or upon
including, but not limited to, a sleeping bag, hammock, station wagon, car,
van, motor home, bus, trailer, tent, tarp, truck, house vehicle, or pickup
camper for the purpose of occupying a portion of public lands for temporary
outdoor living.
   CAMPSITE. Each small section of the camping area that contains a single fire
ring.
   CHANDLER AND BELL COW LAKES. The waters, lands and properties owned or
controlled by the Chandler municipal authority or city of Chandler.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. That person designated by the city manager to be
responsible for the supervision of law enforcement activities which include the
lakes.
   CLASS A VESSEL. A vessel which is less than sixteen feet (16') in length.
   CLASS 1 VESSEL. A vessel which is sixteen feet (16') or longer and less than
twenty-six feet (26') in length.
   CLASS 2 VESSEL. A vessel which is twenty-six feet (26') or longer and less
than forty feet (40') in length.
   CLASS 3 VESSEL. A vessel which is forty feet (40') or longer in length.
   CLOSED ZONE. Any water or land area wherein the presence or operation of all
watercraft or other use is prohibited and marked by appropriate means in
accordance with the uniform waterway marking system or other means.
   DESIGNATED AREAS. Any location, place, site, region, facility, zone, or
space identified as such by the city manager or a designee.
   DOCK. That part of a structure which may be used for the temporary mooring
of watercraft.
   FACILITY. Includes all or any part of structures, equipment or other real or
personal property or interest therein, and the provisions of the facilities.
   FIRE CHIEF. That person designated by the city manager as the chief of the
Chandler fire department which includes jurisdiction of the lakes.
   HORSEPOWER. The horsepower rating published by the manufacturer for the
power unit involved.
   JET SKI DEVICE. A fuel powered outboard or inboard class A motorboat as
defined in 63 O.S. § 4002, which uses an internal combustion engine powering a
water jet pump as its primary source of propulsion.
   JUVENILE. Any person who has not attained their eighteenth birthday.
   LAKE MANAGEMENT AREA. The approximate two thousand two hundred fifty (2,250)
acres of Bell Cow Lake lands owned by the Chandler municipal authority and the
approximate five hundred (500) acres of Chandler Lake land owned by the city.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The person(s) designated by the chief of police to
enforce the laws, rules, and regulations at the lakes and to issue citations or
effectuate arrests for violations of game, fishing, boating and other
violations of city ordinances.
   LENGTH OF BOAT. Refers to the overall length of the hull, extending from end
to end over the deck, excluding sheer, measured in a straight line from the
foremost part of a vessel and parallel to the centerline. Bow sprits, bumpkins,
rudders, outboard motor brackets and similar fittings or attachments are not
included in the measurement. Length shall be stated in feet and inches. Class A
boats are under sixteen feet (16'). Class 1 boats are between sixteen (16) and
twenty-six feet (26'). Class 2 boats are between twenty-six (26) and forty feet
(40'). Class 3 boats are above forty feet (40'). Class 2 and 3 boats are
prohibited on city lakes.
   MINOR. Any person over sixteen (16) years of age but under eighteen (18)
years of age.
   MOTORBOAT. Any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not such machinery
is the principal source of propulsion.
   OPERATE. To navigate or otherwise use a motorboat or a vessel.
   OPERATOR. The person who operates, has actual physical control, or has
charge of the navigation or use of a vessel.
   PERMIT. Any written license or letter of consent issued by or under the
authority of the city manager or a designee of the city manager, permitting the
performance of a specific act or acts.
   PERMITTEE. A person who lawfully possesses a permit.
   PERSONAL FLOTATION DEVICE (PFD). A lifesaving device which has been approved
by the U.S. coast guard.
   PERSONAL WATERCRAFT. A vessel which uses an inboard motor powering a water
jet pump as its primary source of motive power and which is designed to be
operated by a person sitting, standing or kneeling on the vessel, rather than
the conventional manner of sitting or standing inside the vessel, or a vessel
which is similar in appearance and operation to a personal watercraft but which
is powered by an outboard or propeller driven motor, or a vessel less than
sixteen feet (16') in length which travels across the water above or on a
cushion of air provided by engines, propellers or other means of propulsion.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. That person designated by the city manager to be
responsible for the supervision of building and maintenance operations at the
lakes.
   REPORTABLE BOATING ACCIDENT. An accident, collision or other casualty
involving a vessel which results in loss of life, injury sufficient to require
first aid or medical attention, or actual physical damage to property in excess
of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   SCUBA. Divers equipped with self-contained underwater breathing apparatus.
   TRAIL. Any designated path or trail for persons riding on horseback, walking
or hiking.
   UNDER WAY. The movement of a vessel whether by mechanical or nonmechanical
means which is other than incidental to the force of wind, waves or current.
   VESSEL. Every description of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
   WAKE. The track of waves left by a vessel or other object moving through the
water, and such waves are greater than the natural waves in the immediate area
of the vessel, or are cresting and showing white water, or may cause injury or
damage to any person or property.
   WATERCRAFT. Any vessel used or capable of being used as a means of
transportation on water, including, but not limited to, powerboats, cruisers,
houseboats, sailboats, rowboats, canoes, kayaks, jet skis and any other such
equipment.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4-2 LAKE USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Minimum Age. No permit required by the provisions of this chapter
shall be issued to any person under the age of sixteen (16) years. Children
under age sixteen (16) can fish for free if they are in the company of a
permittee.
   (B)   Proration or Refund Disallowed. No fee required by this section shall
be prorated and no fee once paid shall be refunded due to inclement weather
conditions, except advance payments on pavilion rentals.
   (C)   Issuance. All boat permits required by the provisions of this chapter
shall be issued by the city clerk or such other persons as may be designated by
the city council or the city manager.
   (D)   Transfer. No permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
be transferable to any other person.
   (E)   Expiration. Annual permits issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall expire on December 31 following its date of issuance. Daily permits shall
expire twenty-four (24) hours from time of issue.
   (F)   Possession, Display. Each permittee with a daily boat permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter shall carry a current permit upon their
person while on the lake and produce it upon demand of any city employee
authorized to require the same.
   (G)   Boat Tag. The annual boat permit shall be designated by proper tag on
each side near the stern end of the boat, which must be plainly visible for a
distance of at least one hundred feet (100') from said boat. Such tag shall be
furnished with the permit by the city.
   (H)   Revocation of Permit. Any permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter may be revoked for the violation by the permittee of any applicable
provision of state law, this code or city ordinance, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1995-11, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 8-4-3 VEHICULAR TRAFFIC LAWS.
   (A)   City and State Traffic Law Supplement. These rules are in addition to
and supplement the city and state traffic laws which are in force and which are
incorporated herein and made a part hereof.
   (B)   Parking.
      (1)   General Regulations. Vehicles shall not be left unattended in the
event of the owner’s arrest, nor be parked in violation of posted restrictions,
or in such a manner as to obstruct or impede normal or emergency traffic
movement or the parking of other vehicles, nor create a safety hazard or
endanger any persons, facility or environmental feature. Vehicles so parked are
subject to removal and impoundment at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Time Limits. Parking any vehicle in any designated parking lot or
parking area for a period of time in excess of twenty-four (24) hours or past
the posted closing time without obtaining prior written permission is
prohibited, except vehicles registered to campers covered by camping fees.
      (3)   Parking Unlawfully in Camping Area. Motor vehicles which are found
parked in a campground area and are not registered to a campsite with a valid
and current camping permit plainly displayed on the motor vehicle shall be
considered unlawfully parked.
   (C)   Traffic Routes. No person shall operate any vehicle or ride any
bicycle within any area except on such roads, streets, driveways, trails, paths
and other such thoroughfares which are designated or posted for such purposes.
No person shall drive around any barrier or gate which is across a road or
trail or drive a motor vehicle or bicycle upon such barricaded or closed
thoroughfare. Bicycles and vehicles of any type are prohibited on horse trails.
There shall be no parking of vehicles or trailers on any unpaved areas not
designated for parking.
   (D)   Operator’s State Vehicle License. All vehicles and operators must
possess a valid state motor vehicle license.
   (E)   Vehicle Operation. Vehicles shall be operated only in accordance with
posted restrictions and regulations and applicable federal, state and city
laws.
   (F)   Noise or Smoke. In no area shall any person operate any motor vehicle
that is producing an unusual amount of noise or smoke or in such a way as to
create unnecessary noise or smoke from the motor vehicle.
   (G)   Unnecessary Operation. No person shall operate any motor vehicle
within any area except for necessary, direct transportation to or from his
campsite or to and from a campsite or facility for which permission has been
granted.
   (H)   Right-of-Way. The operator of a motor vehicle, bicycle or horse shall
grant the right-of-way to all pedestrian crossings, streets, lanes or roads
within any area.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1995-11, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 8-4-4 AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   Aircraft Operation. The operation of aircraft on or within the
immediate airspace, that is less than five hundred feet (500') AGL, is
prohibited. This provision shall not be applicable to aircraft engaged on
official business of federal, state or local governments, law enforcement
agencies or aircraft used in emergency rescue.
   (B)   Careless, Negligent or Reckless Operation. No person shall operate any
aircraft while on or above waters or lands of the lakes in a careless,
negligent or reckless manner so as to endanger any person or property.
   (C)   Federal Aviation Rules. This section bestows no authority to deviate
from rules and regulations, prescribed standards of the appropriate state
aeronautical agency or the federal aviation administration including, but not
limited to, regulations and standards concerning pilot certifications or
ratings and airspace requirements.
   (D)   Air Delivery. The air delivery of any person, material or equipment by
parachute, helicopter or other means onto lands and waters of the lakes without
written permission is prohibited except in extreme emergencies threatening
human life.
   (E)   Water Landing. Aircraft utilized for water landing and takeoff are
prohibited at the lakes.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1995-11, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 8-4-5 SWIMMING AND PICNICKING.
   (A)   Swimming Areas. Swimming in the lakes will only be allowed in those
areas designated as swimming areas. Such areas will be marked by buoy line, and
swimming will only be allowed on the beach side of the buoys. Swimming on the
lakeside of the buoys is prohibited.
   (B)   Entering Water from Boat. Swimming from a boat or entering the water
from a boat, except for the purpose of skiing, sailing, windsurfing or scuba
diving, is prohibited.
   (C)   Scuba Diving. Scuba diving is permitted in designated areas only.
   (D)   Nudity. No person shall publicly appear nude or disrobe while in any
area of the lakes except in authorized areas of buildings set aside for that
purpose.
   (E)   Diving. Diving or jumping from bridges, land or other structures which
cross or are adjacent to the lakes is prohibited.
   (F)   Swimmer’s Risk. All swimming shall be at the swimmer’s own risk.
   (G)   Children Swimming. All children age twelve (12) years and younger must
be accompanied by an adult before entering the swimming area. A regulation life
preserver must be worn by children eight (8) years old and younger.
   (H)   Animals in Swimming Areas. No animals will be allowed in the
designated swimming area.
   (I)   Picnic Areas. Picnicking is allowed only in those areas so designated
by the posting of appropriate signs.
   (J)   Day Use. Day use of a park area shall be from seven o’clock (7:00)
A.M. until ten o’clock (10:00) P.M., unless otherwise posted.
   (K)   Cleanliness of Picnic Area. Picnickers shall keep their sites free of
trash and litter during the period of occupancy, shall remove all personal
equipment and clean their site upon departure.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1995-11, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 8-4-6 CAMPING.
   (A)   Camping Area. Camping is allowed in designated areas only.
   (B)   Camping Permit. No person shall camp within the lake lands unless such
person possesses a current and valid camping permit. Persons renting a pavilion
and camping near to it shall pay the daily pavilion rate plus the current
primitive camp rate for each individual vehicle or tent.
   (C)   Campsites. Camping at one or more campsites at the lakes is limited to
a period no longer than fourteen (14) consecutive days.
   (D)   Permanent Camping Facilities. The installation of permanent camping
facilities is prohibited. The digging or leveling of any ground or construction
of any structure is prohibited. This does not prohibit the erection of a tent
in designated areas.
   (E)   Quiet Hours. Quiet hours will be enforced from ten o’clock (10:00)
P.M. until six o’clock (6:00) A.M. Loud noises that may disturb the peace are
prohibited during these hours. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motorcycle, motorbike, television, boom box, radio, or phonographic equipment
after ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. within the camping facilities. It shall be
unlawful for any person to disturb other persons in the camping areas by any
loud or unusual noise, loud language or by any other behavior which causes
disturbance.
   (F)   Juvenile Campers. No person who is a juvenile shall camp in any area
of the lakes except when accompanied by a parent or guardian.
   (G)   Camping Unit Limits. Camping will be limited to no more than two (2)
camping units per campsite. Camping units include tents, lean-tos, teepees, pop
up trailers, travel trailers, fifth wheel trailers and motor homes.
   (H)   Dogs. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit a dog to
be within city property unless such dog is on a leash at all times; provided
however, that dogs used to hunt waterfowl or to accompany trail riders and
which are under the immediate voice control of their handlers shall be exempt
from the leash requirement.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1995-11, passed 12-5-1995; Ord. 1999-04,
passed 7-6-1999)
§ 8-4-7 HUNTING, FISHING AND TRAPPING.
   (A)   Federal, State and Local Laws. All federal, state and local laws
governing hunting or fishing apply on the lakes lands and waters except as
these laws may be modified by the city for purposes of regulating fishing and
wildlife.
   (B)   Trotlines, Juglines, Throwlines, Limblines and Yo-Yos.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         JUGLINE. A vertical line with hooks suspended from a nonmetallic or
nonglass device, drifting free or anchored, left unattended for a means of
taking fish.
         LIMBLINE. A line with hooks attached to a limb, branch or other
natural object left unattended for the means of taking fish.
         THROWLINE. A line attached at one end and weighted at the other with
hooks along its length left unattended for the means of taking fish.
         TROTLINE. A line with hooks placed along its length placed in the
water attached at each end and left unattended for a means of taking fish.
         YO-YO. A line with hooks attached to a self-activating retracting
device left unattended for the means of taking fish.
      (2)   Prohibition. Fishing by trotline, jugline, throwline, limbline or
yo-yo is prohibited in all areas of the lakes.
   (C)   Fishing Areas. No person shall at any time engage in fishing in any
swimming beach waters or in any area of the lakes posted prohibiting fishing.
   (D)   Prohibited Area. No fishing shall be permitted within one hundred feet
(100') of the intake tower or any water supply conduit, or upon any culture
pond now established or which may hereafter be established, by the city.
   (E)   Waist Flotation Device. The waist flotation device commonly known as a
“belly boat” shall be permitted for use when fishing on the lakes except when
the use of such device interferes with the free and proper use of navigable
waters or unnecessarily endangers life or limb of the occupant.
   (F)   Trapping. No person shall trap animals within any area of the lakes.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any net or trap for fishing in the
lakes.
   (G)   Hunting. Hunting is limited to deer and duck during specified seasons
and only in areas as set from year to year.
   (H)   Restricted Fishing in Ski Areas. No fishing will be permitted in
designated ski areas during the hours water skiing is permitted as defined in
subsection
8-4A-22 (C) of this chapter. Fishing is allowed near the dam or shoreline in
ski areas, as long as a boat does not go out further than fifty feet (50') from
the dam or shoreline in ski areas, or as prohibited in subsection (D) of this
section.
   (I)   Bag Limits. Size and bag limits shall be the same size and bag limit
as set forth by state laws and regulations, except as may be modified by the
city to manage and encourage trophy bass fishing. Permittees are responsible to
know the current slot limits for various species of fish.
   (J)   Lures, Baits Restricted. Only artificial lures and live bait, such as
worms, minnows or crawfish or fresh bait, such as fresh and unspoiled or
untainted shrimp, liver, beef, or other fresh meats which would be fit for
human consumption, may be used for fishing bait in the lakes.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4-8 SANITATION.
   (A)   Trash Disposition. No person shall leave, place or dispose of in any
manner: garbage; peelings of vegetables or fruit; waste; refuse; rubbish;
ashes; cans; bottles; wire; paper; cartons; boxes; motor vehicle, bicycle or
wagon parts; furniture; glass; oils; sewage; anything of an unsightly or
unsanitary nature under or upon the lands and waters of the lakes. Trash is to
be placed in receptacles designated for that purpose.
   (B)   Dumping Trash. No person shall bring into the lakes or lake property
any household or commercial garbage, trash, rubbish, debris, dead animals or
litter of any kind for disposal or dumping.
   (C)   Contaminant Dumping. Spilling, pumping or discharge of contaminants,
pollutants or other wastes including, but not limited to, human or animal
waste, petroleum, industrial and commercial products and byproducts on the
lands or waters of the lakes is prohibited.
   (D)   Littering. Campers, picnickers and all other persons using the areas
and facilities of the lakes shall keep their sites free of trash and litter
during the period of occupancy, and shall remove all personal equipment and
clean their sites upon departure.
   (E)   Sewage Discharge. The discharge or placing of sewage, galley waste,
garbage, refuse or pollutants onto the waters and lands of the lakes is
prohibited.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4-9 FIRES.
   (A)   Use of Fires. No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use a fire
other than in places provided or designated for such purposes.
   (B)   Improper Disposal of Burning Material. Improper disposal of lighted
materials, matches or other burning material is prohibited.
   (C)   Unattended Fires. Fires shall not be left unattended and must be
completely extinguished prior to departure.
   (D)   Fuels. Gasoline and other fuels, except that which is contained in
storage tanks of vehicles, watercraft, camping equipment or hand portable
containers designed for such purpose, shall not be carried onto or stored at
the lakes without written permission from the fire chief or his designee.
   (E)   Cutting Wood. Tree branches lying on the ground may be picked up and
cut for firewood to be used at a campsite only. Live trees or standing trees
that are dead shall not be cut nor shall stripping dead branches out of live or
dead trees be allowed. Cutting and removing of wood from lake property is
prohibited. No wood shall be cut from trees standing in the waters of the
lakes.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
ARTICLE A. WATERCRAFT
§ 8-4A-1 ADOPTION OF STATE BOAT AND WATER CODES.
   The provisions of the Oklahoma vessel and motor registration act, 63 O.S. §§
4001 et seq., and the provisions of the Oklahoma vessel and motor excise tax
act, 63 O.S. §§ 4101 et seq., and the provisions of the Oklahoma boating safety
regulation act, 63 O.S. §§ 4200 et seq., and all rules and regulations
promulgated in furtherance thereof are hereby adopted and incorporated herein
by reference, and are enforceable by the city within the city limits as fully
as if set forth at length herein.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-2 OPERATION OF WATERCRAFT.
   Watercraft or other vessels may be operated on the lakes, except in
prohibited or restricted areas, in accordance with posted restrictions,
including buoys, signs or markers as regulated by enforcement personnel of the
lakes. Speed limits at night or under adverse weather conditions shall not
exceed fifteen (15) knots.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-3 REGISTRATION; LICENSING; ANNUAL TAX DECAL.
   (A)   Registration Requirements. All watercraft operated on the waters of
the lakes shall be numbered in accordance with the state statutes and
regulations. Letters and numbers shall be three inches (3") to four inches (4")
in height with one-half inch (1/2") to three-fourths inch (3/4") strokes, of
contrasting color to the boat. Letters and numbers must be spaced one-half inch
(1/2") to three-fourths inch (3/4") and within an area of thirty inches (30")
along each side of the bow. The numbers shall be maintained in a legible
condition and easily read at a distance of one hundred feet (100').
   (B)   Current Registration on Watercraft. All watercraft shall possess and
maintain on board a current registration whenever the watercraft is operated on
the lakes, except: 1) rental watercraft may keep a rental agreement in lieu of
registration; 2) in the case of new watercraft or transfer of ownership of a
watercraft, a temporary registration or photocopied registration will be
acceptable.
   (C)   Annual Tax Decal. All watercraft shall possess and display the annual
tax decal along with the registration numbers on the watercraft. The annual tax
decal shall be due on July 1 each year and shall become delinquent on August 1
thereafter.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-4 WATERCRAFT CAPACITY.
   (A)   Capacity Plate Requirements. All watercraft less than twenty feet
(20') in length, manufactured, or imported into this state after July 1, 1974,
designed to carry two (2) or more persons, and propelled by machinery as its
principal source of power shall be in compliance with United States coast guard
safety standards and horsepower limits of the motor and have permanently
affixed a capacity plate. The capacity plate shall bear the following
information:
      (1)   The total weight of persons, motor, gear and other articles placed
aboard which the vessel is capable of carrying with safety under normal
conditions.
      (2)   The recommended number of persons commensurate with the weight
capacity of the watercraft and the presumed weight in pounds of each such
person, not to be presumed to be less than one hundred fifty (150) pounds.
      (3)   The maximum horsepower limits of the outboard motor within which
the vessel is designed to and intended to accommodate.
   (B)   Capacity Limits. No person shall use or operate a watercraft in excess
of the loading or horsepower limits as established by the United States coast
guard safety standards on the capacity plate, and any violation thereof is
prima facie evidence of reckless operation.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-5 EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION OF VESSEL.
   (A)   Fire Extinguishers. Every vessel using flammable liquid as fuel shall
be equipped with such number, size, and type of United States coast guard
approved fire extinguisher as prescribed in the rules of the state department
of public safety. Such extinguisher shall be capable of promptly and
effectively extinguishing burning fuel. Fire extinguishers shall be at all
times kept in condition for immediate and effective use and shall be so placed
and secured to the vessel as to be readily accessible.
   (B)   Ventilation. Every vessel, except open vessels, using any liquid as
fuel shall be provided with such means as may be prescribed by the United
States coast guard for properly and efficiently ventilating the bilges of the
motor and fuel tank compartments so as to remove any explosive or inflammable
gases.
   (C)   Mufflers. No person shall operate upon the waters of the lakes any
vessel or motor which is not equipped with a muffler, underwater exhaust, or
other device capable of adequately muffling the sound of the motor’s exhaust.
ADEQUATE MUFFLING, as used herein, shall mean that the motor’s exhaust is at
all times muffled or suppressed so as not to create excessive or unusual noise
which would annoy the peace and tranquility of persons of ordinary senses. The
use of cutouts, removal of mufflers or muffler baffles, cutting or punching of
holes in mufflers or otherwise modifying the original muffler or muffling
system installed by the manufacturer or any subsequent muffler or muffling
system so as to increase or modify the noise level is prohibited. This
subsection shall not apply to vessels in the act of participating in a
sanctioned event.
   (D)   Flame Arresters. Every vessel shall have the carburetor or carburetors
of every motor therein, except outboard motors, using any liquid as fuel,
equipped with a United States coast guard or UL or SAE approved backfire flame
arrestor or other appropriate attachment, as prescribed by the rules of the
state department of public safety.
   (E)   Whistle and Horn. Every vessel shall be provided with an efficient
whistle or other sound producing mechanical appliance; provided however, no
vessel, except for emergency and law enforcement vessels, shall be equipped
with a siren.
   (F)   Length Limit. All watercraft will be limited to a length not to exceed
twenty-six feet (26') and horsepower limits set by manufacturer’s rating of the
watercraft.
   (G)   Lighting. Every vessel in all weather between the hours from sunset to
sunrise shall carry and exhibit the lights prescribed by the United States
coast guard when under way, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Every vessel of classes A and 1 shall carry:
         (a)   A bright white light aft to show all around the horizon; and
         (b)   A combined lantern in the forepart of the vessel and lower than
the white light aft, showing green to starboard and red to port.
      (2)   Vessels of all classes when propelled by sail alone shall carry,
ready at hand, a lantern or flashlight showing a white light which shall be
exhibited in sufficient time to avert collision.
      (3)   When propelled by sail and motor, any vessel shall carry the lights
required by this section for a vessel propelled by motor only.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 2006-03, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 8-4A-6 RECKLESS OPERATION; OPERATION UNDER INFLUENCE.
   (A)   Reckless or Negligent Operation. No person shall operate or give
permission to operate any vessel or manipulate or give permission to manipulate
any parasails, waterskis, surfboard, or similar device in a reckless or
negligent manner so as to endanger the life or property of any person.
   (B)   Operation Under Influence. No person shall operate or give permission
to operate any vessel on any waters of this state, except privately owned
waters, while the operator is under the influence of alcohol or any substance
included in the uniform controlled dangerous substances act (63 O.S. §§ 2-101
et seq.).
   (C)   Approach of Authorized Emergency Vessel. Upon the immediate approach
of an authorized emergency vessel making use of an audible or a visual signal
or a combination thereof, the operator of every other vessel shall immediately
stop his or her vessel whenever or wherever practical or otherwise yield the
right-of-way until such authorized emergency vessel has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a duly authorized peace officer of this state.
   (D)   Overloading Vessel. No person shall overload or give permission to
overload a vessel with persons or gear so as to exceed the posted capacity
plate or to exceed United States coast guard standards.
   (E)   Violation, Negligent Act. Any violation of the provisions of this
section shall constitute a negligent act in the operation of the vessel or
motor or parasails.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-7 CARE AND PRUDENT SPEED.
   (A)   Prudent Speed.
      (1)   Any person who operates or gives permission to operate a vessel on
any waters of the lakes shall operate the same at a careful and prudent speed
not greater than nor less than is reasonable or proper, having due regard to
other vessels, waterskiers, swimmers, sanctioned events, restrictive and
informational markers or buoys, existing wind conditions, waves, wakes or other
weather conditions, then existing.
      (2)   No person shall operate a watercraft on the waters of the lakes at
a speed greater or less than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing, considering among other things the condition or type of the
watercraft, weather, visibility, presence of other watercraft or vessels,
presence of buoys or of other obstructions, proximity to the shoreline or
restricted areas, and depth of water.
   (B)   Wake Zone. No person shall operate or give permission to operate a
vessel in a wake zone at a speed which shows no regard for the existence of
actual or potential hazards and obstacles, or in such a manner as to endanger
the life, limb or property of any other person, or in such a manner as to
create a wake. For the purpose of this title, NO WAKE ZONE means any area
posted with buoys or within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any boat ramp,
dock, pier, or anchored or moored vessel.
   (C)   Violation, Careless Act. Any violation of the provisions of this
section shall constitute a careless act in the operation of the vessel.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-8 RIDING IN OR ON WATERCRAFT.
   (A)   Riding and Standing Restrictions. No person shall sit or ride on the
sides of a vessel, a covered bow or the back of any seat of a vessel, or stand
in a vessel while under way at any speed greater than idle or trolling speed;
provided however, the operator of such vessel may stand if said vessel is
specifically designed to be operated from a standing position.
   (B)   Operator Responsibility. No operator shall allow any person to occupy
the front or back deck of any vessel while under way at any speed greater than
idle or trolling speed, nor any structure above the main deck without adequate
safety rails or lines so constructed as to prevent such person from slipping or
falling overboard.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-9 PROCEDURE UPON COLLISION, ACCIDENT OR OTHER CASUALTY.
   (A)   Duties of Operator.
      (1)   The operator and/or passenger of a vessel involved in a collision,
accident, or other casualty shall render to other persons involved in the
collision, accident, or other casualty reasonable assistance as may be
necessary and practicable and shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, give notice of such accident to the local police department if
such accident occurs within a municipality, or to the office of the county
sheriff or nearest state highway patrol headquarters after complying with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   The operator of a vessel involved in a collision, accident, or
other casualty shall give his name, address, and identification of his vessel,
in writing, to any person injured in the collision, accident, or other casualty
and to the owner of any property damaged in the collision, accident or other
casualty.
   (B)   File Accident Report with State. If a collision, accident, or other
casualty results in death or injury to a person or damage to property in excess
of five hundred dollars ($500.00), the operator of the vessel involved in the
collision, accident, or other casualty shall file with the state department of
public safety a full description of the collision, accident, or other casualty,
and such information as the department may require.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-10 RULES OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Approaching Head On. When two (2) watercraft are approaching each
other “head on” or nearly so (so as to involve risk of collision) each
watercraft shall bear to the right and pass the other watercraft on its left
side.
   (B)   Approaching at Right Angles. When two (2) boats approach each other
obliquely, or at right angles, the watercraft approaching on the right has the
right-of-way.
   (C)   Overtaking Another Motorcraft. When a motorcraft may overtake another
on either side but shall grant right-of-way to the overtaken boat, the vessel
being overtaken shall hold its course and speed.
   (D)   Sailing Vessel Right-of-Way. When a motorboat and a sailing vessel are
proceeding in such direction as to involve risk of collision, the motorized
vessel shall keep out of the way of the sailing vessel.
   (E)   Passing Watercraft at Anchor. When a watercraft which is under way
passes by a watercraft which is at anchor, the watercraft moving shall maintain
a minimum distance of one hundred fifty feet (150') and exercise due care with
regard to the wake being created.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-11 WATERCRAFT NOT IN USE.
   All watercraft when not in actual use shall be removed from the waters of
the lakes unless temporarily (15 minutes or less) moored at the designated
facilities provided or secured pursuant to section
8-4A-16 of this article.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-12 MOORING FACILITIES.
   The placement of floating or stationary mooring facilities on, adjacent to,
or interfering with, a buoy, channel marker or other navigational aid is
prohibited.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-13 LAUNCHING OR LOADING OF WATERCRAFT.
   No person shall launch or load any watercraft in any area of the lakes
except at those locations so designated.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-14 UNATTENDED WATERCRAFT.
   Leaving any watercraft unattended or outside the designated mooring facility
in violation of posted restriction is prohibited and any watercraft so left may
be impounded.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-15 DRIVERS USING MECHANICAL DIVING OR BREATHING DEVICE.
   (A)   Placing Buoy and Flag at Points of Submergence. Any person diving or
submerging in a body of water with the aid of any mechanical diving or
breathing device or suit shall place a buoy with a flag in the water at or near
the point of submergence or fly a flag from a vessel indicating divers are
present, in the following manner:
      (1)   Either the nationally recognized diver’s flag or alpha flag may be
flown;
      (2)   When flown from a vessel, at least one flag shall be flown not less
than one meter above the highest point of the vessel and shall be visible from
a three hundred sixty (360) degree circle;
      (3)   The buoy, flag or flags shall be in place only while actual diving
operations are in progress;
      (4)   No diving buoys may be closer than three hundred (300) yards to
each other or closer than three hundred (300) yards to any dock, functional
boat ramp or designated swimming area; and
      (5)   The flag or flags shall be in good condition and legible, and the
flag shall be in the extended position so as to be visible to any other vessel.
   (B)   Operating Motorboat in Area of Diver’s Flag. It shall be unlawful for
any person to operate a motor driven boat within one hundred fifty feet (150')
of a buoy except while engaged in the rescue of a person in such area.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-16 WATERCRAFT SECURITY AT NIGHT.
   No operator shall drift, anchor, dock, moor, tie up or beach a watercraft on
lands or waters of the lakes and sleep thereon at night except those watercraft
in association of campers within a designated camping area.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-17 WATERCRAFT USER FEE.
   All watercraft shall display or possess a current lakes user fee permit in
conjunction with the state registration numbers and annual tax decal. Annual
watercraft permits shall be effective for a calendar year.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-18 WATERCRAFT SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   All watercraft shall comply with the Oklahoma boating safety act (63 O.S. §§
4200 et seq.).
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-19 FLOTATION DEVICES.
   (A)   Use of Personal Flotation Devices.
      (1)   The operator of a vessel less than twenty-six feet (26') in length,
while under way, shall require each passenger who is twelve (12) years of age
or younger to wear a personal flotation device.
      (2)   Any person operating or manipulating a personal watercraft,
waterskis, a sailboard or a similar device shall wear a personal flotation
device approved and designed for the activity in which the person is engaged.
   (B)   Condition, Size of Devices.
      (1)   Each personal flotation device shall be in good serviceable
condition, of the type prescribed by the United States coast guard and of a
size suitable to the person who is wearing it.
      (2)   A ski belt is not a United States coast guard approved personal
flotation device.
   (C)   Devices Kept on Board.
      (1)   Every vessel shall be required to carry:
         (a)   At least one wearable personal flotation device for each person
on board, so placed as to be readily accessible and of a size suitable to the
person who is or will be wearing it; and
         (b)   At least one type IV (throwable) personal floatation device on
board, so placed as to be readily accessible.
      (2)   All lifesaving devices shall be in good and serviceable condition.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-20 AIRBORNE DEVICE ON WATERCRAFT.
   While being towed by a watercraft or motor vehicle, no person shall have any
airfoil or balloon device in hand or affixed to a person for the purpose of
becoming airborne over the lands or waters of the lakes unless written
permission has first been obtained from the city manager or his designee,
thirty (30) days in advance.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-21 PERSONAL WATERCRAFT.
   (A)   Operation in Designated Area. No person shall operate a boat within
the area of the lakes which has been designated personal watercraft only,
marked as “Jet Skis Only”.
   (B)   Restrictions. In addition to those rules and regulations established
by this chapter and state law concerning the operation of watercraft on the
waters of the lakes, operators of personal watercraft shall be subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   A person may not operate or give permission to operate any personal
watercraft in a reckless, negligent or careless manner so as to endanger life,
limb or property of any person including the operator of such watercraft.
      (2)   A person may not operate or give permission to operate a personal
watercraft without a United States coast guard approved lifesaving device (PFD)
of the proper size and type, either a type I, II, III, or V; preferably a type
III with an impact rating of at least thirty-five (35) miles per hour, which
shall be worn while such craft is in operation.
      (3)   A person may not operate or give permission to operate a personal
watercraft within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any person, other vessel,
dock, buoy, bridge, or any other prohibitive structure at a speed greater than
“idle” or slow steerageway speed.
      (4)   A person may not operate or give permission to operate a personal
watercraft as a means for towing a waterskier, surfboard, water tow, or similar
device, unless the watercraft is designed and equipped for such towing by the
manufacturer. The personal watercraft must meet all required state boating laws
for skiing and towing. The owner of a personal watercraft must submit the
vessel for a one time inspection by the chief ranger or his assistant, to
ensure it is designed and equipped by the manufacturer for towing. Upon
approval by the chief ranger or his assistant, a special sticker will be placed
on the vessel to designate it has met the requirements for towing. An
inspection fee will be as fixed by city council resolution.
      (5)   A person may not operate a personal watercraft on the waters of the
lakes, unless it is equipped with a self-circling device, or a lanyard type
engine cutoff switch.
      (6)   A person may not operate a personal watercraft equipped by the
manufacturer with a lanyard type engine cutoff switch, unless the lanyard is
operational and attached to the operator, operator’s clothing, or a personal
flotation device worn by the operator.
      (7)   A person may not operate or give permission to operate a personal
watercraft equipped by the manufacturer with a self-circling device, if the
self-circling device or engine throttle has been altered in any way that would
prohibit the self-circling device from operating in its intended manner.
      (8)   A person may not operate or give permission to operate a personal
watercraft between sunset and sunrise. For the purpose of this section, times
of sunrise and sunset for a given day shall be the same as those officially
designated by the national weather service.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 2001-03, passed 7-3-2001)
§ 8-4A-22 WATERSKIING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the term WATERSKIING
shall mean the activity of being propelled along the water upon devices known
as skis and being at the same time towed by some type of boat and shall include
the use of surfboards, ski bikes, or any other device which may be used to
sustain any person upon the water while being towed by a motorboat.
   (B)   Observation of Towed Person. No person shall operate or give
permission to operate a vessel on any waters of the lakes for towing a person
or persons using parasails or on waterskis, a surfboard, or similar device
unless there is in such vessel a person who is at least eight (8) years old,
and who, in addition to the operator, is in a position to observe the progress
of the person or persons being towed, or unless an efficient wide angle convex
rear view mirror has been installed on such vessel in such manner as to permit
the person operating said vessel to face the direction of travel and be in a
position to observe the progress of the person or persons being towed.
   (C)   Hours. No person shall operate or give permission to operate a vessel
on any waters of the lakes towing a person or persons using parasails or on
waterskis, a surfboard, a sailboard or similar device, nor shall any person
engage in parasailing, waterskiing, surfboarding, sailboarding or similar
activities at any time between the hours of sunset and sunrise or at such time
visibility due to other existing conditions is obscured so as to endanger life
or property.
   (D)   Towing Water Skier. No person shall operate or give permission to
operate or manipulate any vessel, tow rope or other device by which the
direction or location of parasails, waterskis, a surfboard, or similar device
may be affected or controlled in such a way as to cause the parasails,
waterskis, surfboard, or similar device, or any person thereon, to collide with
or strike against any object or person.
   (E)   Attending Waterskier. No person shall operate a vessel on the waters
of the lakes while towing a person on waterskis, a surfboard or similar
activity and leave the skier unattended in the waters in such a manner as to
endanger the skier or unnecessarily interfere with the free and proper use of
the navigable waters by other vessels therein.
   (F)   Towing Skiers, Direction of Travel. All watercraft towing skiers upon
the waters of the lakes shall move generally in a counterclockwise direction.
   (G)   Area Restricted. No person shall engage in waterskiing except in the
area outlined for such activity by the official lake officer employed by the
city.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1995-11, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 8-4A-23 JET SKIS, SKI BIKES OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   Licensing and Registration; Regulations. All jet skis, ski bikes or
similar devices must be registered with the state of Oklahoma and licensed by
the city. All operators of such devices must wear United States coast guard
life preservers at all times, and operators of such equipment must conform to
the water rules, regulations and safety laws, as apply to the operation of
boats on the lakes.
   (B)   Restricted Areas for Jet Skis. No person may operate a jet ski device
on the waters of the lakes except in those areas specifically designated for
such use.
   (C)   Designated Areas. Jet skis, ski bikes or similar devices operated in
areas designated “no wake” shall not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-24 RENTAL OF PRIVATE BOATS PROHIBITED.
   Owners of private boats of all types shall not be permitted to rent their
boats for use on the lakes or to collect fares or to take donations for the use
of the same.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-25 INEXPERIENCED BOAT OPERATORS.
   Persons inexperienced in boat operation or persons under the age of fifteen
(15) years shall not operate a boat which is engaged in activity skiing upon
the lakes, unless accompanied by an adult experienced in boat operations.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-26 ABANDONMENT OF VESSEL; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Abandonment Prohibited; Authority to Remove; Notice. It shall be
unlawful to abandon a vessel on the waters of this state or other public
property. Any law enforcement officer of the city shall deem a vessel abandoned
and shall have authority to remove or direct the removal of a vessel when found
upon any portion of the lakes or other public property, if, after a period of
forty-eight (48) hours, there is no evidence of an apparent owner who intends
to remove the vessel. Any law enforcement officer, prior to removing such
vessel, shall attempt to notify the owner of such vessel if the vessel has an
identification number registered in this state or if the name and address of
the owner is attached to such vessel.
   (B)   Hazardous Condition; Immediate Removal. If such officer has reasonable
cause to believe a vessel has been abandoned in a location which would be
hazardous to the free flow of traffic or would be highly susceptible to damage
from vandalism or other harm, he shall have authority to remove or direct the
removal of the vessel immediately. At the time of ordering the removal of an
abandoned vessel, the authorizing officer shall also determine the sale value
of the vessel and certify that amount on the removal order.
   (C)   Circumstances Warranting Removal.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer of the city is hereby authorized to
cause to be removed any vessel found upon the lakes or any other public
property when:
         (a)   Report has been made that such vessel has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
         (b)   The officer has reason to believe the vessel has been abandoned
as defined in this section;
         (c)   The person operating or in control of such vessel is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested or summoned before a proper magistrate without unnecessary
delay;
         (d)   At the scene of an accident, when the owner or operator is not
in a position to take charge of his vessel and direct or request proper
removal; or
         (e)   When a vessel and/or motor registration is thirty (30) days past
the date of expiration.
      (2)   Such officer may ensure the safe removal of said vessel by use of a
trailer.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4A-27 VIOLATIONS COMPLAINT; NOTICE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Issuance of Citation. Whenever a person is halted by any duly
authorized law enforcement officer for any violation of this chapter, or 63
O.S. chapters 70, 71 or 72, which shall be punishable as a misdemeanor, and is
not taken before a magistrate as hereinbefore required or permitted, the
officer shall prepare in quadruplicate using the “Oklahoma Uniform Violations
Complaint”, a written notice to appear in court, such notices to appear to be
serially numbered containing the name and address of the person, the state
registration number of his vessel, if any, the offense charged, the time and
place when and where the person shall appear in court, and such other pertinent
information as may be necessary.
   (B)   Time for Appearance. The time specified in the notice to appear must
be at least five (5) calendar days after the alleged violation unless the
person charged with the violation shall demand an earlier hearing.
   (C)   Signing of Citation. The person charged with the violation may give
his written promise to appear in court by signing the written notice to appear
prepared by the officer, in which event the officer shall deliver a copy of the
notice to appear in person, and thereupon the officer shall not take the person
into physical custody for the violation.
   (D)   Minor in Violation. If the person charged with the violation is a
minor, then the citing officer shall ascertain from the minor the name and
address of his parents or legal guardian, and said officer shall cause a copy
of the “violation” to be mailed to the address of the parents or legal
guardian, within three (3) calendar days after the date of violation.
   (E)   City Law Enforcement Officials. Except for felony violations, any duly
authorized law enforcement officer of the city at the scene of a boating
accident may issue a written notice to appear to the operator of a vessel
involved in the accident when, based upon personal investigation, the officer
has reasonable and probable grounds to believe that the person has committed an
offense in connection with the accident.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
ARTICLE B. RESTRICTIONS
§ 8-4B-1 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Physical Restraint. No person shall bring or allow dogs, cats, or
other pets or animals into any area of the lakes unless penned, caged, on a
leash under six feet (6') in length or otherwise physically restrained.
   (B)   Animal Waste. Persons bringing or allowing pets in designated public
areas shall be responsible for proper removal and disposal in sanitary
facilities of any waste produced by these animals.
   (C)   Livestock.
      (1)   Bringing into Area. No person shall bring or allow horses, cattle
or other livestock in camping, picnicking, swimming or other recreation areas
except in those areas designated for this use.
      (2)   Use of Lands and Water. Ranging, grazing, watering or allowing
livestock on the lakes lands and waters is prohibited; provided however, horses
being then used for trail rides shall be permitted to water and graze while in
the immediate control of their handlers.
   (D)   Impoundment. Unclaimed or unattended animals are subject to immediate
impoundment and removal in accordance with city ordinances and an impoundment
fee levied. This fee shall be paid before the impounded animal is returned to
its owner.
   (E)   Field Trial or Game Dogs. Training or working field trial or game dogs
under the control of a handler in a designated area shall not require a leash
while engaged in either a training or field trial activity.
   (F)   Injuring or Trapping; Fishing; Hunting. No person shall molest, hunt,
disturb, injure, trap, take, net, poison, harm or kill any kind of animal or
fish, mar or rifle the nest of any bird or the den, nest or abode of any animal
or so attempt; except fish may be taken in accordance with state fishing laws
and regulations and local city regulations; and hunting for deer and duck in
season in designated areas, as permitted by the city.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1999-04, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 8-4B-2 HOURS OF USE.
   Lake lands and waters thereof will generally be open for use twenty-four
(24) hours per day from April 1 to September 30. From October 1 to March 31,
hours of use will be as established and posted from year to year to accommodate
winter activities.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-3 CLOSE OR RESTRICT PARK USE.
   The city manager or a designee may close or restrict the use of the lakes or
any portion thereof when necessitated by reason of public health, public
safety, maintenance or other reasons in the public interest.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-4 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   Entering or using the lakes in a manner which is contrary to the schedule of
visiting hours and closures is restricted.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-5 LOITERING AT NIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter on lake properties at any time
between sunset and sunrise.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-6 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   All minors are prohibited from entering upon or remaining upon municipally
owned land in the vicinity of the lakes after ten o’clock (10:00) P.M., unless
accompanied by a parent or guardian.
(Ord. 1995-11, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 8-4B-7 ASSUMPTION OF RISK.
   All persons, whether adult or minor, participating in water sports at the
lakes shall do so at their own risk.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-8 FIREARMS, EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Possession Prohibited. The possession of loaded firearms, ammunition,
loaded projectile firing devices, bow and arrows, crossbows, explosives or
explosive devices of any kind, including fireworks, is prohibited.
   (B)   Exceptions to Prohibited Possession. Possession of loaded firearms,
ammunition, loaded projectile firing devices, bow and arrows, crossbows,
explosives or explosive devices of any kind including fireworks is permitted
when:
      (1)   Possession of any of the above items is otherwise permitted by
state law which preempts local law pursuant to 21 O.S. § 1289.4.
      (2)   Any of the above is in the possession of federal, state or local
law enforcement officers.
      (3)   Approved archery equipment or shotguns are being used for hunting
as permitted under subsection
8-4-7(A) of this chapter and subsection
8-4B-1(F) of this article with such devices being unloaded when transported to,
from or between designated hunting sites.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-14-2015)
§ 8-4B-9 INJURING OR DEFACING PROPERTY.
   (A)   Destruction. No person shall disturb, destroy, remove, deface or
injure any property at the lakes including, but not limited to, such property
as buildings, structures or signs.
   (B)   Defacing. No person shall cut, carve, paint, mark, paste, or attach on
any tree, fence, wall, building, monument or other property at the lakes, any
bill, advertisement or inscription.
   (C)   Cutting Foliage. No person shall willfully or negligently pick, dig
up, cut, mutilate, destroy, injure, disturb, move, molest, burn or carry away
any tree or plant or portion thereof including, but not limited to, flowers,
foliage, berries, nuts, fruit, grass, turf, humus, shrubs, vines, cones,
deadwood, or any other thing above or below the ground, except as allowed in
subsection
8-4-9 (E) of this chapter.
   (D)   Disturbing Earth. No person shall destroy, disturb, deface, mutilate
or remove earth, sand, gravel, oil, minerals, rocks, bank protection or riprap
features except when expressly authorized by state law and city ordinances.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-10 ARCHAEOLOGICAL FINDS.
   No person shall remove, injure, disfigure, deface or destroy any object of
paleontological, archaeological or historic interest or value.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-11 GLASS CONTAINERS.
   No glass beverage containers will be allowed upon swimming areas.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-12 UNATTENDED OR ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unattended Personal Property. Personal property of any kind shall not
be left unattended, stored or abandoned upon lands and waters of the lakes.
After a period of twenty-four (24) hours, or at any time after the posted
closure hour in a public use area, unattended personal property shall be
presumed to be abandoned and may be impounded and stored with a reasonable
impoundment fee assessed. Such fee shall be paid before the impounded property
is returned to its owner.
   (B)   Abandonment Presumed. Personal property placed on public lands or
waters for more than twenty-four (24) hours without written permission of the
city manager or his designee shall be presumed to have been abandoned and acted
upon accordingly.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-13 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Possession of Liquor and Beer. No person shall possess, consume, or
display any intoxicating alcoholic beverages or low point beer on any lake
property owned and/or operated by the city; provided, however, the city council
of the city shall be authorized to waive this prohibition for specific events,
or types of events, upon proper application and under such conditions as the
council deems appropriate for such event, or types of events.
   (B)   Under Influence. No person shall be under the influence of any
intoxicating alcoholic beverages or low point beer or any other drugs,
stimulants, or depressants while on any lake property owned and/or operated by
the city.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-8-2011)
§ 8-4B-14 SOLICITATION OF BUSINESS.
   The engaging in or solicitation of business on lake property without the
express authorization of the city council is prohibited.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-15 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   Special events including, but not limited to, water carnivals, boat
regattas, music festivals, fishing tournaments or other special recreation
programs are prohibited unless authorization has been granted by the city
council.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 8-4B-16 ACCESS TO LAKE LANDS.
   Access to lake lands at other than designated access locations is
prohibited. No access is allowed along any fence line abutting private property
around lake lands. Access to any lake property other than designated access
locations shall be considered illegal trespass.
(Ord. 1994-06, passed 11-1-1994)
CHAPTER 5: SHOOTING RANGE
Section
   
8-5-1   Designation and Use
   
8-5-2   Months and Hours of Operation
   
8-5-3   Range Use Requirements; Fee; Insurance
   
8-5-4   Certified Person and Supervisors
   
8-5-5   Firearms Restrictions
   
8-5-6   Range Targets
   
8-5-7   Alcoholic Beverages
   
8-5-8   Range Maintenance
   
8-5-9   Trespassing
   
8-5-10   Violations of Rules, Regulations and Safety
§ 8-5-1 DESIGNATION AND USE.
   Also known as “the range”, this refers to land and facilities thereon
designated by the city council for scheduled and supervised, noncommercial,
firearms target practice by groups such as, but not limited to: police and
other government agencies, Scouting America, Girl Scouts, Veterans of Foreign
Wars, American Legion, incorporated shooting clubs, and other nonprofit groups
and associations that provide education and recreation services to the general
public.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-2 MONTHS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The range will be available only for scheduled use as approved by the police
department. The range may be closed as needed due to weather conditions,
maintenance needs, city approved holidays and for any reason necessary to
safeguard the public and/or the public lands and facilities.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-3 RANGE USE REQUIREMENTS; FEE; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Application for Use; Fee. The city may approve or deny any application
for range use. Groups desiring to use the range must make application to the
city police department and, if granted approval, pay any use fees prior to
using the range.
   (B)   Scheduling. The range can be scheduled for onetime use or multiple
days or months.
   (C)   Use Restricted to Members of Groups. All participants in a shooting
event must be members of the group approved to use the range. Individuals will
not be allowed to use the range.
   (D)   Liability Insurance. Groups will be required to furnish evidence of
liability insurance naming the city as additional insured in an amount as
established by the city.
   (E)   Waiver of Liability. Each group and each individual participant must
provide a signed waiver of liability in a form acceptable to the city. Shooters
under the age of eighteen (18) will be required to have the waiver signed by a
parent or legal guardian.
   (F)   Use by Police Officers, Approval. Certified police officers using the
range, on or off duty, must have approval of their employing agency in addition
to the approval obtained from the police department.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-4 CERTIFIED PERSON AND SUPERVISORS.
   Groups using the range must have a minimum of one person present at all
times during range use who holds a current certification through CLEET or the
National Rifle Association (NRA) or another recognized federal or state
firearms training organization acceptable to the city, to give instruction in
the safe handling and shooting of same. Additional supervision is required for
events involving minors at the minimum ratio of one adult, in addition to the
qualified person, for each five (5) shooters or increment thereof under the age
of eighteen (18) years.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-5 FIREARMS RESTRICTIONS.
   Firearms approved in the application for range use are the only firearms
allowed to be used on the range during a shooting event. Exotic firearms, such
as, but not limited to, fully automatic weapons shall not be used except under
special approval of the police department.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-6 RANGE TARGETS.
   All firearms must be fired at targets typically used for handgun and rifle
practice, sighting in and contests. Acceptable targets are paper or cardboard
bull’s eye or other diagrams. Shooting glass bottles, tin cans, stones,
mannequins, fruit, target frames, range facilities, vehicles, clay pigeons,
signs, wild game, birds, trees, or other living things, is not allowed.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-7 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Consuming alcoholic beverages or being present after having consumed
alcoholic beverages is strictly forbidden on the range at any time.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-8 RANGE MAINTENANCE.
   The group using the range is responsible to maintain range land and
facilities by removing targets and frames, picking up paper, debris, and shell
casings and restoring the range site to the condition found prior to the
shooting event.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-9 TRESPASSING.
   Any person entering the range or shooting on the range without permission
shall be guilty of criminal trespass and be subject to arrest and prosecution.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
§ 8-5-10 VIOLATIONS OF RULES, REGULATIONS AND SAFETY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and, in addition thereto, may be temporarily barred from
range use at the discretion of the police chief or permanently barred from
range use on recommendation of the police chief and approval of the city
manager.
(Ord. 1999-06, passed 12-7-1999)
CHAPTER 6: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
8-6-1   Definitions
   
8-6-2   Prohibited Conduct
   
8-6-3   Required Signs
   
8-6-4   Penalties and Enforcement
Article A. Youth Access to Tobacco Products
   
8-6A-1   Definitions
   
8-6A-2   Prohibited Conduct
   
8-6A-3   Distribution of Tobacco Product and Vapor Product Samples
   
8-6A-4   Public Access to Displayed Tobacco, Nicotine or Vapor Products
   
8-6A-5   Enforcement
§ 8-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDOOR AREA. Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the public,
at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. INDOOR AREA
includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms,
employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees,
as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or
totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or
closed windows, stairways, or the like.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. All buildings, Indoor Areas, and Outdoor Areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the City, including but not limited to
vehicles and equipment owned by the municipality.
   OUTDOOR AREA. Any area that is not an Indoor Area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
   SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. Vapor Product shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 8-6-2 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person is allowed to Smoke Tobacco Products in any places in which
Smoking Tobacco Products is prohibited by Oklahoma state law. (See 63 O.S. § 1-
1523.)
   (B)   No person is allowed to Smoke or use Tobacco Products and/or Vapor
Products on any Municipal Property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and
recreational areas.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any person or entity from
prohibiting Smoking or the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products on their
property, even if the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is not
otherwise prohibited in that area.
   (D)   No person or entity shall knowingly permit Smoking or the use of
Tobacco Products or Vapor Products in an area that is under their control, if
the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is prohibited by law in that
area.
   (E)   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles,
such as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person
or entity and in which Smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of
ash receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of Tobacco
Products or Vapor Products in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   No person shall dispose of Smoking, Tobacco Product, or Vapor Product
waste within an area in which Smoking and the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor
Products is prohibited.
   (G)   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 8-6-3 REQUIRED SIGNS.
   (A)   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which Smoking and the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is prohibited
by this chapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each
point of entry to the area, and in prominent locations within the area.
   (B)   For restrictions on Smoking and the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor
Products in Indoor Areas, the sign or decal shall be at least four inches by
two inches in size and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is
prohibited or that a tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on
the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products in Outdoor Areas, signs shall be
weather-resistant, at least fifteen inches by fifteen inches in size, with
lettering of at least one inch, and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco
use is prohibited or that a tobacco-free environment is provided.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the City Manager or his/her designee
shall be responsible for the posting of signs on Municipal Property, both
indoor and outdoor.
   (D)   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of Smoking or the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor
Products in violation of any other provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 8-6-4 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of The City of
Chandler. In addition, any peace officer or code enforcement official may
enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly violates this chapter shall be punished by a
citation and fine of not less than $25.00 and not more than $100.00.
   (C)   The possession of a lighted Tobacco Product in violation of this
chapter is a nuisance.
   (D)   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition
to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   (E)   Each instance of Tobacco Product or Vapor Product use in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
   (F)   The use of a Vapor Product in violation of this chapter is a nuisance.
   (G)   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of
any provision of this chapter regarding Tobacco Product or Vapor Product use
shall also constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (H)   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other
law, any violation of this chapter regarding Tobacco Product or Vapor Product
use may be remedied by the direction of the City Council, including, but not
limited to, initiation of administrative or judicial nuisance abatement
proceedings, criminal code enforcement proceedings, and suits for injunctive
relief.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-8-2023)
ARTICLE A. YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO PRODUCTS
§ 8-6A-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any product that contains nicotine extracted or isolated
from plants, vegetables, fruit, herbs, weeds, genetically modified organic
matter, or that is synthetic in origin and is intended for human consumption;
provided, however, this term shall not include products approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for smoking cessation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
twenty-one (21) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other
likeness of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE. A tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product distributed to
members of the public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver’s license or other
government-issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s license or other government-issued photo identification.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Noncombustible products, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, which can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCTS shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo or electronic device. VAPOR PRODUCTS do
not include any products regulated by the United States Food and Drug
Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, being 21
U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 8-6A-2 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product to another person who is
under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco
product, nicotine product or vapor product on behalf of any such person. It
shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to
handle tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor products when required in
performance of the employee’s duties.
   (B)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than twenty-one
(21) years of age.
      If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years of
age, the failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a
violation of this subsection.
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of subsection (A) or (B) of this section is an
offense against the City of Chandler. Upon conviction of any such offense, the
violator shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense;
         (b)   Not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second
offense within a two-year period following the first offense;
         (c)   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for the third
offense within a two-year period following the first offense. In addition to
any other penalty, the store’s license to sell tobacco products or nicotine
products or the store’s sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly
engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental may be suspended for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days,
or
         (d)   not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or
subsequent offense within a two-year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other penalty, the store’s license to sell tobacco products or
nicotine products or the store’s sales tax permit for a store that is
predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of other
products is merely incidental may be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty
(60) days.
      (2)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of the violation if such person proves that:
         (a)   the individual who purchased or received the tobacco product,
nicotine product or vapor product presented a driver’s license or other
government-issued photo identification purporting to establish that such
individual was twenty-one (21) years of age or older, or
         (b)   the person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver’s license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
         Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this section if the person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver’s license or other government-issued photo
identification was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of
the defense described in this subsection does not affect the availability of
any other defense under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 8-6A-3 DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT AND VAPOR PRODUCT SAMPLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute tobacco
products, nicotine products, vapor products or product samples to any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (B)   No person shall distribute tobacco products, nicotine products, vapor
products or product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that
is within three hundred (300) feet of any playground, school, or other facility
when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age.
   (C)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsections (A) or (B) of this section, the total
of any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   Not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second offense;
and
      (3)   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for a third or
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 8-6A-4 PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor products in any manner that
allows public access to the tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor
products without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products or an employee or the owner of the store.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to retail stores which do not
admit into the store persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (B)   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 8-6A-5 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any conviction for a violation of this Chapter and any compliance
checks by a municipal police officer pursuant to subsection (C) of this section
shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission within thirty (30) days of such conviction or compliance check. Such
reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
Convictions shall be reported by the Court Clerk or his designee and compliance
checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police or his designee.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the municipality and reported to the ABLE Commission,
shall be considered together in such determination.
   (C)   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
Police Department to assist in compliance checks and enforcement of this
Article pursuant to the rules of the ABLE Commission.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-8-2023)
TITLE 9: UTILITIES
      Chapter
         
1.    UTILITY SERVICES
         
2.    WATER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
         
3.    SEWER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
         
4.    SOLID WASTE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
CHAPTER 1: UTILITY SERVICES
Section
   
9-1-1   Utility Fees and Billings in General
   
9-1-2   Failure to Pay Bills; Penalty; Discontinuance of Service
   
9-1-3   Utility Connections; Fees; Deposits
   
9-1-4   Council Authority to Set Fees or Charges
   
9-1-5   Construction over Utility Main Lines
§ 9-1-1 UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Rates Set by Council. All fees and charges in connection with any
customer’s use of the city’s sanitary sewer system, the city’s water facility
system, or the operation of the city’s collection and disposal of refuse and
garbage are billed in accordance with applicable rates set by the city council.
   (B)   Monthly Billing. All fees and charges owing for any of these utility
services shall be billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each
month.
   (C)   Due Date for Payment. The utility bills submitted under the terms of
this section shall be payable on or before the tenth day after the billing date
each month.
§ 9-1-2 FAILURE TO PAY BILLS; PENALTY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Failure to Pay; City Actions. Upon failure of any customer to pay any
part of a utility bill submitted by the city for any utility services pursuant
to section
9-1-1  of this chapter by the fifteenth day following the date of the bill to
the customer, the following actions and penalties may result:
      (1)   The authorized agents of the city may disconnect or discontinue any
or all utility services to the customer after providing written notice to the
customer of the intent of the city to disconnect or discontinue any or all of
the utility services; and
      (2)   The authorized agents of the city may discontinue to furnish water
to any customer refusing or neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill
submitted after mailing providing written notice to the customer of the intent
of the city to disconnect the water service; and
      (3)   A fee for reconnection of utility service where the service has
been turned off or a meter has been disconnected by the city for any reason
shall be set by the council by motion or resolution.
   (B)   Payment of Charges Prior to Reconnection. If any utility service is
discontinued or disconnected pursuant to this section, the city, or its agents,
shall not reconnect or reestablish the service until the full amount of any
outstanding utility service bill is paid, plus any penalty, plus any applicable
charges or expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
§ 9-1-3 UTILITY CONNECTIONS; FEES; DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Approval and Payment of Tap Charge Required. The officer shall approve
any request for a water tap and connection, a sewer tap on an existing line, or
a sewer tap on a new line. Prior to granting approval by the superintendent,
the customer shall have paid the connection or tap charge as applicable and set
by ordinance or resolution of the council.
   (B)   Deposit Required; Refund. The deposit shall serve as a guarantee for
the payment of charges for utility service and other amounts owed to the city
in connection with the utility service. The deposit shall be held in trust by
the city. When a customer’s utility service is disconnected, the deposit or any
part of such amount deposited which remains after all such charges and amounts
due the city have been satisfied, shall be returned to the customer.
§ 9-1-4 COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO SET FEES OR CHARGES.
   The city council from time to time by ordinance or resolution shall have the
power to establish rates and charges governing all aspects of the city utility
services, including monthly service fees, connection fees and charges, and
deposits.
§ 9-1-5 CONSTRUCTION OVER UTILITY MAIN LINES.
   (A)   Access Required. Construction or placement of structures, walls,
pavement, facilities, things, materials or debris, except authorized driveways,
over the top of or near public water and sewer main lines or appurtenances
thereto, such that the mains cannot be accessed for maintenance, repair or
replacement, shall not be allowed.
   (B)   Exceptions. The city may grant exceptions in cases where construction
or placement makes it impractical to relocate mains or appurtenances thereto
only if the owner indemnifies the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by such construction or placement.
   (C)   Relocation of Mains. Relocation of mains or appurtenances thereto
shall be at the sole cost of the owner and according to city specifications and
standards.
(Ord. 1997-11, passed 10-7-1997)
CHAPTER 2: WATER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
Section
   
9-2-1   Definitions
   
9-2-2   System Designated Public Utility
   
9-2-3   Water Rates, System Fees and Charges
   
9-2-4   System Under Control of Public Works
   
9-2-5   Water and Water Service Provided by City
   
9-2-6   Application, Contract and Deposit for Service
   
9-2-7   Discontinued Water Service
   
9-2-8   Water Tap Request; Prior Notice Required
   
9-2-9   New Water Connection
   
9-2-10   Water Use and Water Billing
   
9-2-11   Water Billing Disputes
   
9-2-12   Separate Service and Curb Stop
   
9-2-13   Restrictions
   
9-2-14   Rights Reserved
   
9-2-15   Damages to Customer Premises
   
9-2-16   Taking Water Unlawfully
   
9-2-17   Damaging Equipment and Interference with Mains
   
9-2-18   Water Wells
   
9-2-19   Approval of Private Water Sources
   
9-2-20   Right of Entry for Inspection; Credentials
   
9-2-21   Water Lines and Meter Sizes
   
9-2-22   Temporary Service
Article A. Water District
   
9-2A-1   Definitions
   
9-2A-2   District Created
   
9-2A-3   City Police Power
   
9-2A-4   State, County and City Rules Applicable
   
9-2A-5   Authority to Appoint Caretaker
   
9-2A-6   Additional Regulations Promulgated by Council
   
9-2A-7   Rules of State Health Commissioner
   
9-2A-8   Burials Prohibited
   
9-2A-9   Waste Matter from Oil or Gas Wells
§ 9-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION (CORP) STOP. A valve set at the point where the utility service
line is connected to the main line. The city is responsible to provide,
maintain and repair the corporation stop.
   CURB STOP. A valve placed in the meter vault for the purpose of turning the
customer’s water off or on. The city is responsible to provide, maintain and
repair curb stops except in the case of customer or plumber disturbance
resulting in repairs. Such repairs will be charged to the party that disturbed
the curb stop.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The water service line between the customer side of a
meter and the customer’s house, business, or wherever water is ultimately used
on the customer side. The customer is responsible for maintenance and repairs
on this line.
   LAWN METER. A meter set by the city at the customer’s request, for the
purpose of watering lawns, shrubs and gardens. Water from lawn meters have no
access to sewer system.
   MAIN LINE. Underground line used for the transport of water used for
consumption and fire protection throughout the service area. The city is
responsible to maintain and repair main lines.
   MAIN LINE VALVE. A valve set in a main water line that is accessed only by
the city to turn on or shut off water for the purpose of making line
improvements and repairs. The city is responsible to maintain and repair main
line valves.
   METER VAULT. Round or rectangular box with a lid placed in the ground around
a water meter for the purpose of protecting the meter. The city is responsible
to provide and maintain meter vaults.
   POTABLE WATER. Water treated to a quality that is safe for human
consumption.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. Oversees and directs the public works department.
   REGULAR BUSINESS HOURS. Monday through Friday, eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to
five o’clock (5:00) P.M.
   UTILITY CUSTOMER. Any person, firm or corporation that purchases potable
water from the city.
   UTILITY CUSTOMER SERVICE. The division within the public works department
that handles customer questions, complaints, work orders, meter reading and
utility billing.
   UTILITY SERVICE LINE. The water line between a city main line and the back
side of the meter. This city is responsible for maintenance and repairs on this
line.
   WATER METER. The device, including any appurtenances thereto, that is used
to register water use. A meter may be read by manual, computer, electrical,
radio or telephonic means. The city is responsible to maintain and repair water
meters.
   WATER SYSTEM. Potable water treatment, supply and distribution system owned
and operated by the city of Chandler.
§ 9-2-2 SYSTEM DESIGNATED PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The water system of the city is hereby declared to be a public utility and a
proper source of revenues and expenditures to build and maintain the city water
system and for such other expenses as the city council may decide.
§ 9-2-3 WATER RATES, SYSTEM FEES AND CHARGES.
   The city council shall, from time to time by ordinance or resolution, set or
amend the water rates and water system fees and charges. A copy of the current
rates, fees and charges shall be kept on file in the city clerk’s office.
§ 9-2-4 SYSTEM UNDER CONTROL OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Supervision and Control. The water system is under the supervision and
control of the public works department of the city. The city manager is
responsible to see that it is operated in a businesslike manner and in
accordance with ordinance provisions and other policies adopted by the city
council. Subject to such ordinance provisions and policies, the city manager
may make reasonable regulations to govern the water system as may be necessary
for efficient operations or as may be required by federal and state authorities
that make rules and regulations for municipal water systems.
   (B)   Water Meter Required. No person shall obtain any water from the city
water system unless it is metered. The city shall own, operate, repair and
replace all meters in the water system. Water meters shall be placed as near as
possible and convenient to the curb or the property line of the property
served. Meter locations shall be determined by the public works department.
§ 9-2-5 WATER AND WATER SERVICE PROVIDED BY CITY.
   The city provides potable water to all water utility customers. Water
service may be denied or terminated at the city’s sole discretion to any
customer and any premises:
   (A)   Until all delinquent bill(s) or charges for prior or current city
utility services are paid.
   (B)   Who fails to comply with any provision of this code.
   (C)   Who uses an alias, trade name, business name, the name of a relative
or another person as a device to escape payment of an unpaid obligation for
prior service or for current service.
   (D)   If a customer provides false information or refuses to provide any
legally requested information concerning utility services or use.
§ 9-2-6 APPLICATION, CONTRACT AND DEPOSIT FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for Service; Deposit Required. Every utility customer
desiring to have a property or properties connected with the water system shall
make application to utility customer service and shall sign a contract therefor
upon a printed form to be furnished for that purpose, and shall pay a fee as
set by the city council for turning on the water, and shall make a deposit in
an amount as set by council to be held by the city as security for the payment
of the water bill. No water shall be turned on unless the deposit has been
paid.
   (B)   Transfer of Application and Contract. An application and contract for
service is not transferable from one utility customer to another unless written
authorization is obtained from utility customer service. Service can be
transferred and connected for the same utility customer moving from one address
to another by filing a new application and contract and paying any fees or
obtaining permits that may be required, such as, but not limited to, houses
under construction or newly constructed which will require a new water tap. The
utility customer service division may require an update to the utility customer
account history, and such information may be acquired by telephone.
   (C)   Transfer of Deposit. Transferring of a current deposit is acceptable
upon application; provided, that prior to such transfer, the deposit amount is
equal to the current deposit amount in affect as set by city council.
   (D)   Date of Service. Service will begin in the name of the utility
customer effective on the date the service is actually turned on by the public
works department.
   (E)   Contents of Application.
      (1)   An application shall as a minimum contain at least the true name of
the applicant, date of birth, social security number, telephone number,
employer, next of kin not residing at the same address, and the service address
and mailing address, if different, and such other information as the city may
deem necessary in order to ensure effective billing and collection of each
account.
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application must state the
name of the president and service agent of the corporation and the designated
person responsible for paying utility bills.
   (F)   Copy of Lease. A legible copy of any written lease in the case of a
renter/tenant applying for service shall be attached to the application.
   (G)   Separate Application for Each Connection. A separate application is
required for each service connection to the main. If one service connection
serves multiple users (such as in an office complex and/or apartment complex,
duplex, triplex, etc.), the applicant is responsible for the water usage,
monthly bill, deposit, etc., for that connection.
   (H)   New Location. An application for water service will not be processed
or approved for a new location until all sums due from the applicant’s previous
location, if any, have been paid.
   (I)   Payment of Water Rates. Each utility customer shall be liable to the
city to pay for all water used. Water used is based on meter readings.
   (J)   City Use of Deposit. City reserves the right to apply meter deposits
toward delinquent water, sewer and sanitation service bills, and toward unpaid
water, sewer service repair bills. If meter deposit is adjusted towards
delinquent and/or unpaid bills, it is the responsibility of the utility
customer to replenish the deposit within fourteen (14) calendar days after
being notified by the city.
   (K)   Authority to Increase Deposit Amount.
      (1)   The city reserves the right to require a higher deposit amount if a
customer has received utility service in the past and had utility service
suspended for nonpayment. An existing customer’s deposit may be increased if
any of the following conditions occur: a) utility service is suspended for
failure to pay; b) check returned for insufficient funds; c) use of service
without proper written city authorization.
      (2)   If a customer’s deposit becomes inadequate to ensure payment of
bills because of changes to the character or volume of a customer’s service,
the customer may be required to increase the deposit to an amount equal to the
highest bill in the last twelve (12) month period. This higher deposit shall
remain with the city to the credit of the person paying same so long as service
is continued for the utility customer.
   (L)   False Information. If the customer service department receives
sufficient evidence to indicate that a customer has provided false information
to establish service at a new location to avoid the payment of charges owing at
a previous location, the city shall transfer the charges owed to the current
account, and the charges will become a part of the customer’s utility bill at
which time the entire bill becomes subject to the city’s payment policy.
   (M)   New Occupant. If the city leaves a water service connected to vacant
premises, it shall not constitute consent by the city for any new occupant of
such premises to use the service without making proper application for water
service. Occupants using water service without deposit and/or application shall
be liable to the city for the deposit amount, as well as payment for all water
received, which will be billed at the prevailing rates for all services
available at the premises. Said occupant will be required to show a lease or
other document specifying when occupancy began and will be billed back to the
reading nearest to the date of the lease. Failure to make application and/or
deposit may result in immediate termination of service.
§ 9-2-7 DISCONTINUED WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Notice Required. Requests must be received by the city at least two
(2) working days (48 hours) prior to the date the service is to be terminated.
Requests made on Friday, Saturday or Sunday will not be terminated until the
following Monday. Same day termination request will result in a fee, at the
prevailing rate as set by city council, to be charged against the deposit.
   (B)   Temporary Turn Off.
      (1)   Temporary water turn off for the purpose of customer repairs is
provided by the city at no charges to the customer.
      (2)   Temporary water turn off for all other reasons will only be done
during regular business hours and carry a service charge of the prevailing rate
set by city council.
   (C)   Payment of Final Bill. When water service is discontinued the customer
shall pay the final bill, based on the meter reading as of the date the meter
is shut off and any other then due and owing charges before any deposit is
refunded.
   (D)   Refund of Deposit. The meter deposit, or balance thereof, shall be
refunded once all authorized charges have been subtracted. Such balance shall
only be refunded in the case of a final disconnect.
§ 9-2-8 WATER TAP REQUEST; PRIOR NOTICE REQUIRED.
   A request for a water tap shall be made forty-eight (48) hours prior to the
installation of the tap. All applicable fees must be paid before installation
of the tap.
§ 9-2-9 NEW WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   Payment of Tap Fee. A tap fee for a new connection to the city water
system within the city limits shall be paid prior to the public works
department making such connection.
   (B)   Property Outside City Limits. Property located outside the city limits
may be connected to the city water supply with the approval of city council.
Owners of property outside the limits of any water district, or the owners of
property not abutting on any main or submain water system, may connect their
property with the public or district water system under such restrictions,
regulations and charges and fees as the council may prescribe by motion or
resolution.
   (C)   Prior Notice; Plumbing Certificate. The request for a new water
connection must be made at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the expected
installation of the tap. No water connection shall be made to any premises
which does not have an approved plumbing certificate on file with the building
inspection official.
   (D)   Connection for Irrigation Water.
      (1)   Premises with a current water connection may, upon application and
payment of the prevailing fee, receive another connection for the purpose of
irrigating lawns, gardens and vegetation.
      (2)   This connection will be known as a “lawn meter”.
      (3)   In no case will a property have only a lawn meter where there is a
house or other habitable structure or any structure with sewer plumbing
fixtures whether or not such fixtures are functional.
   (E)   New Installation; Procedure.
      (1)   After payment of the tapping fee and water deposit, the city will
make the required water tap and set the meter and meter vault.
      (2)   A licensed plumber shall install the customer service line from the
meter to the house or other facility where water is to be used. In the event
the tap is larger than two inches (2"), it shall be made by a licensed plumber
and paid for by the customer. Provided, however, before any such tap is made,
plans and location of tap must be approved by the city and a forty-eight (48)
hour notice shall be given before the actual tapping of the main line in order
for city personnel to be present during the tapping operations.
      (3)   At no time shall such a tap be made in the absence of city
personnel.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the plumber to fill in the tapping pit to
the satisfaction of the city.
      (5)   The public works department or code enforcement officer shall cause
the meter to be turned on and note the reading and date that water service is
established.
   (F)   Violation; Compliance Required.
      (1)   Any person, whether as owner, plumber, servant, agent or employee,
who shall make any connection to any city water main without having first
secured a permit and paid the appropriate fees, as provided herein, shall be
fined at the prevailing rate as set by city council.
      (2)   A new water tap connection may be made only by the public works
department or by private contractors with city supervision and inspection
according to plans and specifications previously approved by the city.
§ 9-2-10 WATER USE AND WATER BILLING.
   (A)   Reading Meters. Water meters will be read on approximately thirty (30)
day intervals and billing for service will normally be sent monthly. Whenever
it is not possible to read meters during any billing period, an estimated bill
may be prepared, which will be based upon previous usage and other available
information. The estimated bill will be adjusted when the next actual reading
is obtained.
   (B)   Billing Term. Billing for water service activated from the first
through the fifteenth day of the month will be billed during the current month.
Billing for water service activated from the sixteenth through the end of the
month will be billed in the following month.
   (C)   Minimum Rate. Meters showing no water use or use up to two thousand
(2,000) gallons, will be billed the minimum rate. The minimum rate will not be
applied to lawn meters.
   (D)   Meter Readings Rounded. Meter readings will be rounded down to the
nearest one thousand (1,000) gallons. For example, if a reading shows a
quantity between five thousand (5,000) and five thousand nine hundred ninety-
nine (5,999) gallons has been used, then the bill will show five thousand
(5,000) gallons of water used in that period.
   (E)   Payment of Bills; Due Date. Water bills are due and payable upon
receipt. Bills must be paid by the fifteenth day of the month to avoid
incurring a late payment penalty of the prevailing rate set by city council. If
the bill is not paid by the due date, water service will be subject to being
discontinued.
   (F)   City Services Combined for Billing. Water bills may be combined with
billings for other city services such as, but not limited to, sewer and solid
waste refuse collection.
   (G)   Customer Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of every
customer, whether owner or tenant, to keep the city advised of the customer’s
correct mailing address. The failure of any customer to receive water bills
shall not be a valid excuse for failure to pay bills when due.
   (H)   Service Discontinued; Penalty Imposed. If water service is
discontinued for a customer who has a past due and delinquent utility account,
the amount due shall be the current utility bill plus the penalty and any
arrears. No water service shall be reestablished until all bills and charges
are paid and as well as any increase in deposit required by utility customer
service. In certain instances, if utility customer service determines that a
meter or any other related property should be removed from a customer’s
premises to prevent the unauthorized taking of city water services, a charge at
the prevailing rate will be charged to the customer’s account for resetting the
meter.
   (I)   Extension of Time for Payment. The customer service department may
grant an extension of time to pay a utility bill. If the facts warrant, such
extension may be granted but may not exceed fifteen (15) days. Failure to
comply with any extension agreement may result in disconnection of service
without further notice, and extensions will be not be granted for one year from
the date of the noncompliance of the extension agreement.
   (J)   Charge for Returned Check. A charge at the prevailing rate shall be
levied when any check given in payment of water, sewer, sanitation or other
service charges is returned from the bank after payment is refused for any
reason. A returned check is considered nonpayment of a bill. In the event two
(2) such returned checks are made to the city for utility service within any
preceding twelve (12) month period, payment of each monthly bill by such
customer for the next twelve (12) month period shall be by certified cashier’s
check, cash or money order.
   (K)   Collection of Accounts in Default. On utility accounts which are found
to be in default, the public works department may institute all collection
remedies available to the city, including, but not limited to, collection
agency services. If the city obtains a judgment against the utility customer in
a suit to collect money owed, the cost of such action, including attorney fees,
interest and court costs shall be paid in full prior to renewal of services.
§ 9-2-11 WATER BILLING DISPUTES.
   A water bill dispute arises when a customer alleges that their water usage
is incorrect and/or that the amount charged is incorrect for the amount of
water used.
   (A)   Meter Reading Presumed Correct. A water bill that does not show use in
excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons over the previous month will be presumed
correct if the meter is found to be operating, no reading mistakes are found
and the rate calculation for the amount of water used is correct.
   (B)   Evaluation of High Reading. A water bill that shows use in excess of
two thousand (2,000) gallons over the previous month will be evaluated by
checking the meter for reading mistakes and leaks, and checking the billing
register for data entry and calculation errors. The customer will be notified
of the findings and adjustments, if any, to the bill.
   (C)   Customer Request for Meter Testing.
      (1)   A customer who is not satisfied with the findings made by the
public works department can request that the meter be tested for a correct
register. In the presence of the customer, the public works department will
first test the meter in the ground with a testing devise used for that purpose.
      (2)   If the customer is not satisfied with those findings, the customer
can request that the meter be tested by a lab which performs such tests.
      (3)   If the result of the lab test shows that the meter registers
correct or in favor of the customer, then the customer will pay the prevailing
lab costs and the disputed water bill and the cost of removing and reinstalling
the meter at the prevailing rate.
      (4)   If the result of the lab test shows that the meter registers
incorrect (reads high), then the customer will not be charged for the lab costs
and will receive a percentage credit on the disputed water bill as well as a
like percentage credit on each bill paid since the start of the then current
fiscal year. The percentage credit will be the percentage amount the meter test
reads high, for example: if the meter reads high by two percent (2%), then the
water portion of the bill will be adjusted by two percent (2%).
      (5)   The public works department will give an estimate of cost so the
customer can decide on proceeding with meter test.
   (D)   Billing in Arrearage. No meter will be checked or tested if a
customer’s current bill carries an arrears from a previous billing period. The
amount in arrears must be paid before a billing dispute will be considered for
the current period.
§ 9-2-12 SEPARATE SERVICE AND CURB STOP.
   (A)   Location. All service pipes or lines shall be located in such manner
that the supply for each separate house or premises shall be controlled by a
separate stop cock placed between the meter and the main water supply line and
accessible within the protective meter can.
   (B)   Apartments; Master Meter. Apartments, trailer parks or other multi-
family dwelling units and office structures shall have a single master meter.
   (C)   Serving Single Property. No property owner or water customer shall be
allowed to connect or permit to be connected to any water line or pipe serving
any other property or premises not belonging to the customer and used
exclusively by the customer. Any property owner or occupant furnishing water
through his meter to another property owner or occupant shall immediately be
disconnected from the water system without notice. The meter used by such
person shall be taken out and not replaced until the connection is disconnected
from such separate premises and a meter reset fee paid.
   (D)   Meter Relocation. Where water meters must be relocated for the purpose
of, but not limited to, accessing the water meter, the public works department
will reconnect to the customer service line at the point where the customer
service line was disconnected for the relocation. After completion of water
meter relocation, the water line from the new water meter location to
customer’s house or other facility of use, will be the new customer’s service
line and will be the responsibility of the customer.
§ 9-2-13 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Interfering with Access to Meters. Interfering with meter reading such
as, but not limited to, parking cars over meters to make access difficult,
keeping vicious dogs in the vicinity of the meter or tampering with lids,
meters or reading devices attached to the meter, is prohibited. If after
written warning, the interference continues, the water service will be
discontinued. Fees for reestablishing service will be assessed.
   (B)   Water Conservation. The use of water for sprinkling or irrigating
lawns, gardens, flowerbeds, plants, trees, shrubs, or for washing porches,
steps or walks, or for washing cars, is permissible, except at such time the
city declares a shortage of water and imposes mandatory water rationing. Any
person using water in violation of the above provisions shall be subject to
possible fines and/or having their water turned off and the service
discontinued.
§ 9-2-14 RIGHTS RESERVED.
   (A)   City Right to Turn Off Water. The city reserves the right to shut off
the water supply without notice for repairs or extensions and no liability
shall attach therefrom.
   (B)   Nonliability of City for Supply Failure. In all cases where the city
water supply fails, whether from natural causes or accidents of any kind, the
city shall not be held liable for any damage of any kind by reason of such
failure.
   (C)   Industrial and Bulk Users. Industrial and bulk users where the size of
service and the amount of water used is such that the main pressure in the
immediate vicinity is perceptibly affected, it shall be the duty of such user
to install a storage tank of sufficient capacity to enable operation without
water directly from the water mains.
§ 9-2-15 DAMAGES TO CUSTOMER PREMISES.
   The city shall not be liable for any damage caused by the breaking of any
pipes or fixtures, stoppage or interruption of water, or for any defect in the
customer’s water system or any main lines running through easements, alleys or
streets.
§ 9-2-16 TAKING WATER UNLAWFULLY.
   It is an offense for any person to take water from any main or pipe
unlawfully. Proof of the existence of, or an attempt to create any bypass,
tampering with meters or unauthorized metering, shall be deemed prima facie
evidence that the person responsible for the water account at the premises has
knowledge of the bypass, tampering or unauthorized metering or an attempt
thereof.
§ 9-2-17 DAMAGING EQUIPMENT AND INTERFERENCE WITH MAINS.
   (A)   Injuring Unlawful. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
destroy or injure any water pipe, hydrant, faucet, or water equipment erected
or placed by the city.
   (B)   Main Valves. All main valves throughout the entire city water system
are for the exclusive use of the city in making repairs, extensions and other
improvements, and no person shall, under any circumstances, use or tamper with
the system without the written consent of the city.
   (C)   Disturbing Facilities. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
disturb, interfere with, open, operate, close, turn off, attach any pipe or
hose to, or connect anything with any hydrant, stop valve, or stop cock, to any
pipe or main belonging to the city.
   (D)   Fire Hydrants. All fire hydrants are directly under the exclusive
control of the city. No person shall tamper with or secure water from fire
hydrants without written consent of the city.
§ 9-2-18 WATER WELLS.
   Where a public potable supply of water is available within three hundred
feet (300'), connection shall be made thereto and city supply shall be used
exclusively; provided however on lots on one acre or more containing a single-
family residence private water wells shall be allowed for purposes of watering
lawns, trees, gardens, shrubs and the like. No private water well will be
connected in any way to the city water supply. Prior to commencing drilling of
a private water well, the owner shall obtain a written permit from the city and
shall pay a permit fee as contained in title 1, chapter 10 of this code.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 7-5-2005)
§ 9-2-19 APPROVAL OF PRIVATE WATER SOURCES.
   Where private water supplies must be developed, the public works department,
department of environmental quality and the Oklahoma water resources board must
approve the location, construction and development of both the water well, pipe
system and connections. No private source other than a water well shall be
used.
§ 9-2-20 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION; CREDENTIALS.
   (A)   Identification Required. Officers and employees of the city, whose
duty it may be to enter upon private premises to make inspection of pipes and
fixtures or attachments used in connection with the city’s water lines, will be
provided with a badge or other credentials to identify them as officers and
employees of the city.
   (B)   Free Access for Inspection. Any officer or employee of the city shall,
upon presentation of his badge or other credentials provided for in this
section, have free access at all reasonable hours to any premises supplied with
city water, for the purpose of making any inspection of a water connection or
line upon the premises where new or remodel construction of plumbing is being
done.
   (C)   Water Turnoff for Refusal of Admittance. In case any employee is
refused admittance to any premises or is prevented from making any inspection
of a water connection or line upon the premises, it shall be cause for the
water to be turned off from the premises forthwith. The customer will be given
forty-eight (48) hours’ notice if the premises are deemed inaccessible and will
be asked to contact customer service to arrange access. Lack of contact by the
customer may result in discontinuance of service without further notice.
§ 9-2-21 WATER LINES AND METER SIZES.
   Main lines, and appurtenances thereto, to be dedicated to the city for
maintenance shall be approved for size, type and installation methods by the
public works department and shall meet minimum DEQ requirements prior to
installation. Main lines in streets, alleys, easements or along road right-of-
way shall be a minimum diameter of six inches (6"). All service lines placed
under streets or alleys shall be approved for size and type by the public works
department prior to installation. All service lines placed under streets or
alleys shall be encased with pipe in a manner approved by the public works
department.
§ 9-2-22 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   Upon approval of utility customer service, a temporary service may be
established for such things as construction. The customer will be required to
complete a temporary utility service agreement at the time of connection and
pay temporary hookup fees. The normal minimum water, sewer, and sanitation
rates will apply where such services are on account, and the service will be
disconnected without further notice at the expiration of the temporary utility
service agreement, at which time, a deposit will be required for continued
services. The city may decline to provide temporary service if the applicant
has a delinquent account for services provided at any other premises.
ARTICLE A. WATER DISTRICT
§ 9-2A-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTERLINE. The centerline of the “watercourse” as described in this
section.
   HIGH WATER LINE. The margin of the reservoirs when the surface thereof is at
the following elevations on the following reservoirs:
      Chandler reservoir: 898 feet above sea level
      Pump station reservoir: 854 feet above sea level
   LINEAR DISTANCE. Whenever a linear distance of a structure or object from a
reservoir, or from a watercourse, is mentioned in this article, it is intended
to mean the shortest horizontal distance from the nearest point of the
structure or object to the high water line of the reservoir or centerline of a
watercourse.
   RESERVOIRS. Means and refers to the reservoirs maintained as a water supply
by the city or to any tributary which serves as source of the reservoirs.
   WATERCOURSES. Means and includes every spring, pond, stream, ditch, gutter
or other channel of every kind, the waters of which when running, whether
continuously or occasionally, eventually flow or may flow into the reservoirs.
§ 9-2A-2 DISTRICT CREATED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by the Oklahoma Statutes, there is hereby
created and established a water district in Lincoln County, Oklahoma,
designated as the Chandler water district, which shall embrace all the land in
the county and state within the following metes and bounds:
   South Half (S1/2) of Section Seventeen (17); South Half (S1/2) of Section
Eighteen (18), Sections Nineteen (19), Twenty (20), Twenty-One (21), Twenty-
Eight (28), Twenty-Nine (29), Thirty (30), Thirty-One (31) and Thirty-Two (32)
all in Township Fifteen (15) North, Range Four (4) East of the Indian Meridian;
   Sections Four (4), Five (5), Six (6), Seven (7), Eight (8), Nine (9), Ten
(10), Eleven (11), Thirteen (13), Fourteen (14), Fifteen (15), Sixteen (16),
Seventeen (17), Eighteen (18), Twenty (20), Twenty-One (21), Twenty-Two (22),
Twenty-Three (23), Twenty-Four (24), Twenty-Five (25), Twenty-Six (26), Twenty-
Seven (27), Twenty-Eight (28), Twenty-Nine (29), Thirty-Three (33), Thirty-Four
(34), Thirty-Five (35), Thirty-Six (36), and the Northeast Quarter of Nineteen
(19), all in Township Fifteen (15) North, Range Three (3) East of the Indian
Meridian;
   Sections One (1), Two (2), and Twelve (12) all in Township Fifteen (15)
North, Range Two (2) East of the Indian Meridian;
   South Half (S1/2) of Section Twenty-Five (25); South Half of Section Twenty-
Six (26); Sections Thirty-Five (35), and Thirty-Six (36), all in Township
Sixteen (16) North, Range Two (2) East of the Indian Meridian; and
   Section Thirty-One (31) and the South Half (S1/2) of Thirty-Two (32), all in
Township Sixteen (16) North, Range Three (3) East of the Indian Meridian.
§ 9-2A-3 CITY POLICE POWER.
   As authorized by the laws of the state, police power of the city is hereby
extended over all lands embraced within the above described water district, and
it is hereby declared that the jurisdiction of the city, the council thereof,
the courts and all proper officers of the city, in the fullest degree
conformable to law, extends over and applies to the entire water district above
described for the protection of the health of the inhabitants and the purity of
the water supply of the city.
§ 9-2A-4 STATE, COUNTY AND CITY RULES APPLICABLE.
   All the rules and regulations of the state, county and city boards of health
or health department, and of the state commissioner of health, and of the
county and city health officers respectively, now in force, are hereby extended
over and shall apply and have full force and effect within the water district.
All such rules and regulations that may lawfully be made in the future shall
extend over and have the same effect within the water district as within the
limits of the city.
§ 9-2A-5 AUTHORITY TO APPOINT CARETAKER.
   (A)   Appointment; Duties. The city manager is hereby authorized to appoint
a caretaker, whose duty it shall be to maintain complete oversight and
inspection of the water district and the watershed of the city’s reservoirs.
The caretaker shall note any violation of the rules and regulations and, also,
any cases of sickness existing within the water district or upon the watershed
and make report thereof to the city manager. Said caretaker shall perform such
other duties as may be required of him.
   (B)   Salary. The salary of such caretaker shall be fixed by the city
council.
§ 9-2A-6 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY COUNCIL.
   The city council may from time to time promulgate, after approval of the
state commissioner of health, such additional rules and regulations as may be
deemed advisable, by resolution duly published and served as provided by law,
and may by ordinance extend, modify or change the metes and bounds of the water
district so as to embrace any additional lands directly or indirectly draining
or shedding into the city’s reservoir basin.
§ 9-2A-7 RULES OF STATE HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The following rules and regulations of the state commissioner of health are
hereby ordained and declared to be in force within the city water district:
   (A)   Human Excrement. No human excrement, or compost containing human
excrement or contents of any privy, cesspool, sewer, or other reception or
storage of human excrement shall be deposited or discharged within the city
water district, or upon or into the ground at a place from which any such
excrement, compost or contents or particles thereof may flow or be washed or
carried into any “watercourse” as defined in this article.
   (B)   Household Wastewater, Polluted Water.
      (1)   No house slop, sink waste, water which has been used for washing or
cooking, or other polluted water shall be discharged into the reservoirs, or
into any watercourse within the city water district.
      (2)   No slop, sink waste, water which has been used for washing or
cooking, or other polluted water shall be discharged into or upon the ground in
the city water district within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the high water
line of the reservoirs, or within three hundred thirty feet (330') of the
centerline of any “watercourse” as defined in this article.
   (C)   Garbage, Manure.
      (1)   No garbage, manure or putrescible matter whatsoever shall be put
into the reservoirs or into any “watercourse” as defined in this article.
      (2)   No garbage, manure or putrescible matter whatsoever shall be put
upon the ground in the Chandler water district within six hundred sixty feet
(660') of the high water line of the reservoirs, or within three hundred thirty
feet (330') of the centerline of any “watercourse” as defined in this article.
   (D)   Stables, Animal Enclosures. No stable, pigsty, hen house, barn house,
hog yard, hitching or standing place for horses, cattle, or animals or other
place where animal manure is deposited or accumulated shall be located,
constructed or maintained in the city water district any part of which is
within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the high water line of the reservoirs,
or within three hundred thirty feet (330') of the centerline of any
“watercourse” as defined in this article; except that the construction and use
of buildings, animal lots and pasture land may be permitted only by permission
granted in writing by authorized representatives of the city upon the
recommendation of local health authorities. Such use shall be permitted only so
long as changing conditions, in the opinion of local health authorities, do not
create a health menace.
   (E)   Refuse or Industrial Waste. No refuse, industrial waste or other waste
products or polluting liquids, or other substance of a nature poisonous or
injurious, either to human beings or animals, or of such nature as would impart
an objectionable taste or odor to any water into which it might be discharged,
and no putrescible matter whatsoever shall be discharged directly into or at
any place from which it may flow or be washed or carried into the reservoirs,
or into any “watercourse” as defined in this article.
   (F)   Sewer System; Waste Drainage.
      (1)   No system of sewers or other works for the collection, conveyance,
disposal or purification of domestic or manufacturing wastes, or drainage or
any other putrescible matter whatsoever shall, except in accordance with plans
first approved in writing by the state health department, be constructed or
maintained at any place within the city water district.
      (2)   No private or separate sewer shall be constructed or maintained in
the city water district having an outlet upon or in the ground within six
hundred sixty feet (660') of the high water line of the reservoirs, or within
three hundred thirty feet (330') of the centerline of any “watercourse” as
defined in this article.
   (G)   Hospitals.
      (1)   No public or private hospital, or other place intended for the
reception or treatment of persons afflicted with a contagious or infectious
disease shall, until the location and construction thereof have been approved
in writing by the state board of health, be located or constructed at any place
within the city water district.
      (2)   No public or private hospital or other place intended for the
reception or treatment of persons afflicted with a contagious or infectious
disease shall be maintained any place within the water district, unless all the
provisions required by the state board of health for the purification or
disposal of sewage, drainage or other polluting or organic matter, which may be
discharged therefrom, have been complied with, and unless all orders issued
from time to time by the state board of health, in relation to the purification
and disposal of sewage, drainage, and other polluting or organic matter which
may be discharged therefrom, are fully complied with.
   (H)   Bathing or Wading, Allowing Animals in Water. No person shall bathe in
or wade or swim, drive or put any animal into the reservoirs, or bathe or wade
in any “watercourse” as defined in this article.
   (I)   Residences, Campsites. No human habitation, cottage, tent, campsite,
or residence of any kind, either temporary or permanent, shall be hereafter
built, set up or constructed upon any lands within six hundred sixty feet
(660') of the high water line of the reservoirs, or within three hundred thirty
feet (330') of the centerline of any “watercourse” as defined in this article,
except upon such, or any part of such, lands the natural drainage of which is
not into any reservoirs or watercourses; however, the city may construct or
maintain such structures within such prohibited territory as may be necessary
in furtherance of the protection of such reservoirs from contamination and
pollution.
   (J)   Manufacturing Establishments. No manufacturing establishment at which
more than five (5) persons are employed, and no slaughterhouse or rendering
establishment shall be located upon the watershed of the reservoirs, unless the
state board of health be first notified regarding such manufacturing
establishment and consents thereto and issues a permit therefor.
   (K)   Report Contagious Disease or Nuisance Condition to City. It is hereby
made the duty of any and all persons having any knowledge of the existence of
any contagious or infectious disease, or of any nuisance or violation of the
law or of these rules within the limits of the city water district, to
immediately report same to the code enforcement officer of the city, who shall
at once take such action as the case may require, within twenty-four (24)
hours.
   (L)   Gasoline, Oil or Drain Pipe Drips. No gasoline drips or waste oil
drips or drain pipe drips shall be allowed to be placed or used within the
water district of the city, and any and all drips that might be located within
the district now, must be removed or placed in condition that they do not drain
within the water district.
   (M)   Removal of Dead Animals. No owner or occupant of land within the city
water district shall permit an animal carcass or any portion to remain on the
land under his control within the district. It shall be the duty of all owners
or occupants of land within the district to immediately remove all dead animals
from or upon their premises to points not less than six hundred sixty feet
(660') from the high water mark of any reservoir or within three hundred thirty
feet (330') of the centerline of any “watercourse” as defined in this article,
or of any lake, pond, stream, ditch, watercourse, or other body of water, the
water of which flows or may flow, directly or ultimately into the reservoirs.
§ 9-2A-8 BURIALS PROHIBITED.
   No burials or interments shall be made in the city water district, in any
cemetery that may be within the city water district, or in any other place
within the city water district.
§ 9-2A-9 WASTE MATTER FROM OIL OR GAS WELLS.
   No person, association of persons or corporation shall permit or cause any
waste matter from oil or gas wells, or any salt water, or other substance of
any nature whatsoever that would pollute the water of the reservoirs, to flow
across, over or under any land in the city water district in such a manner that
the waste matter, salt water, or other substance will flow directly or
ultimately into the reservoirs, or into any reservoir, lake, pond, stream,
ditch, watercourse, or other body of water, the water of which flows or may
flow directly or ultimately into the reservoirs.
CHAPTER 3: SEWER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
Section
   
9-3-1   System Declared Public Utility
   
9-3-2   Sewer Rates and Charges
   
9-3-3   Sewer Connections; Fees; Notice
   
9-3-4   Disposition of Funds
Article A. Industrial Waste Disposal
   
9-3A-1   Definitions
   
9-3A-2   Use of Public Sewers Required
   
9-3A-3   Private Sewage Disposal
   
9-3A-4   Building Sewers and Connections
   
9-3A-5   Storm Water Discharge into Sanitary Sewers Prohibited
   
9-3A-6   Prohibited Discharges
   
9-3A-7   Discharges Prohibited in Certain Instances
   
9-3A-8   Unlawful Discharges, Actions of City
   
9-3A-9   Grease and Oil Interceptors Required
   
9-3A-10   Preliminary Treatment at Owner’s Expense
   
9-3A-11   Buildings Requiring Manhole Covers
   
9-3A-12   Samples and Tests of Industrial Wastes
   
9-3A-13   Special Discharge Agreements for Industrial Wastes
   
9-3A-14   Penalties
§ 9-3-1 SYSTEM DECLARED PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The operation of the city’s sanitary sewer system is hereby declared to be a
public utility and a proper source of city revenues and expenditures for the
upkeep and maintenance of the sewer system.
§ 9-3-2 SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Sewer Rates. The city council shall from time to time by ordinance or
resolution set or amend the fees and charges for sewer used by customers of the
city’s sewer system. A copy of the current fees or charges shall be kept on
file in the city clerk’s office.
   (B)   Determination of Sewer Charges. It being impractical in most instances
to meter the amount of sewage disposed of through the sanitary sewer system,
the amount of sewage disposed of shall be prima facie the amount of water
metered to such users.
§ 9-3-3 SEWER CONNECTIONS; FEES; NOTICE.
   (A)   Prior Notice Required. The request for the tap shall be made at least
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the installation of the tap.
   (B)   Determination of Fees.
      (1)   The tap fee for the connection to the city sewer system shall be
determined by the city manager on an individual request basis. The city manager
shall determine the actual cost of necessary supplies and materials, city
personnel, and city equipment for the proper installation of tap. There shall
be a fee set by the city council by motion or resolution.
      (2)   When applicable, the city manager, at the time of the request for a
permit, shall give the applicant an estimate of such expense. The city may
require a deposit equal to the estimate prior to the issuing of the permit.
   (C)   Outside Sewer District. Owners of property outside the limits of any
sewer district, or the owners of property not abutting on any main or submain
sanitary sewer, may connect their property with the public or district sewer,
under such restrictions and regulations as the city council may prescribe by
motion or resolution. For the privilege of so connecting, the owner of each
property served by the private sewer shall pay to the city the sum determined
by the city manager in the same manner set forth in this chapter, the payment
to be made before making the above connection.
§ 9-3-4 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The funds derived from sewer fees shall be deposited in the general revenues
of the city to be used for the upkeep, maintenance, extension, and repair of
the sanitary sewer system, and for such other uses as the city council may deem
fit.
ARTICLE A. INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 9-3A-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. Refers to the geographical area within the corporate limits of the
city of Chandler.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   DIRECTOR. The director of public works of the city, or his authorized
deputy, agent, or representative.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The county health officer for the county.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet in watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solutions.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer into which storm, surface, and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL or MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
§ 9-3A-2 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Garbage Deposits. It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or
permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human
or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Sewage Discharged into Natural Outlet. It is unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
   (C)   Privies, Septic Tanks. Except as hereinafter provided, it is unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Toilet Facilities Required; Connection to Public Sewer. The owner of
any house, building, or property used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby
required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this article within ninety (90) days after date of
official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within three
hundred feet (300') of the property line.
§ 9-3A-3 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Public Sewer Not Available. Where a public sanitary or combined sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection 9-3A-2(D) of this article,
the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system
complying with the provisions of this article.
   (B)   Private System Construction; Permit.
      (1)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system intended for connection to a public sewer, the owner shall first obtain
a written permit signed by the director.
      (2)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the city.
      (3)   The applicant shall supplement the application with any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the director.
      (4)   A permit and inspection fee, plus a per fixture installed fee, all
in such sum as set by the city council, shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.
   (C)   Inspection. A permit for a private sewage disposal system intended for
connection to a public sewer shall not become effective until the installation
is completed to the satisfaction of the health officer and the director. The
code enforcement officer shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
code enforcement officer and health officer when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours of the receipt of notice by the
code enforcement officer and health officer.
   (D)   Compliance with State Requirements. The type, capacities, location,
and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the department of health of the state. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   Connection to Public Sewer When Available. At such time as a public
sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal
system, as provided in subsection
9-3A-2 (D) of this article, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and
similar private sewage facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (F)   Operation in Sanitary Manner. The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the city.
   (G)   Compliance with Additional Requirements. No statement contained in
this article shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements
that may be imposed by the health officer.
   (H)   Time Limit for Connecting to Public Sewer. When a public sewer becomes
available, the private sewer shall be connected to the sewer within sixty (60)
days unless the health officer determines that the private sewage disposal
system is functional and the drain field does not infringe on any other
property owner. When a private sewage disposal system is abandoned, it shall
either be removed or cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or
dirt.
§ 9-3A-4 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the building
department. Any work done shall be supervised by the code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Classes of Permits; Application; Fees.
      (1)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service;
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city.
      (3)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the code enforcement officer.
      (4)   A sewer tap fee as set by the city council shall be charged per
connection to the public sewer. Applicable fees shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   Costs Borne by Owner.
      (1)   All costs and expense incidental to the line installation to the
city main shall be borne by the owner.
      (2)   The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Separate Sewer for Each Building; Exception. A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building except where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private
sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
   (E)   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
code enforcement officer, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Construction and Materials. The size, slope alignment, materials of
construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions
or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF manual of practice and the
city’s plumbing code shall apply.
   (G)   Elevation. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   Surface Runoff Prohibited from Sewer. No person shall make connection
of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   Connection of Building Sewer to Public Sewer. The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city, or the procedures set forth in the appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and the WPCF manual of practice and the city’s plumbing code. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the code enforcement
officer before installation.
   (J)   Notify Code Enforcement Officer for Inspection. The applicant for the
building sewer permit shall notify the code enforcement officer at least
twenty-four (24) hours before the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the code enforcement officer or his representative.
   (K)   Excavations.
      (1)   Guarding with Barricades, Lights. All excavations for building
sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as
to protect the public from hazard.
      (2)   Restoration. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
§ 9-3A-5 STORM WATER DISCHARGE INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the code enforcement officer. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
code enforcement officer, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
§ 9-3A-6 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two (2) milligrams per liter as CN in the wastes as
discharged to the public sewer.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to: ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
§ 9-3A-7 DISCHARGES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN INSTANCES.
   (A)   Consideration by Code Enforcement Officer. No person shall discharge
or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials,
waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the code enforcement
officer that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process,
or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his
opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the code enforcement officer
will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   Prohibited Substances. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) milligrams per liter or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty-two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F).
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
code enforcement officer.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the code enforcement officer for such materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the code enforcement officer as necessary, after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the code enforcement officer
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of
dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate;
         (b)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirement in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in section
9-3A-1 of this article.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
§ 9-3A-8 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES, ACTIONS OF CITY.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in section
9-3A-7 of this article, and which in the judgment of the wastewater operator
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the wastewater operator may:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
9-3-2 of this chapter. If the wastewater operator permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the wastewater
operator, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances,
and laws.
§ 9-3A-9 GREASE AND OIL INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the code enforcement officer, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the code enforcement officer, and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
§ 9-3A-10 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT AT OWNER’S EXPENSE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
§ 9-3A-11 BUILDINGS REQUIRING MANHOLE COVERS.
   When required by the wastewater operator, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the wastewater
operator. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall
be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
§ 9-3A-12 SAMPLES AND TESTS OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Samples Taken at Control Manhole.
      (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater”, published by the American public health
association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (B)   Sampling Methods; Analyses.
      (1)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
      (2)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty-
four (24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
and suspended solids analyses are obtained from twenty-four (24) hour
composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.
§ 9-3A-13 SPECIAL DISCHARGE AGREEMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Agreements Authorized. No statement contained in this article shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern.
   (B)   Basis for Negotiation; Considerations. The basis for negotiation of
contract for payment according to agreement reached under this section shall
include, but not be limited to, volume of wastewater, strength of wastewater
organics BOD5; suspended solids, “TSS”, and other pollutants that exceed the
range of concentrations found in normal domestic wastewater.
   (C)   Surcharge; Calculation.
      (1)   For any user, when the BOD5 exceeds 200 mg/l, the TSS exceeds 200
mg/l, or when other pollutant concentrations exceed the range of concentrations
of these pollutants in normal domestic wastewater, a surcharge shall be added
to the basic sewer charge. This surcharge shall be calculated in the following
manner:
 
Surcharge for BOD              = V x 8.34 x (BOD - 200) x Cb
Surcharge for TSS              = V x 8.34 x (TSS - 200) x Ct
Surcharge for other pollutants = V x 8.34 x (Pc - Pa) x Cp
 
      (2)   Total surcharge for month = sum of the above where:
V   = Volume of wastewater discharged per month, million gallons
BOD = Average monthly BOD5 concentration in wastewater
Cb  = Charge for treating BOD; this charge will be established and regulated by
      resolution of city council
TSS = Average monthly TSS concentration in wastewater
Ct  = Charge for treating TSS; this charge will be established and regulated by
      resolution of city council
Pc  = Average monthly concentration of other pollutants
Pa  = Allowable concentration of other pollutants
Cp  = Charge for treating other pollutants; this charge will be established and
      regulated by resolution of city council
 
§ 9-3A-14 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
this article shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Penalty Imposed. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   (C)   Liability. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article
shall also become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 4: SOLID WASTE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
9-4-1   Collection Service Declared Public Utility
   
9-4-2   Definitions
   
9-4-3   Administration
   
9-4-4   Collection Rates
   
9-4-5   Use and Payment for Services
   
9-4-6   Joint City-County Service; Contracting for Service
   
9-4-7   Collection Period
   
9-4-8   Garbage Container Requirements; Placement
   
9-4-9   Unlawful Dumping of Garbage or Refuse
   
9-4-10   Penalty
§ 9-4-1 COLLECTION SERVICE DECLARED PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The operation of the city’s refuse collection service is hereby declared to
be a public utility and a proper source of city revenues and expenditures for
the upkeep and maintenance of the city’s refuse collection service.
§ 9-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Every accumulation of animal or vegetable matter, or both; that is,
the refuse matter from kitchens, pantries, dining rooms, or other parts of
hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, tenement houses, dwelling houses, market
houses, public institutions, private hospitals, all animal matter or refuse
matter from butcher shops, the animal matter from poultry houses or stores and
the refuse matter from fish stores or other businesses or occupations.
   REFUSE. Ashes, cinders, paper, broken ware, discarded shoes or clothing, tin
cans or vessels, iron or other metallic vessels or their parts, or paper
materials and such refuse as may be termed the natural accumulations of living.
The term REFUSE, for the established monthly fee, shall not include industrial
wastes; manure; debris resulting from construction, reconstruction or repairs
of buildings; nor dead or fallen trees; nor refuse or waste that is not
properly contained, bundled or baled.
   SOLID WASTE. Refrigerators, stoves, furniture, packing cases, construction,
reconstruction debris packed in waterproof containers or in tied bundles not
more than three feet (3') long. Large tree trimmings cut in three foot (3')
lengths and bundled not more than seventy (70) pounds each. Branches and bulk
quantities of debris will be removed at an extra charge above the monthly
service fee, based on the labor and equipment required to handle, with a
minimum charge as set by the contractor hired by the city.
§ 9-4-3 ADMINISTRATION.
   The contractor hired by the city shall have charge of the collection and
disposal of garbage and other refuse under the contract with the city, under
the direction of the city manager.
§ 9-4-4 COLLECTION RATES.
   The city council shall from time to time by motion or resolution set or
amend the fees and charges for refuse collection used by customers of the
city’s refuse collection system whether performed by the city or on contract. A
copy of the current fees or charges shall be kept on file in the city clerk’s
office.
§ 9-4-5 USE AND PAYMENT FOR SERVICES.
   Each and every owner, tenant, occupant or lessee of any family dwelling,
separate apartment, building, office or premises within the corporate limits of
the city is required by this chapter to accept and use the refuse or garbage
services provided by the city, or to choose a private contractor approved by
the city who dumps at a state health department approved landfill, to pay to
the city clerk the prescribed fee for such refuse or garbage service on or
before the due date each month for the service rendered during the previous
month.
§ 9-4-6 JOINT CITY-COUNTY SERVICE; CONTRACTING FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Joint Sanitary Service or Contracting. Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the creation and operation of a joint cooperative city-county sanitary
service or landfill operation. Nor shall anything herein prohibit the city from
contracting with any person, firm, or corporation for the collection or
disposal of garbage or other refuse within the city limits and/or such areas as
may be then serviced by the city sanitation department.
   (B)   Contract Provisions Prevail. Should any provisions of a contract
creating and operation of a joint city-county sanitary service or a contract
for the collection or disposal of garbage by a person, firm or corporation,
other than the city, conflict with the provisions of this chapter, then in that
event, the terms of such contract shall supersede and take precedence over the
terms of this chapter.
§ 9-4-7 COLLECTION PERIOD.
   It shall be the duty of the contractor selected by the city to collect
refuse or garbage from each premises according to the schedule set by the city
council.
§ 9-4-8 GARBAGE CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Containers Required; Maintenance.
      (1)   The city’s contractor will provide one trash container which is
included in the cost of the customer’s base bill. If an extra container is
desired, arrangements may be made with the sanitation contractor for an
additional fee.
      (2)   The owner or user of the containers shall keep them clean and in a
sanitary condition and also the grounds around same.
   (B)   Container Placement for Collection. Garbage or refuse containers shall
be placed on the property adjoining and accessible to the street or such other
place as may be approved by the sanitation contractor by a specific time on the
designated day set by the contractor for collection.
§ 9-4-9 UNLAWFUL DUMPING OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE.
   (A)   Prohibition; Violation. It is unlawful for any unauthorized person,
firm or corporation to dump in any premises within the city, on public or
private property, any “garbage” or “refuse” as defined in this chapter, and
every such act shall constitute an offense. Each day refuse is permitted to
remain unlawfully in any alley, street, parking or elsewhere shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Contract for Removal of Wet Garbage. The city council reserves the
right and may enter into a contract with some suitable person or persons for
the removal of wet “garbage” or “refuse”, as defined herein, upon such terms
and conditions as the council may prescribe.
§ 9-4-10 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
TITLE 10: BUILDING REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
1.    BUILDING CODE
         
2.    PLUMBING CODE
         
3.    ELECTRICAL CODE
         
4.    MECHANICAL CODE
         
5.    RESIDENTIAL CODE
         
6.    FIRE CODE
         
7.    PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
         
8.    ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
         
9.    FUEL GAS CODE
         
10.    MOBILE HOMES; TRAVEL TRAILERS; MANUFACTURED HOMES; PARKS
         
11.    OIL AND GAS WELLS
         
12.    PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL CODE
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
10-1-1   Building Code Adopted
   
10-1-2   Inconsistent Ordinances Repealed
   
10-1-3   Amendments to Code
   
10-1-4   Fire Limits
   
10-1-5   Building Permit Required; Application; Issuance
   
10-1-6   Smoke Detectors
   
10-1-7   Swimming Pool Fence Enclosures
   
10-1-8   Existing Building Code Adopted
§ 10-1-1 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of
the City Clerk of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma, being marked and designated
as the International Building Code, 2015 edition, including all appendix
chapters as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Building Code of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of such structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code on file in
the Office of the Chandler City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-1-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-1-2 INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed, except the 1978 zoning ordinance, 1978 subdivision regulations, and
the amendments thereto.
§ 10-1-3 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Section 1612.3 Insert: City of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Section 1612.3 Insert: July 16, 1996
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-1-4 FIRE LIMITS.
   The City Council may hereinafter establish such fire limits as it deems
appropriate and necessary for the proper enforcement and application of this
chapter.
§ 10-1-5 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Permit Required. No building or other structure shall be built,
enlarged, altered or moved without a permit from the building official
therefor, as provided in the City’s Building Code.
   (B)   Application for Permit. Application for building permits (including
permits for moving buildings) shall be made to the building official. The
applicant shall provide such plans, specifications and other data as may be
necessary for the building official to determine whether the permit shall be
issued. Posting of addresses is required.
   (C)   Fees. Fees for building permits shall be set by the City Council by
motion or resolution.
§ 10-1-6 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   Effective January 1, 1980, the Building Code of the City is hereby amended
and supplemented to require the installation of a smoke detector in any new
residential building, unoccupied storage area of any new business building
constructed within the City. The detector herein required, shall be one
approved, listed and labeled by the Building Code, as meeting requirements for
detection of invisible and visible particles of combustion and must be
installed in a manner and location consistent with this listing, and when
activated the detector must provide an alarm suitable to warn occupants within
the building.
§ 10-1-7 SWIMMING POOL FENCE ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Fence Enclosure Required. All outdoor swimming pools shall be
completely enclosed by metal, wood or masonry fencing of not less than forty-
two inches (42") in height with no opening greater than four inches (4") in
width, except for gateways and doorways.
   (B)   Wall as Portion of Fence. Any wall or portion of a single-family
residence may constitute a portion or all of the above required enclosure.
However, no part of any apartment, motel or other dwelling structure shall form
a portion of the required enclosure unless there is no door or access from such
structure forming a part of the enclosure.
   (C)   Fence Maintenance. All fences enclosing swimming pools shall be
maintained in a secure, safe and operating condition at all times.
   (D)   Self-Closing Gate and Latch. Any gate or opening into an outdoor pool
enclosure shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices and
shall be closed and secured at all times, except that a doorway of a single-
family residence need not be so equipped.
§ 10-1-8 EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
Office of the City Clerk of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma, being marked and
designated as the International Existing Building Code, 2015 edition, including
all appendix chapters as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the Existing Building Code of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma
for regulating and governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy,
addition, and relocation of existing buildings, including historic buildings,
as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of
fees therefor, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Existing Building Code on file in the Office of
the Chandler City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in
the appropriate part thereof:
      Section 101.1 Insert: City of Chandler, Oklahoma
      Section 1401.2 Insert: January 3, 1980
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-12-2016)
CHAPTER 2: PLUMBING CODE
Section
   
10-2-1   Plumbing Code Adopted
   
10-2-2   Inconsistent Ordinances Repealed
   
10-2-3   Amendments to Code
   
10-2-4   Certificates of Registration
   
10-2-5   Permit Requirements
   
10-2-6   Plumbing Inspector; Inspection of Work
   
10-2-7   Nonliability of City for Damages
   
10-2-8   Water and Sewer Connections
   
10-2-9   Penalty
§ 10-2-1 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of
the City Clerk of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma, being marked and designated
as the International Plumbing Code, 2015 edition, including all appendix
chapters as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Plumbing Code of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma for regulating
and governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use of, or maintenance of plumbing systems as provided herein; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Plumbing Code on file in the Office of the Chandler City Clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
10-2-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-2-2 INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-2-3 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Section 106.6.2 Insert: City Fee Schedule, Chapter 10, Title 1 of the
Chandler City Code
   Section 106.6.3 Insert: Subparagraph 2-75%. Delete subparagraph 3
   Section 108.4 Insert: Misdemeanor punishable as set forth in Title 1,
Section 4-1 of the Chandler City Code
   Section 108.5 Insert: $100/$500
   Section 305.4.1 Insert in both locations: Not less than 18 inches
   Section 904.1 Insert: 6" (152 mm)
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-2-4 CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration of Plumbers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business,
trade, or occupation of a plumbing contractor, journeyman plumber, or plumbing
apprentice, by advertisement or otherwise, in the City, unless that person is
registered with the City and has purchased a current and valid certificate of
registration issued by the City.
      (2)   A contractor certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma State Department of Health contractor license.
Each firm shall have a contractor employed full time who is responsible for
planning, contracting, supervising, or furnishing of labor and/or materials
used in the trade. A contractor may not have more than three (3) apprentices
under direct “on the job” supervision.
      (3)   A journeyman certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma State Department of Health journeyman license.
A journeyman may not have more than three (3) apprentices under direct “on the
job” supervision.
      (4)   An apprentice certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma state department of health apprentice license.
An apprentice shall be under the direct “on the job” supervision of a licensed
and registered journeyman or contractor.
      (5)   Each person registered as a contractor, journeyman or apprentice
shall have such certificate of registration on his/her person while engaging in
the work of a contractor, journeyman or apprentice.
      (6)   Certificates of registration are nontransferable.
      (7)   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to property
owners working on his/her owner occupied single-family residence.
   (B)   Expiration and Renewal; Fees.
      (1)   Upon application to the city, the city shall register such
applicants and issue them certificates of registration in the applicable
category, after the applicant has complied with the laws of the state,
ordinances of the city, and paid the applicable fees set by the city council by
motion or resolution.
      (2)   The registration shall expire on June 30 of each year. Persons
desiring to renew their registration shall furnish the same evidence of
compliance with state law and city ordinance and pay the applicable fees set by
council by motion or resolution.
   (C)   Revocation of Registration; Hearing.
      (1)   The city council, upon at least ten (10) days’ notice and adequate
opportunity for a public hearing, may suspend or revoke the certificate of
registration of any contractor, journeyman or apprentice for violating any
provision of any ordinance or regulation relating to the installation of
plumbing materials or fixtures or registration of personnel.
      (2)   A request for a public hearing may be presented to council by the
code official or any aggrieved person.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-2-5 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with Adopted Code. Permits are required in accordance with
Section 106 of the International Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Application for Permit. Applications for permits shall be delivered to
city hall, 414 Manvel, and the applicant shall provide such plans,
specifications and any additional information as may be designated by the code
official.
   (C)   Fee. Upon approval of the application by the city, the applicant shall
pay the permit fee as set by city council by motion or resolution.
   (D)   Contractor Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the
plumbing contractor to obtain any required permits.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-2-6 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; INSPECTION OF WORK.
   (A)   Plumbing Inspector; Office Created, Powers and Duties.
      (1)   There shall be a plumbing inspector who shall be the code official.
The inspector shall have the powers and duties in accordance with Sections 103
and 104 of the International Plumbing Code.
      (2)   The plumbing inspector shall have the authority to make special
rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life or property.
The plumbing contractor and the property owner will be notified in writing of
special rulings.
      (3)   It is the authority of the plumbing inspector to inspect all
plumbing materials and fixtures for which a permit has been issued.
      (4)   The plumbing inspector shall have the right of entry as described
in Section 104.5 of the International Plumbing Code. Any person interfering
with the plumbing inspector shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   (B)   Inspection of Work.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
individual to conceal or cause to be concealed any work for which a permit is
required, until it is known by that person that the installation has been
approved by the city. Additionally, inspections are required in accordance with
Section 107 of the International Plumbing Code.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to request all
inspections. Such request shall be made at least twenty-four (24) hours prior
to the desired inspection time.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-2-7 NONLIABILITY OF CITY FOR DAMAGES.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended, nor shall they be
construed, so as to create liability or responsibility to any person, firm or
corporation on the part of any officer, employee or agent of the city or the
city itself by reason of the inspection of plumbing facilities nor the approval
or disapproval thereof.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-2-8 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to connect or cause to be connected
to a city water or sewer main, unless authorized by the city to do so.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-2-9 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate a provision of the International Plumbing Code
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to a fine as provided for in
section 1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 10-7-1997)
CHAPTER 3: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
10-3-1   Electrical Code Adopted
   
10-3-2   Inconsistent Ordinances Repealed
   
10-3-3   Amendments to Code
   
10-3-4   Certificates of Registration
   
10-3-5   Permit Requirements
   
10-3-6   Electrical Inspector; Inspection of Work
   
10-3-7   Nonliability of City for Damages
   
10-3-8   Electric Service Connection
   
10-3-9   Penalty
§ 10-3-1 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the Chandler city clerk, being marked and designated as the ICC Electrical Code
- Administrative Provisions, 2003 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the electrical code of the city of
Chandler, for regulating the design, construction, quality of materials,
erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement,
addition to, use or maintenance of electrical systems as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
electrical code on file in the office of the Chandler city clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out herein, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-3-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 12-7-2004)
§ 10-3-2 INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 10-3-3 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Section 404.2. Insert: city fee schedule, chapter 10, title 1 of the
Chandler city code
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 12-7-2004)
§ 10-3-4 CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration of Electricians.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business,
trade, or occupation of an electrical contractor, journeyman electrician, or
electrical apprentice, by advertisement or otherwise, in the city unless he is
registered with the city and has purchased a current and valid certificate of
registration issued by the city.
      (2)   A contractor certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma state department of health contractor license.
Each firm shall have a contractor employed full time who is responsible for the
planning, contracting, supervising, or furnishing of labor and/or materials
used in the trade. A contractor may have no more than two (2) apprentices under
direct “on the job” supervision.
      (3)   A journeyman certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma state department of health journeyman license.
A journeyman may not have more than two (2) apprentices under direct “on the
job” supervision.
      (4)   An apprentice certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma state department of health apprentice license.
An apprentice shall be under the direct “on the job” supervision of a licensed
and registered journeyman or contractor.
      (5)   Each person registered as a contractor, journeyman or apprentice
shall have such certificate of registration on his/her person while engaging in
the work of a contractor, journeyman or apprentice.
      (6)   Certificates of registration are nontransferable.
      (7)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Minor repairs consisting of repairing or replacing outlets or
minor working parts of electrical fixtures.
         (b)   Maintenance work for state and federal institutions.
         (c)   The construction, installation, maintenance, repair and
renovation of telephone equipment or computer systems used for the
communication of voice or data.
         (d)   Property owners working on his/her owner occupied single-family
dwelling.
   (B)   Expiration and Renewal; Fees.
      (1)   Upon application to the city, the city shall register such
applicants and issue them certificates of registration in the applicable
category, after the applicant has complied with the laws of the state,
ordinances of the city and paid the applicable fees set by the city council by
motion or resolution.
      (2)   The registration shall expire on June 30 of each year. Persons
desiring to renew their registration shall furnish the same evidence of
compliance with state law and city ordinance and pay the applicable fees set by
the city council by motion or resolution.
   (C)   Revocation of Registration; Hearing.
      (1)   The city council, upon at least ten (10) days’ notice and adequate
opportunity for a public hearing, may suspend or revoke the certificate of
registration of any contractor, journeyman or apprentice for violating any
provision of any ordinance or regulation relating to the installation of
electrical equipment or registration of personnel.
      (2)   A request for a public hearing may be presented to the city council
by the code official or any aggrieved person.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 10-3-5 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit Required. Electrical permits are required for any person to
install a new circuit, expand an existing circuit by three (3) or more devices,
or the addition, alteration or changing of a breaker box or fuse box exceeding
sixty (60) amperes. Such permits are required prior to beginning said work.
   (B)   Application for Permit. Applications for permits shall be made to the
city, and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications and other data
as may be required by the code official.
   (C)   Fee. Upon approval of the application by the city, the applicant shall
pay the permit fee as set by the city council by motion or resolution.
   (D)   Contractor Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the
electrical contractor to obtain any required permits.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 10-3-6 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; INSPECTION OF WORK.
   (A)   Electrical Inspector; Office Created, Powers and Duties.
      (1)   There shall be an electrical inspector who shall be the code
official.
      (2)   The electrical inspector shall have the authority to make special
rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life or property.
The electrical contractor and the property owner will be notified in writing of
special rulings.
      (3)   It is the authority of the electrical inspector to inspect all
electrical equipment for which a permit has been issued.
      (4)   The electrical inspector shall have the power to make an annual
inspection of all electrical equipment in commercial and public buildings in
the city. When any electrical installations are found to be in an unsafe or
hazardous condition, the electrical inspector shall notify the property owner
such electrical conditions exist, and advise the property owner to take
corrective action by placing electrical equipment in a safe condition. Any
person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to make correction of hazardous
or unsafe electrical installations, after having been notified by the
electrical inspector, shall be fined according to the provisions of this
chapter. Each day after the expiration of the time designated to make
corrections shall constitute a separate offense. When hazardous or unsafe
electrical conditions exist and any person, firm or corporation fails to make
corrections after having been notified, the electrical inspector shall have the
authority to order the utility company to discontinue the electric service.
      (5)   The electrical inspector, while in the discharge of his official
duty, shall have the authority to enter any building or premises at any
reasonable hour, for the purpose of making any electrical inspection,
reinspection, or test of the electrical equipment contained therein or its
installation; and any person interfering with the electrical inspector shall be
fined as provided for in this chapter; provided however, the inspector shall
not enter private residences not then under renovation without first obtaining
permission from an occupant thereof.
   (B)   Inspection of Work.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
individual to conceal or cause to be concealed any work for which a permit is
required, until it is known by that person that the installation has been
approved by the city.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to request all
required inspections. Such request shall be made at least twenty-four (24)
hours prior to the desired inspection time.
      (3)   New work “roughed in” shall include all electrical equipment to
make the installation complete, be free from unintentional grounds, with joints
properly made up, ready for the attachment of fixtures, drop lights and
appliances.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 10-3-7 NONLIABILITY OF CITY FOR DAMAGES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to affect the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling, or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or to property
caused by any defect therein, nor shall the city or any officer or employee of
the city, be held as assuming such liability by reason of the inspection or
reinspection as herein provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of
any equipment authorized herein.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 10-3-8 ELECTRIC SERVICE CONNECTION.
   It is unlawful for any public service corporation, any individual, any
light, heat, or power company to connect, or cause to be connected, any service
or building, for the supply of electric current for light, heat or power, until
they have been notified by the electrical inspector that the electrical work
has been inspected and is ready for electric service.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 10-3-9 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate a provision of the National Electrical Code
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to a fine as provided for in
section 1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 9-7-1993)
CHAPTER 4: MECHANICAL CODE
Section
   
10-4-1   Mechanical Code Adopted
   
10-4-2   Inconsistent Ordinances Repealed
   
10-4-3   Amendments to Code
   
10-4-4   Certificates of Registration
   
10-4-5   Permit Requirements
   
10-4-6   Mechanical Inspector; Inspection of Work
   
10-4-7   Nonliability of City for Damages
   
10-4-8   Service Connection
   
10-4-9   Penalty
§ 10-4-1 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of
the City Clerk of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma, being marked and designated
as the International Mechanical Code, 2015 edition, including all appendix
chapters as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Mechanical Code of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma for regulating
and governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems as provided herein; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Mechanical
Code on file in the Office of the Chandler City Clerk are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section 10-
4-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-4-2 INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-4-3 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Section 106.5.2 Insert: City Fee Schedule, Chapter 10, Title 1 of the
Chandler City Code
   Section 106.5.3 Insert: Subparagraph 2-75%. Delete subparagraph 3
   Section 108.4 Insert: Misdemeanor punishable as set forth in Title 1,
Section 4-1 of the Chandler City Code
   Section 108.5 Insert: $100/$500
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-4-4 CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration of Mechanical Workers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business,
trade, or occupation of a mechanical contractor, mechanical journeyman, or
mechanical apprentice, by advertisement or otherwise, in the City unless that
person is registered with the City and has purchased a current and valid
certificate of registration issued by the City.
      (2)   A contractor certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma State Department of Health contractor license.
Each firm shall have a contractor employed full time who is responsible for the
planning, contracting, supervising, or furnishing of labor and of materials
used in the trade. A contractor may not have more than three (3) apprentices
under direct “on the job” supervision.
      (3)   A journeyman certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma State Department of Health journeyman license.
A journeyman may not have more than three (3) apprentices under direct “on the
job” supervision.
      (4)   An apprentice certificate of registration shall be issued only to
those who have a valid Oklahoma State Department of Health apprentice license.
An apprentice shall be under the direct “on the job” supervision of a licensed
and registered journeyman or contractor.
      (5)   Each person registered as a contractor, journeyman or apprentice
shall have such certificate of registration on his/her person while engaging in
the work of a contractor, journeyman or apprentice.
      (6)   Certificates of registration are nontransferable.
      (7)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to property owners
working on his/her owner occupied single-family residence.
      (8)   Each contractor or journeyman certificate of registration shall be
issued in one or more of the following categories:
         (a)   Limited air conditioning: Entitles the certificate holder to
work with equipment that has a cooling capacity of not more than twenty-five
(25) tons or three hundred thousand (300,000) BTU.
         (b)   Unlimited air conditioning: Entitles the certificate holder to
work with equipment of any capacity.
         (c)   Limited heating: Entitles the certificate holder to work with
equipment that has a heat input of not more than five hundred thousand
(500,000) BTU or 143.5 kilowatts or a water temperature of not more than two
hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (210°F).
         (d)   Unlimited heating: Entitles the certificate holder to work with
equipment of any capacity.
         (e)   Natural gas piping: Entitles the certificate holder to work with
natural gas piping.
         (f)   Process piping: Entitles the certificate holder to work with
process piping.
         (g)   Refrigeration: Entitles the certificate holder to work with
refrigeration systems, including process piping.
         (h)   Sheet metal: Entitles the certificate holder to work with sheet
metal systems.
   (B)   Expiration and Renewal; Fees.
      (1)   Upon application to the city, the city shall register such
applicants and issue the appropriate type of certificate of registration, after
the applicant has complied with the laws of the state, ordinances of the city,
and paid the applicable fees set by the city council by motion or resolution.
      (2)   The registration shall expire on June 30 of each year. Persons
desiring to renew their registration shall furnish the same evidence of
compliance with state law and city ordinance and pay the applicable fees set by
council by motion or resolution.
   (C)   Revocation of Registration; Hearing.
      (1)   The city council, upon at least ten (10) days’ notice and adequate
opportunity for a public hearing, may suspend or revoke the certificate of
registration of any contractor, journeyman or apprentice for violating any
provision of any ordinance or regulation relating to the installation,
maintenance or repair of mechanical equipment or registration of personnel.
      (2)   A request for a public hearing may be presented to the city council
by the code official or any aggrieved person.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-4-5 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit Required. Permits are required in accordance with Section 106
of the International Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Application for Permit. Applications for permits shall be delivered to
city hall, 414 Manvel, and the applicant shall provide such plans,
specifications and any additional information as may be designated by the code
official.
   (C)   Fee. Upon approval of the application by the city, the applicant shall
pay the permit fee as set by the city council by motion or resolution.
   (D)   Contractor Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the
mechanical contractor to obtain any required permits.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-4-6 MECHANICAL INSPECTOR; INSPECTION OF WORK.
   (A)   Mechanical Inspector; Office Created, Powers and Duties.
      (1)   There shall be a mechanical inspector who shall be the code
official. The inspector shall have the powers and duties in accordance with
Sections 103 and 104 of the International Mechanical Code.
      (2)   The mechanical inspector shall have the authority to make special
rulings when the circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life or
property. The mechanical contractor and the property owner will be notified in
writing of special rulings.
      (3)   It is the authority of the mechanical inspector to inspect all
mechanical materials and equipment for which a permit has been issued.
      (4)   The mechanical inspector shall have the right of entry as described
in Section 104.5 of the International Mechanical Code. Any person interfering
with the mechanical inspector shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a
fine as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
   (B)   Inspection of Work.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
individual to conceal any work for which a permit is required, until it is
known by that person that the work has been approved by the city. Inspections
are required in accordance with Section 107 of the International Mechanical
Code.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the mechanical contractor to
request all mechanical inspections. Such requests shall be made at least
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the desired inspection time.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-4-7 NONLIABILITY OF CITY FOR DAMAGES.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended, nor shall they be
construed, so as to create liability or responsibility to any person, firm or
corporation on the part of any officer, employee or agent of the city or the
city itself by reason of the inspection of mechanical facilities nor the
approval or disapproval thereof.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-4-8 SERVICE CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual or company to connect or cause to be
connected any service until they have been notified by the inspector that such
work has been inspected and approved.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 10-4-9 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate a provision of the International Mechanical
Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to a fine as provided for in
section 1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 10-7-1997)
CHAPTER 5: RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
   
10-5-1   Residential Code Adopted
   
10-5-2   Amendments to Code
§ 10-5-1 RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of
the City Clerk of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma, being marked and designated
as the International Residential Code, 2015 edition, including all appendix
chapters as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Residential Code of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma for
regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached
one and two family dwellings and multiple single family dwellings (townhouses)
not more than three (3) stories in height with separate means of egress as
provided herein; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Residential Code on file in the Office of the
Chandler City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section 10-5-2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-5-2 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section R101.1 Insert: City of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Table R301.2(1) Insert: Design criteria to be determined and entered by Code
Enforcement Officer within 60 days of passage hereof
   Section P2603.5.1 Insert in both locations: Not less than 18 inches
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-12-2016)
CHAPTER 6: FIRE CODE
Section
   
10-6-1   Fire Code Adopted
   
10-6-2   Modifications
   
10-6-3   Enforcement by Fire Department
   
10-6-4   Storage Limits for Flammables and Explosives
   
10-6-5   New Materials, Processes or Occupancies; Permits
   
10-6-6   Appeals
   
10-6-7   Penalties
§ 10-6-1 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
Office of the City Clerk of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma, being marked and
designated as the International Fire Code, 2015 edition, including all appendix
chapters as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Fire Code of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma regulating and
governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards
arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials
and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy
of buildings and premises as provided herein; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Fire Code on file in the
Office of the Chandler City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection (B) of this
chapter.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in
the appropriate part thereof:
      Section 101.1 Insert: City of Chandler, Oklahoma
      Section 109.3 Insert: Misdemeanor punishable as set forth in Title 1,
Section 4-1 of the Chandler City Code
      Section 111.4 Insert: $100 to $500
   (C)   The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2015
International Fire Code are hereby established as follows: All such
jurisdictional limits shall be as set forth in the Zoning Code for the City of
Chandler, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-6-2 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Authority. The Chief of the Fire Department, with the approval of the
City Council, shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the Fire Code
upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized
agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of the Fire Code; provided, that the spirit of the Fire Code
shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Record Kept of Modifications. The particulars of such modification
when granted or allowed and the decision of the Fire Chief and City Council
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Council, and a signed copy
shall be furnished the applicant.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-6-3 ENFORCEMENT BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Authority; Definitions.
      (1)   The Fire Code shall be enforced by the Fire Department of the City,
under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the
Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The City
may appoint such inspectors as the City Council may authorize.
      (3)   The terms BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION and CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF FIRE
PREVENTION, wherever found in the Fire Code, shall mean Fire Department and
Chief of the Fire Department, respectively, of the City. Whenever the word
MUNICIPALITY is used in the Fire Code, it means the City of Chandler.
   (B)   Inspectors. The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members
of the Fire Department as inspectors as may from time to time be necessary.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-6-4 STORAGE LIMITS FOR FLAMMABLES AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Flammable Liquids.
      (1)   The limits referred to in section 16.22 of the Fire Code, in which
storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, are
hereby established as the City limits, but this provision shall not apply to
such tanks already in existence as of May 1, 1983.
      (2)   The limits referred to in section 16.51 of the Fire Code, in which
new bulk plants for flammable liquids are prohibited, are hereby established as
the City limits, but this provision shall not apply to plants already in
existence as of May 1, 1983.
   (B)   Liquefied Petroleum Gases. The limits referred to in section 21.6a of
the Fire Code, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum has been
prohibited, are hereby established as the City limits, but this provision shall
not apply to storage already in existence as of May 1, 1983.
   (C)   Explosives and Blasting Agents. The limits referred to in the Fire
Code, in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are
hereby established as the City limits, except as provided in the City’s zoning
regulations.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-6-5 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES; PERMITS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department and two (2) persons appointed by the Mayor,
with the approval of the City Council, shall act as a committee to determine
and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes, or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition
to those now enumerated in said code. The Fire Chief shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons.
§ 10-6-6 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the Fire Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code
have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from
the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the City Council within
thirty (30) days from the date of the decision.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-6-7 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Penalty Imposed.
      (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the Fire Code
hereby adopted or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the
City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
therein, shall severally for every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable by a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      (2)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time. When
not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Removal of Prohibited Conditions. The application of the above penalty
shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 4-12-2016)
CHAPTER 7: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
10-7-1   Property Maintenance Code Adopted
   
10-7-2   Inconsistent Ordinances Repealed
   
10-7-3   Amendments to Code
§ 10-7-1 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of
the City Clerk of the City of Chandler, Oklahoma, being marked and designated
as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, as published by
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Chandler for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the Office of the Chandler City Clerk are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-7-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 10-7-2 INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed, except the 1978 zoning ordinance, 1978 subdivision regulations, and
amendments thereto.
§ 10-7-3 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Section 103.5 Insert: City Fee Schedule, Chapter 10, Title 1 of the Chandler
City Code
   Section 112.4 Insert: $129.00 and $204.00
   Section 302.4 Insert: 12 Inches
   Section 304.14 Insert: April 1st to October 1st
   Section 602.3 Insert: September 1st to May 1st
   Section 602.4 Insert: September 1st to May 1st
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-12-2016)
CHAPTER 8: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
Section
   
10-8-1   Energy Conservation Code Adopted
   
10-8-2   Amendments to Code
   
10-8-3   General Standards
   
10-8-4   Mandatory Structural Requirements
   
10-8-5   Mandatory Mechanical and Plumbing Requirements
§ 10-8-1 ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the Chandler city clerk being marked and designated as the International Energy
Conservation Code, 2003 edition, including all appendix chapters, as published
by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the energy
conservation code of the city of Chandler for regulating and governing energy
efficient building envelopes and installation of energy efficient mechanical,
lighting and power systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said energy conservation code on
file in the office of the Chandler city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out herein, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-8-2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 11-2-2004)
§ 10-8-2 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Chandler, Oklahoma
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 11-2-2004)
§ 10-8-3 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   One- and Two-Family Dwellings. This standard establishes structural,
mechanical and plumbing criteria which are acceptable as minimum energy
conservation requirements for one- and two-family dwellings constructed in the
city. Compliance with criteria established in this standard is recognized as
full compliance with energy conservation standards of the city insofar as one-
and two-family dwellings are concerned.
   (B)   Minimum Construction Requirements. This standard provides minimum
construction requirements without further submission of detailed plans,
specifications and/or engineering calculations.
   (C)   Engineering Data. If all of the mandatory criteria outlined in this
standard are not met, it will be necessary to submit engineering data as
required by the several construction codes of the city.
§ 10-8-4 MANDATORY STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply:
   (A)   Ceilings. Minimum R-19. Approved batt or blown insulation may be used
to achieve the R-19 requirement.
   (B)   Outside Walls. Minimum R-11. This can be achieved by use of one or
more approved materials.
   (C)   Floors (Wood Over Unheated Spaces). R-9. Insulation to be held in
place as recommended by manufacturer.
   (D)   Foundation and Slab Insulation. R-5.5.
      (1)   This insulation shall extend downward from the top of the slab for
a distance of twenty-four inches (24"); if the stem wall is less than twenty-
four inches (24"), the difference is to be turned in at footing;
      (2)   The insulation may be installed downward to the bottom of the slab
then horizontally beneath the slab for a total minimum distance of twenty-four
inches (24"); or
      (3)   In the case of a monolithic slab foundation, the insulation may be
used on outside of the wall from the top of a slab downward to the footing.
   (E)   Windows. Windows shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the floor
area when single glazed. If larger area of glass is desired, double or triple
glazing must be utilized.
   (F)   Air Infiltration Reduction. Major areas of concern are exterior joints
between wall and foundation, and between wall cavities and window or door
frames. Exterior joints around windows and doors, between wall and roof,
between wall panels at penetrations or utility service through walls, and all
other openings in the exterior envelope shall be caulked, weather stripped, or
otherwise sealed. Vapor barriers are to be installed on heated side of the
envelope. Avoid double vapor barrier.
   (G)   Display of Card. A card signed by the contractor who installs any
insulation material is to be securely affixed to the structure adjacent to the
attic access. The card will display the following information:
      (1)   Name of installing contractor;
      (2)   Trade name of insulation(s);
      (3)   R factor for walls, ceiling, floor and/or slab; and
      (4)   Date of installation.
§ 10-8-5 MANDATORY MECHANICAL AND PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS.
   Compliance with the applicable energy conservation provisions of the city’s
adopted mechanical and plumbing codes will be enforced. Some specific examples
are listed below. Equipment should show necessary data on nameplate or attached
information sheets:
   (A)   Combustion Heating Equipment. All gas and oil fired comfort heating
equipment shall show a minimum combustion efficiency of seventy-five percent
(75%) at maximum rated output.
   (B)   Heat Pumps. Heat pumps when used for heating should have the following
minimum coefficient of performance (COP):
 
Source and Outdoor Temperature     Minimum COP
Air source 47 dry bulb/43 wet bulb 2.2
Air source 17 dry bulb/15 wet bulb 1.2
Water source 60 entering water     2.2
 
   (C)   Energy Efficiency Ratio. Minimum energy efficiency ratio (EER) and
coefficient of performance (COP) for electrically driven heating, ventilating
and air conditioning systems equipment when used for cooling:
 
Standard Rating Capacity             EER COP
Under 65,000 BTU/hour (19,050 watts) 6.1 6.8
65,000 BTU/hour and over             6.8 2.0
 
   (D)   Temperature Controls. Each heating system shall have at least one
adjustable thermostat for temperature regulation. Each thermostat shall be
capable of being set as follows:
      (1)   Where used to control heating only, a maximum setting of seventy-
five degrees Fahrenheit (75°F);
      (2)   Where used to control cooling only, a minimum setting of seventy
degrees Fahrenheit (70°F); and
      (3)   Where used to control both heating and cooling, the thermostat
shall have a maximum heating mode temperature setting of seventy-five degrees
Fahrenheit (75°F) and a minimum cooling mode temperature setting of seventy
degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) and shall be capable of operating the system heating
and cooling in sequence. For more sophisticated systems, refer to the
provisions of the city’s adopted mechanical and plumbing codes.
   (E)   Air Handling Duct System Insulation. All ducts outside the conditioned
area must have a minimum of two inches (2") insulation with a vapor seal.
   (F)   Hot Water Heaters. All automatic electric storage water heaters shall
have a standby loss not exceeding four (4) watts/two feet (2') of tank surface
area.
   (G)   Automatic Storage Heaters. All gas and oil fired automatic storage
heaters shall have a recovery efficiency, Er, not less than seventy-five
percent (75%) and have a standby loss percentage, S, not exceeding S = 2.3 +
67/V, where V = rated volume in gallons.
   (H)   Hot Water Heaters, Label. At this time, labels on domestic hot water
heaters in most retail outlets do not contain the information required by the
energy conservation code. However, most of the automatic storage tank hot water
heaters exceed these requirements. The labels should bear the AGA approval for
gas heaters or UL approval for electric heaters. All hot water heaters must be
automatic.
CHAPTER 9: FUEL GAS CODE
Section
   
10-9-1   Fuel Gas Code Adopted
   
10-9-2   Amendments to Code
§ 10-9-1 FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the Chandler city clerk, being marked and designated as the International Fuel
Gas Code, 2003 edition, including all appendix chapters, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the fuel gas code of
the city of Chandler for regulating and governing fuel gas systems and gas
fired appliances as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said fuel gas code on file in the office of
the Chandler city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out herein, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-9-2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 11-2-2004)
§ 10-9-2 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Section 106.5.2. Insert: city fee schedule, chapter 10, title 1 of the
Chandler city code
   Section 106.5.3. Insert: subparagraph 2-75%. Delete subparagraph 3.
   Section 108.4. Insert: misdemeanor punishable as set forth in title 1,
section 4-1 of the Chandler city code.
   Section 108.5. Insert: $100/$500
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 11-2-2004)
CHAPTER 10: MOBILE HOMES; TRAVEL TRAILERS; MANUFACTURED HOMES; PARKS
Section
   
10-10-1   Citation
   
10-10-2   Definitions
   
10-10-3   Freestanding Mobile Homes or Travel Trailers; Location
   
10-10-4   Nonresidential Mobile Trailers
   
10-10-5   Manufactured or Modular Home Subdivisions
   
10-10-6   Penalty; Injunctive Relief
§ 10-10-1 CITATION.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MOBILE HOME, TRAILER
PARK, MANUFACTURED OR MODULAR HOUSING RULES AND REGULATIONS of the city, and
addresses the following three (3) categories: mobile homes parks, trailer parks
(RV), and manufactured or modular home subdivisions.
§ 10-10-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CODE. The BOCA Basic Building Code adopted in chapter 1 of this
title.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the
city or his authorized representative.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower. For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a DEPENDENT
MOBILE HOME shall be considered to be the same as a dependent travel trailer,
unless otherwise specified.
   DEPENDENT TRAVEL TRAILER. A travel trailer which does not have a flush
toilet and a bath or shower.
   FIA or FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATOR AND FLOOD HAZARD MAP. See definition
of “flood insurance rate map (FIRM)” in section 13-1-3 of this code.
   FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER. Any mobile home or travel
trailer not located in a mobile home park or travel trailer park, respectively,
licensed by the city or in an approved mobile home subdivision.
   INDEPENDENT TRAVEL TRAILER. A travel trailer which has a flush toilet and a
bath or shower.
   MHI. Manufactured housing institute.
   MMH. Manufactured or modular housing.
   MANUFACTURED OR MODULAR HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and
intended for residential use where residence is in manufactured or modular
homes exclusively and manufactured or modular home lots are sold for occupancy.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers. Compliance with the Chandler
subdivision regulations is required. For the purpose of this chapter, the terms
MOBILE HOME and MANUFACTURED HOUSING are interchangeable for units larger than
three hundred twenty (320) square feet of floor space.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home and not located in a mobile home sales
lot.
   MOBILE OR MODULAR HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more
mobile homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MODULAR HOME. A single, detached dwelling designed or used as long term
living quarters, which is transported, after off site fabrication, to a site
where it is ready for occupancy and permanently located. A MODULAR HOME does
not have a chassis with axles and wheels, but is normally hauled to the
permanent home site and shall be placed on a prepared foundation.
   NATIONAL MOBILE HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS ACT OF 1974, SECTION
604. Means 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and regulations of the UN-16 department
of housing and urban development.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
   PARK. A mobile home park and/or travel trailer park.
   PERSON. Natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM or PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. Any such system built and owned
by, or dedicated to and accepted by, the city. All other such systems are
private.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and/or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities as
required by this chapter or desired by the park operator.
   SUBDIVISION. Mobile home subdivision unless otherwise indicated.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation use, including tent trailers and motor driven vehicles, and
“independent travel trailers” and “dependent travel trailers” as defined in
this section.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground on which two (2) or more travel
trailers occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located.
   TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer.
§ 10-10-3 FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES OR TRAVEL TRAILERS; LOCATION.
   (A)   Location Restricted. Except as hereinafter provided, no freestanding
mobile home or travel trailer shall be permitted in the city urban area unless
it is being offered for sale or parked for storage.
   (B)   Mobile Homes. Those freestanding mobile homes which are now
nonconforming uses under the provisions of the city zoning ordinance may
continue as nonconforming uses; provided, that they shall not be stored in
front yards or on side yards abutting a street on corner lots or on streets.
   (C)   Travel Trailers. No freestanding travel trailer shall be permitted in
the city urban area except in RV trailer parks or mobile home parks unless it
is being actively offered for sale or parked for storage; provided however,
that no travel trailer shall be stored in front yards or on side yards abutting
a street on corner lots or on streets, and further provided, that no water,
plumbing or permanent electrical connections shall be permitted.
   (D)   Offering for Sale; Storage.
      (1)   Except for mobile homes or travel trailers within regular
commercial RV or mobile home parks or sales lots or in other than an R-
1 residential district, each freestanding mobile home or travel trailer offered
for sale must be clearly marked as such, shall not be occupied for either
living or sleeping purposes and must be removed from the premises if not sold
within one hundred twenty (120) days.
      (2)   Freestanding mobile homes or travel trailers located within regular
commercial mobile home or travel trailer sales lots need be neither
individually marked for sale nor removed within one hundred twenty (120) days
if not sold.
      (3)   A property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored, more
than one mobile home or travel trailer on a residential lot.
      (4)   The property owner shall not actively offer for sale more than one
mobile home in any twelve (12) month period.
      (5)   Such mobile home or travel trailer shall not be stored in any
required front yard or side yard or public utility easement, nor shall such
mobile home or travel trailer project beyond the front of any building.
   (E)   Freestanding Mobile Homes in Rural Areas.
      (1)   Freestanding mobile homes shall be permitted in the city rural area
but only so permitted in agricultural zoning districts as established by the
city zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Such freestanding mobile homes must comply with normal city
regulations, and the specific qualifications to the housing code outlined for
mobile homes in the minimum housing code of the city.
§ 10-10-4 NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS.
   (A)   License Required.
      (1)   No nonresidential mobile trailer being used commercially shall be
permitted in the city unless a license for its operation is issued by the city.
Such license shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential mobile
trailer, the location of such operation and the termination date of the permit.
      (2)   No license shall be issued for a use which would violate any city,
state or federal ordinance, law or regulation.
   (B)   License Fee. An annual fee as established by the city’s fee schedule
shall be charged for each nonresidential mobile trailer license, which shall
expire on April 30 each year, and be renewable on May 1 of each year
thereafter.
   (C)   Contractors on Construction Sites; Watchmen.
      (1)   Operation of nonresidential trailers by contractors on construction
projects for which building permits have been issued or which are otherwise
approved by government units is permitted during the term of such construction
project without issuance of a license.
      (2)   Operation of a nonresidential trailer for the explicit use of a
caretaker or night watchman on a permanent basis is permitted, provided all
other regulations of this chapter are complied with.
      (3)   An annual fee as established by the city’s fee schedule shall be
charged each such nonresidential mobile trailer license, which shall expire on
April 30 each year and be renewable on May 1 of each year thereafter.
   (D)   Permanent Location Prohibited. This chapter is not to be construed as
permitting or authorizing the permanent location of any nonresidential mobile
trailer in the city.
§ 10-10-5 MANUFACTURED OR MODULAR HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with Subdivision and Zoning Regulations.
      (1)   Manufactured and modular home subdivisions shall comply with the
subdivision and zoning ordinances of the city, except as otherwise provided.
      (2)   The minimum size of an MMH subdivision shall be five (5) acres.
      (3)   No residence except MMH shall be permitted in an MMH subdivision.
      (4)   Manufactured or modular housing subdivisions may be placed in any
area zoned AG-2, R-2, C-1, or HC with planning commission review and council
approval.
      (5)   Manufactured housing units shall meet HUD requirements and modular
housing units will meet city building code requirements.
      (6)   These units shall follow the housing and zoning requirements of the
city in regard to the setback, height, foundation, smoke alarms, sewer and
water connection.
   (B)   Effective Lot Widths.
      (1)   Minimum effective lot widths in an MMH subdivision shall be forty
feet (40') measured at the front building line, and minimum lot areas shall be
three thousand two hundred (3,200) square feet; provided, that at least five
foot (5') side yards measured from drip line shall be provided on each lot
beyond any MMH and additions thereto, except driveways.
      (2)   In areas not serviced by the public sewer, the minimum additional
lot area shall be determined by the code enforcement officer on the basis of
safe and sanitary sewer service.
      (3)   The effective lot width of an MMH lot shall be determined by
measuring at right angles across the lot from one parallel side line to the
other parallel side line.
      (4)   For cul-de-sac or odd shaped lots, the effective width shall be
determined by measuring at the building line parallel with the street from one
vertical side line to the other vertical side line that enclose the obtuse
angles. However, the front lot width shall be not less than twenty-five feet
(25').
   (C)   Side Line of Lots.
      (1)   Side line of lots in MMH subdivisions need not be at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (2)   Regardless of the effective lot width, MMH subdivision lots must
abut a public street for at least twenty-five feet (25').
   (D)   Greenbelt Planting Strip.
      (1)   All MMH subdivisions shall provide suitable screening where
abutting single-family residential areas.
      (2)   A greenbelt area may be in the floodplain but may not be in a flood
hazard area.
   (E)   Floodplain and Flood Hazard Areas.
      (1)   No home site shall be in the flood hazard area.
      (2)   No home site shall be in the floodplain area without meeting all
federal insurance administration flood hazard regulations as adopted by the
city.
      (3)   A greenbelt area may be in the floodplain, but shall not be in the
flood hazard area (FIA map).
   (F)   Housing Units, Specific Requirements.
      (1)   All units must be permanently affixed to a foundation with a
legally identifiable portion of land owned in fee simple title and assume the
characteristics of residential property. To be permanently affixed to land,
each unit must be on a foundation permanently connected to water and sewer, set
up on the lot according to the manufacturer’s specifications, anchored to the
lot using certified anchors underpinned on all sides of the unit with a
compatible exterior covering material extending from the bottom of the unit to
the ground, and manufactured housing will have the wheels, axles and hitch
removed.
      (2)   All manufactured units must meet the federal mobile home
construction and safety standards (title VI, housing and community development
act of 1974) which became effective June 15, 1976. Modular housing must meet
the city’s building code.
      (3)   Exterior wall finish must be compatible to site built housing in
the local market. The finish will be real or simulated wood siding, stucco or a
combination of these finishes. The material may be metal or processed hardboard
such as masonite.
      (4)   There shall be a pitched roof (3 inches in 12 inches minimum) with
composition shingles.
      (5)   There shall be a ten inch (10") roof overhang.
      (6)   The minimum interior ceiling height shall be seven feet six inches
(7'6").
      (7)   The minimum unit size shall be seven hundred (700) square feet.
      (8)   Ten feet (10') shall be the minimum width.
      (9)   There shall be at least two (2) paved off street parking spaces as
required by the zoning ordinances.
      (10)   All units must meet zoning requirements for manufactured or
modular housing.
   (G)   City Permit Requirements. The city requires a building foundation
permit be applied for, including a listing of sizes, description and value of
the unit. Water tap fee, sewer tap fee, plumbing permits and electrical permits
are also required.
§ 10-10-6 PENALTY; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Penalty Imposed. Any person who shall engage in any business, trade or
vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or registration is required
by this chapter, without having a valid license, permit, certificate or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, or who shall
otherwise violate any provision of this chapter or of any code adopted by this
chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
   (B)   Relief in Courts. No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter
shall interfere with the right of the city also to apply to the proper courts
of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against
such person.
CHAPTER 11: OIL AND GAS WELLS
Section
   
10-11-1   Permits Required; Fees
   
10-11-2   Application for Permit
   
10-11-3   Supporting Documentation
   
10-11-4   Bond Requirement
   
10-11-5   Insurance Requirements
   
10-11-6   Justification for Refusal of Permit
   
10-11-7   Endangering Public Health
   
10-11-8   Preferential Permit Issuing
   
10-11-9   Operation of Well
   
10-11-10   Power Source for Pumping Units
   
10-11-11   Pollution Control
   
10-11-12   Chainlink Fence
   
10-11-13   Earthen Dikes
   
10-11-14   Revocation of Permit
   
10-11-15   Penalty
§ 10-11-1 PERMITS REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Operation or Abandonment Permit. It is an offense for any person,
partnership, association or corporation to drill, operate, maintain, or abandon
any oil and/or gas well within the corporate limits of the city, or to work
upon or assist in any way in such work, unless a permit for such work is
authorized by the city council.
   (B)   Pipelines; Equipment. No pipeline, equipment, appliance or any
structure shall be laid, constructed, erected, maintained or permitted to
remain in, or under any street, alley, or public way without a special permit
in writing from the city council.
   (C)   Fees. Every applicant shall pay an application fee to the city and an
annual operating fee payable within thirty (30) days after each anniversary
date of the permit. Such fees shall be as established by the city’s fee
schedule.
§ 10-11-2 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The permit required in section 10-11-1 of this chapter shall be issued only
to the owners of the oil and gas leasehold interest and every applicant for
such permit shall, at least ten (10) days prior to the proposed commencement of
such work, file a written application addressed to the city council for such
permit and such written application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of each owner of an interest in the oil and gas
lease under which such well is to be drilled, operated, maintained or
abandoned;
   (B)   The name and address of the person or firm in charge of the operation
and maintenance of such well;
   (C)   The name and address of the person or firm in charge of the work to be
done under such permit;
   (D)   The exact location of the well or proposed well where the drilling or
other work is to be performed; and
   (E)   That the owners of the leasehold interest and persons in charge of the
drilling, operation, maintenance or abandonment of such well are familiar with
the ordinances of the city and will abide by the provisions thereof.
§ 10-11-3 SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION.
   If the application is for a permit to drill a new well, the applicant shall
attach to his application exhibits reflecting the following:
   (A)   Exhibit A. Certificate by a bonded abstracter or an attorney at law
authorized to practice law in the state of Oklahoma, reflecting the names of
the owners of interest in the real estate situated within two hundred feet
(200') of such proposed well site;
   (B)   Exhibit B. A plat with detailed, scaled dimensions of the proposed
well location, lot and property lines within two hundred feet (200') of such
well site, with notation or reference thereon to the surface owner of all such
property as reflected by exhibit A;
   (C)   Exhibit C. A scale drawing of the proposed well site reflecting
proposed well location of drilling rig, motors, tanks and other principal
equipment to be used in the drilling of such well with reference being made to
property lines and structures (nature of structures being noted) located within
two hundred feet (200') of such well site; and
   (D)   Exhibit D. A scale drawing of proposed well site reflecting proposed
location of equipment, motors, tanks and other installations to be used in the
maintenance, operation and other work of such well with reference being made to
property lines and structures (nature of structures being noted) located within
two hundred feet (200') of such well site.
§ 10-11-4 BOND REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Bond Required; Amount. Every applicant, at the time of filing its
application, shall also submit a bond in favor of the city in the amount as
established by the city’s fee schedule and executed by the applicant and a
corporate surety authorized to do business within the state and conditioned
that the applicant shall:
      (1)   Repair immediately any damage to paving, sidewalks, streets,
alleys, curbing, parking, sewers or other public property arising out of any
work relating to the well, all in accordance with the requirements of the city
and its authorized representative and under his supervision;
      (2)   Pay all fees and sums due the city hereunder and comply and abide
by the ordinances of the city and laws of the state; and
      (3)   The city council may increase or reduce the amount of such bond
required at or after the issuance of such permit.
   (B)   Lapse of Bond; Operation Suspended. In case any bond required herein
shall lapse or become void for any reason whatsoever, the permit issued under
the terms of this chapter shall immediately become inoperative and void until a
new bond shall be provided and filed with the city clerk or the existing bond
reinstated in full force, and such well shall be shut down and all operations
and production thereof suspended and discontinued until the filing of such new
bond or reinstatement of such existing bond.
§ 10-11-5 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Insurance Required; Amounts. Each applicant shall also submit with its
written application a policy of public liability insurance, insuring the
applicant and the city against all claims or causes of action made against
either or both applicant and the city for damages to persons or property
arising out of the drilling, maintenance, operation or abandonment of such
well. The minimum amounts of such insurance shall be as established by the
city’s fee schedule.
   (B)   Notice to Applicant and City of Policy Change. Such insurance policy
shall contain a provision that the issuing company will not cancel or change
such policy of insurance except after thirty (30) days’ notice to the applicant
and the city.
§ 10-11-6 JUSTIFICATION FOR REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Location Near a Residence, Commercial Building, or Producing
Freshwater Well. No permit shall be granted for the drilling of a well or the
reentry into a plugged or abandoned well, if the well bore, or the exterior of
any tank batteries, pressure vessels, power stations, or other machinery,
facilities, or equipment of whatsoever nature is, or will be, located nearer
than four hundred feet (400') of any residence, commercial building, or
producing freshwater well. The four hundred feet (400') of separation from
residences and commercial buildings may be reduced to a distance of two hundred
feet (200') if written consent from all those having an interest in the surface
of the affected property within the reduced distance has been obtained and is
submitted with the drilling application. The four hundred feet (400') of
separation from a freshwater well may not be reduced. All distances specified
herein shall be measured from the production related item to the closest
exterior point of the residence, commercial building, or freshwater well.
   (B)   Location Near Another Well. No permit shall be granted for the
location of any vertical well within six hundred feet (600') of the location of
another well for which a permit had previously been granted. Subject to the
provisions of subsection (C) of this section, horizontally drilled wells may be
permitted in closer proximity than six hundred feet (600') if properly
authorized by state regulations and laws.
   (C)   Hazardous Conditions. The city council shall have the power and
reserves the authority to refuse any applicant for a permit where, by reason of
the location of the proposed well, its proximity to other wells, the character
and value of the permanent improvements in its vicinity, the use to which the
land and surroundings in proximity are adapted for civic or other purpose, or
for other reasons, the council considers such proposed well might constitute a
hazard to the public health, welfare and safety.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 2007-05, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 10-11-7 ENDANGERING PUBLIC HEALTH.
   Every permit granted by the city shall be conditioned that whenever, in the
judgment of the city council, the public health, welfare and safety is
endangered or threatened by reason of the drilling, operation, maintenance or
abandonment of the well, the council may, if such condition is not corrected
within thirty (30) days after written notice thereof is given to permittee,
direct the owners and operators of the well to cease and desist in the further
work relating to the well and make any further order as such council may deem
proper and requisite in the premises in order to remove or avoid such threat or
hazard to the public health, safety and welfare, whether or not occasioned by
such operator or owners.
§ 10-11-8 PREFERENTIAL PERMIT ISSUING.
   In case there be applications filed with the city clerk and pending at the
same time, for permits to drill in any one drilling area of the city, by more
than one applicant, the application shall be granted, if otherwise sufficient,
which shall be made by the person, association or corporation holding the
greater area of the ground in the area, by lease or other contract with the
owners, permitting the drilling thereon for oil or gas.
§ 10-11-9 OPERATION OF WELL.
   (A)   Protection of Freshwater Strata. The well shall be cased and casing
cemented from the top of the well hole to a depth not less than fifty feet
(50') below all freshwater strata encountered in the well and in a manner that
will protect such freshwater from contamination resulting from the drilling or
operation of the well. Notwithstanding a compliance or attempted compliance
with the foregoing requirements of this section, if it is later determined that
a freshwater strata exists in the well which has not been properly cased and
cemented to the extent and in the manner necessary to protect such freshwater
strata from contamination, the permittee shall take such measures as may be
necessary to so protect the freshwater strata.
   (B)   Notify City. The permittee shall notify the city at least twenty-four
(24) hours prior to running the pipe for such work, for the purpose of
permitting the authorized representatives of the city to inspect such pipe on
the location, and, at least two (2) hours and not more than three (3) hours
before commencing the procedure to cement such pipe, the city shall be notified
thereof in order that a representative of the city may observe such procedure.
§ 10-11-10 POWER SOURCE FOR PUMPING UNITS.
   Electric power motors only shall be used for pumping units, unless approval
for use of other power is granted upon special application and permit of the
city council.
§ 10-11-11 POLLUTION CONTROL.
   The permittee shall take every reasonable precaution to prevent the escape
of noxious fumes, gases, oil or other substances from the location of such
well.
§ 10-11-12 CHAINLINK FENCE.
   All pumps, tanks and equipment used in the operation of a completed well
shall at a minimum, be enclosed on all sides by a chainlink fence six feet (6')
high with steel posts, with four (4) strands of barbed wire above such fence.
The council may require more stringent fencing in areas near city improvements
or areas developed for residential or commercial use. During drilling
operations, a watchman shall be maintained on the premises at all times who
shall be charged with the responsibility of protecting the general public from
any hazard resulting from the conduct of such drilling operations. If such
watchman is not employed, then the entire well location shall be fenced as in
the operation of a completed well. If the property at issue is later developed,
any application to plat the property shall constitute an agreement by the
developer to fence the well at developer’s expense as required by the city
council.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 7-5-2005)
§ 10-11-13 EARTHEN DIKES.
   All tanks shall be surrounded by earthen dikes of sufficient height so as to
contain a capacity of fluid equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
capacity of such tanks. At well sites any portion of which are within three
hundred feet (300') of a city water supply, earthen dikes shall be constructed
surrounding all pumps, tanks and equipment of any nature to prevent, in the
city’s sole judgment, flooding thereof by said water supply.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 7-5-2005)
§ 10-11-14 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In the event permittee should violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or the order and direction of an authorized
representative of the city, acting pursuant to the authority granted herein,
the city council may cancel the permit or permits theretofore granted by the
city to the permittee, and the permittee shall cease and desist in any work
relating to any well, the permit for which has been canceled.
§ 10-11-15 PENALTY.
   It is an offense for any person, firm, association or corporation to
violate, or fail to comply with, any of the provisions of this chapter, and,
upon conviction thereof, such person, firm, association or corporation shall be
punished as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 12: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL CODE
Section
   
10-12-1   Private Sewage Disposal Code Adopted
   
10-12-2   Amendments to Code
§ 10-12-1 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the Chandler city clerk, being marked and designated as the International
Private Sewage Disposal Code, 2003 edition, including all appendix chapters, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
private sewage disposal code of the city of Chandler for regulating and
governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of individual sewage disposal systems as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said private sewage disposal code on file in the office
of the Chandler city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out herein, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-12-2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 11-2-2004)
§ 10-12-2 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised to insert the following in the
appropriate part thereof:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Chandler, Oklahoma
   Section 106.4.2. Insert: city fee schedule, chapter 10, title 1 of the
Chandler city code
   Section 106.4.3. Insert: subparagraph 2-75%. Delete subparagraph 3.
   Section 108.4. Insert: misdemeanor punishable as set forth in title 1,
section 4-1 of the Chandler city code.
   Section 108.5. Insert: $100/$500
   Section 405.2.5. Insert: date to be determined by the code enforcement
officer.
   Section 405.2.6. Insert: date to be determined by the code enforcement
officer.
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 11-2-2004)
TITLE 11: ZONING REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
1.    PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS
         
2.    ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
         
3.    PLANNING COMMISSION
         
4.    BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
         
5.    ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
         
6.    AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
         
7.    RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
         
8.    COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
         
9.    INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
         
10.    F FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
         
11.    GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
         
12.    OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
         
13.    NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
         
14.   AMENDMENTS
         
15.    ANNEXATION; ZONING CLASSIFICATION
         
16.    SIGNAGE
CHAPTER 1: PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS
Section
   
11-1-1   Citation
   
11-1-2   Purpose
   
11-1-3   Nature and Application
   
11-1-4   Interpretation of Words and Terms
   
11-1-5   Definitions
§ 11-1-1 CITATION.
   This title, in pursuance of the authority granted by the legislature of the
state of Oklahoma in 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq., shall be known as the ZONING
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CHANDLER, or as the CHANDLER ZONING CODE and may be
cited by either phrase.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-1-2 PURPOSE.
   The regulations contained herein are necessary to encourage the most
appropriate uses of land; to maintain and stabilize the value of property; to
reduce fire hazards and improve public safety and safeguard the public health;
to decrease traffic congestion and its accompanying hazards; to prevent undue
concentration of population; to provide adequate light and air circulation, and
to create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses upon which to plan
for transportation, water supply, sewerage, schools, parks, public utilities,
and other facilities. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
title, they shall be held to be necessary for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-1-3 NATURE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Scope. This title classifies and regulates the use of land, buildings,
and structures within the city limits as hereinafter set forth. The regulations
contained herein are necessary to promote the health, safety, convenience, and
welfare of the inhabitants by dividing the city into zones and regulating
therein the use of the land and the use and size of buildings as to height and
number of stories, the coverage of the land by buildings, the size of yards and
open spaces, the location of buildings, and the density of population.
   (B)   Compliance Required. Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, no land
shall be used and no building, structure, or improvement shall be made,
erected, constructed, moved, altered, enlarged, or rebuilt which is designed,
arranged or intended to be used or maintained for any purpose or in any manner
except in conformity with the regulations contained herein.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-1-4 INTERPRETATION OF WORDS AND TERMS.
   For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are to be used and
interpreted as defined hereinafter. Words used in the present tense shall
include the future tense; words in the singular number include the plural; and
words in the plural number include the singular, except where the natural
construction of the writing indicates otherwise. The word “shall” is mandatory
and not directory.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-1-5 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental
to that of a main building and located on the same lot therewith.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to
the principal use of land or buildings and located upon the same lot therewith.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. Any business entity or enterprise having a
primary purpose of selling, renting, displaying or showing sexually explicit
materials, or in some other manner having a regular and substantial course of
conduct in which sexually explicit materials are involved in a commercial
context, whether involving records of any media format or live presentations.
   ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. Any cloth, card, paper, metal, glass, wooden,
plastic, plaster, stone or other sign, device or structure of any character
whatsoever, including a statuary, placed for outdoor advertising purposes on
the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building or
structure. The term PLACED shall include erecting, constructing, posting,
painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or otherwise
fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of an
advertising structure shall be determined as the area of the largest cross
section of such structure. Neither directional, warning nor other signs posted
by public officials in the course of their public duties nor merchandise or
materials being offered for sale shall be construed as advertising signs for
the purpose of this definition.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, aquaculture, forestry, animal and poultry
husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing
the product; provided however, that the operation of any such accessory use
shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities; and provided
further, that the above uses shall not include the commercial feeding of swine
or other animals, stockyards, or commercial feedlots for cattle.
   ALLEY. A minor  right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   APARTMENT HOUSE or MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A single detached dwelling
designed for and occupied by three (3) or more families living independently of
each other as separate housekeeping units, including apartment houses,
apartment hotels and flats, but not including auto or trailer courts or camps,
hotels, or resort type hotels.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story when more than one-half (1/
2) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The board of adjustment for the city of Chandler,
wherever it appears herein. This is a quasi-judicial body, charged with the
responsibility of deciding individual cases: a) in which an error by a zoning
official is alleged to have occurred, or b) in exceptional circumstances, a
variance of this zoning code may be required when through no fault of the
landowner, unusual topographical or other conditions renders the property
substantially unusable and the spirit of the zoning code can be preserved if
some adjustments to its specific application to the property can be made, or c)
where the zoning code authorizes special exceptions and the landowner is
applying for such a grant on specific property.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three (3) or more persons not members of a family.
   BUILDING. Any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure for
persons, animals or chattels. When separated by dividing walls without
openings, each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof, or
to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any residential district any dwelling shall be
deemed to be a main building on the lot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING SITE. A single parcel of land under one ownership, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
   CHILDCARE CENTER. Any place, home, or institution which receives more than
three (3) children under the age of sixteen (16) years, and not of common
parentage, for care apart from their natural parents, legal guardians or
custodians when received for regular periods of time for compensation; provided
however, this definition shall not include public and private schools
organized, operated or approved under the laws of this state, custody of
children fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction, children related by blood
or marriage within the third degree to the custodial person, or to places of
worship or other religious or public institutions caring for children within
the institutional building while their parents or legal guardians are attending
services or meetings or classes or engaged in religious activities.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The official plan of the city; also refers to the
specific document “Chandler comprehensive plan” adopted 2005 and all subsequent
amendments.
   COVERAGE. The lot area covered by all buildings located therein, including
the area covered by all overhanging roofs.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. Any section or sections of the city for which the
regulations governing the use of land and the use, density, bulk, height, and
coverage of buildings and other structures are uniform.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. Any establishment where food, frozen dessert and/or
beverage is sold to the consumer where such food, frozen dessert, and/or
beverage is intended to be consumed in the motor vehicle parked upon the
premises or anywhere on the premises outside of the building.
   DRY CLEANING OR LAUNDRY, SELF-SERVICE. Any attended or unattended place,
building or portion thereof, available to the general public for the purpose of
washing, drying, extracting moisture from, or dry cleaning wearing apparel,
cloth fabrics, and textiles of any kind by means of a mechanical appliance
which is operated primarily by the customer.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including house trailers.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A detached building designed for occupancy by three (3)
or more families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or
trailer courts or camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed to be occupied by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building designed to be occupied by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
   FAMILY. A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
marriage or living together as a single housekeeping unit, for culinary
purposes, as distinguished from a temporary group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, hotel, motel, fraternity house, or sorority house for limited
periods of time.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in water
overtopping its banks and inundating areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood hazard area located outside the
floodway.
   FLOOD FRINGE DISPLACEMENT, ALTERNATIVE IMPROVEMENTS. The channel
improvements in the floodway which are required to prevent increased flooding
resulting from the reduced floodwater storage capacity in the flood fringe area
due to filling or other floodproofing or development of the flood fringe area.
   FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICT OR AREA. All of the land within the jurisdiction which
is subject to inundation by a flood having an average frequency of occurrence
in the order of once in one hundred (100) years, although the flood may occur
in any year. More accurately, the flood will occur in the event of a heavy rain
having a statistical probability of occurring only one percent (1%) per year.
The FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICT includes both the floodway and the flood fringe.
   FLOODWAY. The stream channel and adjacent area that provides for the
downstream movement of the 100-year maximum flood at a rate of one-tenth foot
(1/10') per second or greater.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all of the
floors of a building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2) buildings, and
including, but not limited to, the following spaces:
      (1)   Basements.
      (2)   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor.
      (3)   Floor space for mechanical equipment with structural headroom of
seven feet (7').
      (4)   Penthouses.
      (5)   Attic space providing headroom of seven feet (7') or more.
      (6)   Interior balconies, mezzanines and enclosed covered porches and
enclosed steps.
      (7)   Accessory uses in enclosed covered space, but not including space
used for off street parking.
      (8)   Garages, carports, covered patios, breezeways.
   FLOOR AREA, NET. The total floor area within a building devoted or intended
to be devoted to a particular use, with structural headroom of seven feet (7')
or more, whether above or below the finished lot grade, excluding: a)
elevators, stairwells, hallways, walls and partitions; and b) floor space
permanently devoted to a parking space or parking spaces, mechanical equipment,
closets, washrooms, or other items permanently preventing the floor space from
being occupied by persons while engaged in the use.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. A mathematical expression determined by dividing the gross
floor area of a building by the area of the lot on which it is located, as:
Floor area/lot area = FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private
garage.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any building, or portion thereof, which exceeds nine
hundred (900) square feet in area, used for the storage of three (3) or more
motor vehicles in which any working and servicing which may be provided are
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities
are not provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building, used or intended for use by the occupants of the premises for storage
of passenger vehicles, trailers, and boats.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair, or equipping of motor vehicles.
   GASOLINE SERVICE OR FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures
thereon, that is used for: a) the retail sale of gasoline or oil fuels, but not
butane or propane fuels, or other automobile accessories, and b) incidental
services including facilities for lubricating, hand washing and cleaning, or
otherwise servicing automobiles, but not including painting, major repair or
automatic laundry.
   HEIGHT OF A SIGN, HIGH, OR IN HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from
the elevation of the nearest sidewalk, or, if there is no sidewalk within
twenty-five feet (25'), from the lowest point of the finished grade on the lot
upon which the sign is located and within twenty-five feet (25') of the sign,
to the uppermost point on the sign or the sign structure, whichever is higher.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by the inhabitants
of a dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof
(i.e., increased traffic congestion, excessive parking requirements, overloaded
utilities, and carrying capacities), and which is conducted entirely within the
main or accessory buildings; and provided, that there is no outside display of
merchandise, or sign other than one nonilluminated nameplate not more than two
(2) square feet in area attached to the main or accessory building, and no
mechanical equipment is used, except as is customarily used in purely domestic
or household purposes, or activity is conducted which creates noise, dust,
odor, or electrical disturbance beyond the confines of the lot on which the
occupation is conducted. Small appliance repair shops, telephone answering
service, taxicab dispatch service, ceramic/gift shops, internet sales, and real
estate offices shall be considered acceptable HOME OCCUPATIONS. The conducting
of a tearoom or restaurant, rest home, clinic, childcare center, tourist home,
or cabinet, metal, or auto repair shop shall not be deemed a home occupation.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
(6) or more sleeping rooms occupied, intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation, but not including an auto or trailer court or camp,
sanatorium, hospital, asylum, orphanage or building where persons are housed
under restraint.
   JUNKYARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvage materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, bailed, packed, disassembled or handled, including all
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards for
storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment, but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvage material
incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL, BOARDING OR TRAINING. Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more
domestic animals more than six (6) months of age are kept for boarding or
training.
   LOADING SPACE. A space on the same lot as the principal use of at least nine
feet (9') in width and thirty feet (30') in length and having a vertical
clearance of at least fifteen feet (15'), designated for the temporary parking
of commercial vehicles while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one building,
or a group of buildings, and its accessory buildings and uses, including such
open spaces as required by this title and other laws or ordinances and having
its principal frontage on a street.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two (2) adjacent sides abut for their
full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection
of such two (2) sides is less than one hundred thirty-five degrees (135).
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two (2) nonintersecting sides abutting on two (2) or more
streets.
   LOT FRONTAGE. That dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a “lot” as defined herein.
   MARQUEE. A permanent rooflike structure which projects beyond the building
wall and is attached to and supported by the building and projecting over
public or private property.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES. Any convalescent home, rest home, nursing home, dental
clinic, medical clinic, dental office, doctor’s office, hospital, public health
center, sanatorium, or some combination thereof.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for long term
occupancy and containing sleeping accommodations and designed for
transportation, after fabrication, on its own wheels with the carriage frame
for transportation being an integral part of the construction of the unit
including axles, wheels, and hitch, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling, complete or ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other
temporary or permanent foundations, and connection to utilities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Land or property which is used or intended to be used or
rented for occupancy by one or more trailers or movable sleeping quarters of
any kind.
   MODULAR. A single, detached dwelling designed or used as long term living
quarters, which is transported, after off site fabrication, to a site where it
is ready for occupancy and permanently located.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. See definition of APARTMENT HOUSE or MULTIPLE-
FAMILY DWELLING.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does
not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood or rainfall commonly thought to have an average
statistical frequency of occurrence in the order of once in one hundred (100)
years, although the flood or rainfall may actually occur in any year. More
accurately, it is the flood that will occur in the event of a heavy rain having
a statistical probability of occurring only one percent (1%) per year.
   OPEN SPACE. Area included in any side, rear or front yard or any other
occupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky, except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and eaves or porches.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The planning commission for the city of Chandler,
wherever it appears herein. The planning commission is a legislative committee
that holds hearings and renders advisory opinions to the city council on
matters of zoning, with particular reference to changes of zoning regulations,
changes of district boundaries, platting and related issues. From time to time,
the council may provide for final decision making authority to be exercised by
this body. The planning commission will also render decisions in all
applications for a special use permit under the terms of this zoning code.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three (3) or more, but not exceeding twelve (12), persons. A building that has
accommodations for more than twelve (12) persons shall be defined as a “hotel”
under the terms of this title.
   SALVAGE YARD. An area outside of a building where motor vehicles,
appliances, construction materials and machinery are disassembled, dismantled,
junked, or “wrecked”, or where motor vehicles not in operable condition or used
parts of motor vehicles are stored.
   SETBACK. The distance between the lot line and the building line.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area of a sign or device on which the copy is to be
placed, expressed in square feet. In the case of an irregularly shaped sign,
the area of the sign shall be the entire area within a single continuous
rectilinear perimeter of not more than eight (8) straight lines, enclosing the
extreme limits of the sign copy area together with any material or color
forming an integral part or background of the display. Sign supporting
structures for freestanding signs that are so arranged as not to become a part
of the attention attracting aspect of the sign shall not be included in the
area calculation. Where a sign has two (2) faces which are joined in either a
“V” shape or a triangle and the faces form an interior angle not to exceed
sixty (60) degrees, only the one largest face shall be used in the calculation.
The maximum display surface area of a double faced sign, which faces are not
more than thirty-six inches (36") apart, shall be calculated on the basis of
only one sign face.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan drawn at a scale of not less than one inch
equals fifty feet (1" = 50') which shows the topographic characteristics of the
site at contour intervals of not less than one inch equals one foot (1" = 1');
the location and dimensions of buildings, yards, courts, landscape, pedestrian
and vehicular circulation and parking, fences and screening; service areas and
courts and other features; the use of each building and area; the height of
buildings; adjacent streets, alleys, utility drainage and other easements; and
the relationship of the development to adjacent areas which it may affect.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. There are some uses that are not allowed as a matter of
right, but which may be generally compatible with certain specified zoning
districts. Because they have features that tend to dominate the district or to
create special problems, the problems need to be adequately addressed by the
imposition of certain conditions or requirements on the use. The planning
commission may impose special conditions that address the problems identified,
and issue a permit conditioned on the implementation of those requirements.
   STORY. That portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area is
finished off for use. A HALF STORY containing independent apartment or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   STREET. Any public or private thoroughfare that affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street that joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the
ground.
   TOURIST COURT. An area containing one or more structures designed or
intended to be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient
families and intended primarily for automobile transients.
   TRAILER, HAULING. A vehicle to be pulled behind an automobile or truck which
is designed for hauling animals, produce, goods or commodities, including
boats.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL OR CAMPING. A portable or mobile living unit used for
temporary human occupancy away from the primary place of residence of the
occupants, and not constituting the principal place of residence of the
occupants.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except where otherwise specifically provided in this title that
buildings or structures may be located in a portion of a yard required for a
main building. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of
the side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the
shortest horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall
be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard located in front of the front elevation of a building
and extending across a lot between the side lot lines and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front property line and the outside wall of the
main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between side
lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On both corner lots and interior
lots, the REAR YARD shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from
the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the outside wall of the side of
the main building.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
11-2-1   Responsibility for Enforcement
   
11-2-2   Building Permit or Certificate of Occupancy
   
11-2-3   Procedure for Uses Permitted on Review
   
11-2-4   Platting Requirement
   
11-2-5   Violations and Penalties
§ 11-2-1 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer, appointed by the city
manager, to enforce this title. If the code enforcement officer shall find that
any of the provisions of this title are being violated, he shall indicate the
nature of the violation and order the action necessary to correct it, and shall
take such other action as is authorized by law to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violations of its provision.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-2-2 BUILDING PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be a violation of this title for any person to change or allow the
change in the use of land or buildings or structures or to erect, alter, move
or improve any building or structure until a building permit or certificate of
occupancy has been obtained under the following conditions:
   (A)   Building Permits. Whenever any structure or building is to be improved
in an amount exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), or erected, moved, or
structurally altered, a building permit shall be obtained from the code
enforcement officer. The code enforcement officer may require every applicant
for a building permit to furnish the following information:
      (1)   A plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the exact size, shape, and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot
of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact size and location on
the lot of the structure or building proposed to be repaired, altered, erected
or moved and the size, arrangement, number of parking stalls, movement of
vehicles and ingress and egress drives for all off street parking and loading
facilities.
      (2)   A declaration of the existing and intended use of each existing and
proposed building or structure on the lot and the number of families and
housekeeping units which each existing building accommodates and which each
existing and proposed building is designed to accommodate.
      (3)   Additional information relating to the proposed improvement needed
to determine compliance with this title.
      (4)   A survey prepared by an engineer registered in the state of
Oklahoma of the boundaries of the lot on which the improvement is proposed to
be located.
   (B)   Certificate of Occupancy. Any change in the use of a building which
requires a certificate of occupancy shall be made public by posting notice of
such change on the affected property seven (7) days before the certificate is
issued. Such posted notice shall be by a sign placed on the property affected
by such proposed change in use, and the lettering thereon shall be of
sufficient size as to be clearly visible and legible from the public street or
street toward which it faces. It shall contain information giving the current
use, the change in use, the zoning classification, the date the certificate of
occupancy shall take effect and any other information as deemed necessary to
provide adequate and timely notice.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-2-3 PROCEDURE FOR USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   (A)   Conditional Use Permit Required. For such uses listed under the
various districts herein “uses permitted on review”, their use is permitted
subject to requiring a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Procedure. The uses designated under various districts herein as “uses
permitted on review” are so classified because they more intensely affect the
area in which they are located than do other uses permitted in the district;
however, the nature of such uses makes it desirable that they be permitted to
locate therein. The following procedure is established to add conditional uses
upon review with the other land uses located in the district. These uses shall
be added or deleted and authorized or rejected under the following procedure:
      (1)   An application shall be filed with the planning commission for
adding or deleting a use permitted upon review. Such application shall show the
location and intended use of the site, the names of all the property owners and
existing land uses within three hundred feet (300'), limits of access or routes
of entry between the public streets and the on site parking for the property,
and any other material pertinent to the request that the planning commission
may require.
      (2)   The planning commission shall hold one or more public hearings
thereon in conformity with state law.
      (3)   The planning commission shall, within forty-five (45) days of the
date of application, transmit to the city council its report as to the effect
of such proposed use upon the character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, public utilities and other matters pertaining to the general
welfare and the recommendation of the planning commission concerning the same.
The city council may authorize or deny an amendment to the uses permitted only
upon review of the planning commission’s recommendation within the particular
district.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-2-4 PLATTING REQUIREMENT.
   For the purposes of providing a proper arrangement of streets and assuring
the adequacy of open space for traffic, utilities, and access of emergency
vehicles, commensurate with the intensification of land use customarily
incidental to a change of zoning, a platting requirement is established as
follows:
   For any land which has been rezoned upon application of a private party, no
building permit or zoning clearance permit shall be issued until that portion
of the tract on which the permit is sought has been included within a
subdivision plat or replat, as the case may be, submitted to and approved by
the Chandler city council upon the recommendations of the planning commission,
and filed of record in the office of the county clerk where the property is
situated; provided, that the city council, upon the recommendation of the
planning commission, may remove the platting requirement upon a determination
that the above stated purposes have been achieved by previous platting or could
not be achieved by a plat or replat.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-2-5 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A violation of this title shall be deemed an offense and shall be punishable
by fine. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this title shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 3: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
11-3-1   Board Created; Membership; Terms
   
11-3-2   Rules of Procedure
   
11-3-3   Appeals
   
11-3-4   Powers
§ 11-3-1 BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created for the city a planning commission
with the powers and duties as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Membership; Terms. The planning commission shall be composed of five
(5) members, citizens of the city, each appointed by the mayor with the
approval of the city council for a term of three (3) years; provided however,
that existing appointees shall continue to serve for the remainder of their
current term. All appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three (3)
years.
   (C)   Chairman. The planning commission shall elect a chairman from its
membership to serve for a term of two (2) years.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-3-2 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Rules. The planning commission shall adopt rules in accordance with
the provisions of this title, so long as they are in conformity with
chapter 14  of this title.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of the planning commission shall be held at the call of
the chairman and at such other times as the planning commission may determine.
      (2)   The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (3)   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
      (4)   The planning commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the city clerk and shall be a public record.
      (5)   The concurring vote of a simple majority of those present and
voting shall be necessary to transact any business.
      (6)   The failure to act within the time allotted, not to exceed seventy-
five (75) days shall be treated as a recommendation to deny, unless the
applicant agrees to the delay.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-3-3 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals. Appeals to the city council may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the planning commission.
   (B)   Notice of Appeal; Filing Fee. Such appeal shall be taken within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision by filing with the city clerk a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds thereof and by paying a filing fee at the
office of the clerk, at the time the notice is filed, and in an amount fixed by
city council resolution.
   (C)   Record of Action Appealed. The planning commission staff shall
forthwith transmit to the city council the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-3-4 POWERS.
   The planning commission shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Regulations. To consider and make recommendations on any proposed
changes to the regulations of this zoning code, or any amendment to or other
change in the various zoning districts or zoning maps.
   (B)   Special Uses. To permit and authorize the uses listed in chapters 6
through 10 of this title, the specific district regulations as “uses permitted
on review”. These uses are so classified because they more intensely dominate
the area in which they are located than do other uses permitted in the
district; however, the nature of such uses may make it desirable that they be
permitted to locate therein. The following procedure is established to
integrate properly the uses permitted on review with the other land uses
located in the district. These uses shall be permitted and authorized or
rejected under the following procedure:
      (1)   An application shall be filed with the planning commission for
review. For each application for a special permit under “uses permitted on
review”, a fee in an amount fixed by city council resolution shall be paid to
the city clerk. Said application shall show the location and intended use of
the site, the names of all the property owners and existing land uses within
three hundred feet (300'), and any other material pertinent to the request
which the planning commission may require.
      (2)   The planning commission shall hold one or more public hearings
thereon in conformity with state law.
      (3)   The planning commission shall, within forty-five (45) days of the
date of application, study the effect of such proposed building or use upon the
character of the neighborhood, actual and anticipated traffic conditions,
public utilities, the supply of light and air to adjacent property, the public
safety from fire and other hazards, the established property values within the
surrounding area, and upon other factors relating to the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and general welfare of the people of the city, and authorize or
deny the issuance of a permit for the use of land or buildings as requested. In
making any determination whether uses permitted on review may be allowed in any
particular location within a zoning district as more fully described in this
title, the spirit of this zoning code must be preserved, but the special
dominance or problems associated with a particular use may be mitigated if
conditions or additional restrictions are imposed. The planning commission may
consider such conditions and restrictions, so long as similar special uses are
given the same, nondiscriminatory consideration. All such requirements relative
to such property shall be such as is necessary and convenient to carry out the
purpose and intent of this title.
   (C)   Plats. To review all preliminary plats and all final plats, rendering
such advice and recommendations to the city council as may be reasonable and
appropriate to carry out the purposes of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 4: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Section
   
11-4-1   Board Created; Membership; Terms
   
11-4-2   Rules of Procedure
   
11-4-3   Appeals to Board
   
11-4-4   Powers
   
11-4-5   Procedure
   
11-4-6   Appeal to District Court
§ 11-4-1 BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created for the city a board of adjustment
with the powers and duties as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Membership; Terms. The board of adjustment shall be composed of five
(5) members, citizens of the city, each appointed by the mayor with the
approval of the city council for a term of three (3) years; provided however,
that existing appointees shall continue to serve for the remainder of their
current term. All appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three (3)
years.
   (C)   Chairman. The board of adjustment shall elect a chairman from its
membership to serve for a term of two (2) years.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-4-2 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Rules. The board of adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with
the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of the board of adjustment shall be held at the call of
the chairman and at such other times as the board of adjustment may determine.
      (2)   The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (3)   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
      (4)   The board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the city clerk and shall be a public record.
      (5)   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance, or to effect any
variation in such ordinance.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-4-3 APPEALS TO BOARD.
   (A)   Appeals to Board. Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by
any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city
affected by any decision of the zoning enforcement officer.
   (B)   Notice of Appeal; Filing Fee. Such appeal shall be taken within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision by filing with the officer from whom
the appeal is taken and with the city clerk a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof and by paying a filing fee in an amount fixed by city council
resolution at the office of the clerk at the time the notice is filed.
   (C)   Record for Action Appealed. The officer from whom the appeal is taken
shall forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (D)   Stay of Proceedings.
      (1)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer, from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
the officer, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
the officer’s professional opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the board of adjustment or by a court
of record on application and notice to the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and on the cause shown.
   (E)   Time for Hearing; Notice.
      (1)   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of the appeal, giving public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time.
      (2)   Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by attorney.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-4-4 POWERS.
   The board of adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Errors. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official in the interpretation or enforcement of this title.
   (B)   Variances. Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or
shape of a specific parcel of property at the time of the adoption of the
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions or other
extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a specific parcel of
property, which condition is not generally prevalent in the area: 1) the strict
application of this title would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardship upon, the owner of such
property, 2) such conditions are peculiar to the land involved, and 3) the
relief would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the
purposes and intent of this zoning ordinance or the comprehensive plan, then
the board is empowered to authorize a variance from the regulations to ease
such difficulties or hardship, but may establish such requirements relative to
such property as would carry out the purpose and intent of this title, and do
substantial justice. Provided that the relief granted shall be the minimum
necessary to relieve the hardship.
   (C)   Special Exceptions. Upon appeal, the board is hereby empowered to
permit the following exceptions:
      (1)   Extension of District. To permit the extension of a district where
the boundary line of a district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of
record.
      (2)   Street Layout. To interpret the provisions of this title where the
street layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on
the map fixing the several districts, which map is attached to the ordinance
codified herein and made a part of this title by reference.
      (3)   Parking Requirements. To grant exceptions to the off street parking
requirement set forth in sections
11-12-6  and
11-12-8  of this title, when it is determined that the size and shape of the
lot to be built on is such that off street parking provisions could not be
complied with, and that the proposed use will not create undue traffic
congestion in the adjacent streets.
   (D)   Oil and Gas Applications. To hear and decide oil and gas applications
and uses under such standards as the city council may hereafter describe.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-4-5 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application Review. An application shall be filed with the board of
adjustment for review, including a fee in an amount fixed by city council
resolution, which shall be paid to the city clerk. The application shall show
the location and intended use of the site, the names of all property owners and
zoning districts within three hundred feet (300') and any other material
pertinent to the request which the board of adjustment may require.
   (B)   Notice. Notice of the public hearing before the board of adjustment
shall be given by publication and by mailed notice at least ten (10) days prior
to the hearing to all property owners within the three hundred foot (300')
radius, at applicant’s expense. The notices shall include the nature of the
application for variance or special exception.
   (C)   Board Determinations.
      (1)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the board of adjustment
may, under the provisions of this title, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from
and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be
made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken.
      (2)   In considering all appeals from rulings made under this title, the
board of adjustment shall, in making its findings on any specific case,
determine the effect of the proposed change upon the supply of light and air to
adjacent property, upon the congestion in the public streets, upon the public
safety from fire and other hazards, upon the established property values within
the surrounding area, and upon other factors relating to the public health,
safety, comfort, morals and general welfare of the people of the city.
      (3)   Every ruling made upon any appeal to the board shall be accompanied
by a written finding of fact based upon the testimony received at the hearing
afforded by the board of adjustment, and shall specify the reason for granting
or denying the appeal.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-4-6 APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT.
   (A)   Filing Notice of Appeal. An appeal from any action, decision, ruling,
judgment or order of the board of adjustment may be taken by any person or
persons, jointly or severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department,
board or bureau of the city to the district court for Lincoln County by filing
notice of appeal with the city clerk and with the board of adjustment within
ten (10) days from the filing of the decision of the board of adjustment, which
notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal.
   (B)   Providing Records to Court. Upon filing of the notice of appeal as
herein provided, the board of adjustment shall forthwith transmit to the court
clerk of the county the original or certified copy of all the papers
constituting the record in the case, together with the order, decision,
finding, or ruling of the board of adjustment.
   (C)   Stay of Proceedings. An appeal to the district court from the board of
adjustment stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from
unless the chairman of the board of adjustment, from which the appeal is taken,
certifies to the court clerk, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the district
court upon application or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the
enforcement of the terms and provisions of this title, and upon notice to the
chairman of the board of adjustment from which the appeal is taken, and upon
due cause being shown, the court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
modify the decision brought up for review.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 5: ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
Section
   
11-5-1   Districts Established
   
11-5-2   Zoning Districts Map
   
11-5-3   Interpretation of District Boundaries
§ 11-5-1 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this title, the city is hereby divided into districts, as
follows:
Agricultural Districts
AG-1 Agricultural district
AG-2 Agricultural district
Residential Districts
R-1  Single-family dwelling district
R-2  General residential district
RE   Rural estate district
Commercial Districts
C-1  Neighborhood commercial shopping district
C-2  General commercial district
HC   Highway commercial district
Industrial Districts
I-1  Limited warehousing and industrial district
I-2  General industrial district
Other
F    Floodplain district
 
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-5-2 ZONING DISTRICTS MAP.
   The zoning districts are set forth on the zoning districts map, filed with
the city clerk. The map and all explanatory material thereon are hereby made a
part of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-5-3 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or highway right-of-way
lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the centerlines or
rights-of-way of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed as being
parallel thereto and at such scaled distance therefrom as indicated on the
zoning map.
   (D)   Where the boundary of a district line follows a railroad line or
drainage easement, such boundary shall be deemed to be located on the easement
line to which it is closest, which shall completely exclude the remainder of
the easement unless otherwise designated.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 6: AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
Section
Article A. AG-1 Agricultural District
   
11-6A-1   General Description
   
11-6A-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-6A-3   Uses Permitted on Review
Article B. AG-2 Agricultural District
   
11-6B-1   General Description
   
11-6B-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-6B-3   Uses Permitted on Review
ARTICLE A. AG-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 11-6A-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This district is to establish and preserve areas for agriculture,
aquaculture, forestry, conservation, and such low intensity, outdoor recreation
uses as do not significantly change the natural character of the land or
attract large numbers of people, and prohibits all other uses not herein
implied.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-6A-2 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Uses Enumerated. Property and buildings in an AG-1 agricultural
district shall be used only for the following purposes:
      Raising and keeping of livestock.
      Raising of crops except in greenhouses, the raising of trees, hunting
preserves, wildlife refuges, and forest preserves.
      Rendering, slaughtering, and dressing only of animals raised on the
premises permitted.
      Residential use, but only as an accessory use to the principal permitted
uses herein conducted on a lot having an area of at least twenty (20) acres per
family.
      Use of roadside stands for the sale only of products produced on the same
lot.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-6A-3 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with the provisions contained in subsection
11-3-4(B) of this title:
   Cemeteries.
   Communication towers.
   Crematoriums.
   Mobile homes insofar as they comply with
 title 10, chapter 10 of this code.
   Places of worship on lots fronting on and with principal driveway access to
a street with paving at least twenty feet (20') in width.
   Wind towers.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
ARTICLE B. AG-2 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 11-6B-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This district is to establish and preserve areas for agricultural, low
density residential and outdoor recreation uses without permitting an intensity
of development which would require the provision of urban facilities and
services.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-6B-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an AG-2 agricultural district shall be used only
for the following purposes:
   Cemeteries and associated crematoriums.
   Communication towers.
   Golf courses.
   Mobile homes insofar as they comply with
title 10, chapter 10 of this code.
   Outdoor swimming pools.
   Outdoor tennis courts.
   Places of worship on lots fronting on and with principal driveway access to
a street with paving at least twenty feet (20') in width.
   Practice fields for sports.
   Raising and keeping of livestock, except the keeping of pigs, pigeons, or
roosters. Provided that the raising and keeping of livestock on lots of less
than two (2) acres, or the keeping of commercial feedlots within the city is
prohibited.
   Raising of crops except in greenhouses, the raising of trees, hunting
preserves, wildlife refuges, and forest preserves.
   Rendering, slaughtering, and dressing only of animals raised on the
premises.
   Single-family residences.
   Use of roadside stands for the sale only of products produced on the same
lot.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-6B-3 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with the provisions contained in subsection
11-3-4(B) of this title:
   Crematorium.
   Indoor swimming pools and tennis courts.
   Kennels.
   Rifle, pistol, and archery ranges.
   Schools on lots fronting on and with principal driveway access to a street
with paving at least twenty feet (20') in width.
   Skeet shooting facilities.
   Stables and riding academies, if located on a road having pavement at least
twenty feet (20') wide and if designed to avoid any danger or noise nuisance.
   Stadiums for playing facilities for organized sports, if on site parking is
provided.
   Wind towers.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 7: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Section
Article A. R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District
   
11-7A-1   General Description
   
11-7A-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-7A-3   Uses Permitted on Review
   
11-7A-4   Area Regulations
   
11-7A-5   Height Regulations
Article B. R-2 General Residential District
   
11-7B-1   General Description
   
11-7B-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-7B-3   Uses Permitted on Review
   
11-7B-4   Area Regulations
   
11-7B-5   Height Regulations
Article C. RE Rural Estate District
   
11-7C-1   General Description
   
11-7C-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-7C-3   Uses Permitted on Review
   
11-7C-4   Area Regulations; Animal Restrictions
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 11-7A-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is the most restrictive residential district. The principal use of land
is for single-family dwellings and related recreational, religious, and
educational facilities normally required to provide an orderly and attractive
residential area. These residential areas are intended to be defined and
protected from the encroachment of uses that are not appropriate to a
residential environment. Internal stability, attractiveness, order and
efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space
for dwellings and related facilities and through consideration of the proper
functional relationship of each element.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7A-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-1 single-family dwelling district shall be
used only for the following purposes:
   Accessory buildings that are not a part of a main building, including a
private garage, or accessory buildings which are a part of a main building,
including a private garage.
   Detached single-family dwelling, with or without an attached accessory
garage or comparable attached structure.
   Garden or agricultural crops, but not the raising of farm animals or
poultry.
   Home occupation.
   Library.
   Parking lots required to serve the uses permitted in this district.
   Places of worship, but not including missions or revival tents or arbors, on
lots fronting on and with principal driveway access to a street with paving at
least twenty feet (20') in width, and having on site parking.
   Public park or playground.
   Public school or private school offering general educational courses the
same as ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms regularly used
for housing and sleeping, on lots fronting on and with principal driveway
access to a street with paving at least twenty feet (20') in width.
   Temporary building of the construction industry, provided it is incidental
to the erection of buildings permitted in this district, and which shall be
removed when construction work is completed.
   Transportation and utility easements, alleys, rights-of-way, and unstaffed
substations.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7A-3 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with provisions contained in subsection
11-3-4(B) of this title:
   Assisted living centers.
   Cemetery and associated crematorium.
   Childcare center.
   Fraternal lodges.
   Garage apartment, when located on a separate lot or in the same lot with
another dwelling use.
   Golf course.
   Governmental use, public building, and public utility.
   Multiple-family dwelling.
   Nursing homes.
   Plant nursery in which no building or structure is maintained in connection
therewith.
   Rooming or boarding house.
   Towers on buildings and related facilities for the transmission and receipt
of wireless and cellular communication signals.
   Two-family dwelling.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7A-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Yards. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way lines
and lot lines to comply with the following yard requirements:
      (1)   Front Yard.
         (a)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty-five feet
(25').
         (b)   If twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of
the street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings,
all of which have observed an average setback line of greater or less than
twenty-five feet (25'), and no building varies more than five feet (5') from
this average setback line, then no building shall be erected closer to the
street line than the minimum setback so established by the existing buildings;
but this regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth than fifty
feet (50').
         (c)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be complied with on both streets.
      (2)   Side Yard.
         (a)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side
yard on each side of the main building of not less than five feet (5') from the
drip line for dwellings of one story, and of not less than eight feet (8') from
the drip line for dwellings of more than one story, except as provided in
section
11-11-2 of this title.
         (b)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet (5'); provided, however, that unattached one-
story buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than
three feet (3') from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory
building are located more than ninety feet (90') behind the front lot line.
         (c)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located an corner lots,
there shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less
than fifteen feet (15') in case such lot is back to back with another corner
lot, and twenty feet (20') in every other case. The interior side yard of a
corner lot shall be the same as for dwellings, and accessory buildings on an
interior lot.
         (d)   Places of worship, including main and accessory buildings, other
than dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings, shall set back from all
exterior and interior side lot lines a distance of not less than thirty-five
feet (35'). Lighting on parking lots shall be directed away from adjacent
residences.
      (3)   Rear Yard. There shall be a rear yard for a main building of not
less than twenty feet (20') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot,
whichever amount is smaller. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be
located in the rear yard of a main building.
   (B)   Lot Width. For dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width of fifty
feet (50') at the front building line, and such lot shall abut on a street for
a distance of not less than thirty-five feet (35').
   (C)   Intensity of Use.
      (1)   For each dwelling, and buildings accessory thereto, there shall be
a lot area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet.
      (2)   For places of worship main and accessory buildings, other than
dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate
to provide the yard areas required by this section and the off street parking
areas required in chapter 12 of this title; provided however, that the lot area
for a place of worship shall not be less than twenty-eight thousand (28,000)
square feet. Primary access shall be from a primary or collector street.
   (D)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than forty
percent (40%) of the lot area on the interior lots, and forty percent (40%) of
the lot area on corner lots. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than
twenty percent (20%) of the rear yard.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7A-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half (2-1/2) stories or thirty-five
feet (35') in height, except as provided in section
11-11-3 of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
ARTICLE B. R-2 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 11-7B-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is a residential district to provide for medium and high population
density. The principal use of land may range from single-family to multiple-
family and garage apartment uses. Certain uses that are more compatible
functionally with intensive residential uses than with commercial uses are
permitted. The recreational, religious, and educational facilities normally
required to provide an orderly and attractive residential area are permitted.
Internal stability, attractiveness, order, and efficiency are encouraged by
providing for adequate light, air, and open space for dwellings and related
facilities and through consideration of the proper functional relationship of
each use permitted in the district.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7B-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Any use permitted in an R-1 residential district.
   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the uses set forth
herein when located on the same lot.
   Assisted living center.
   Garage apartment, when located on a separate lot or in the same lot with
another dwelling use.
   Mobile home park, provided it is in compliance with all mobile home
regulations of this code.
   Multiple-family dwelling.
   Nursing home.
   Rooming or boarding house.
   Two-family dwelling.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7B-3 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission:
   Any use permitted on review in an R-1 single-family dwelling district.
   Childcare facility with no more than nine (9) children and conducted within
the main dwelling and yards.
   Home beauty or barber shop located in a dwelling, provided such shop is
conducted within the main dwelling, and is operated only by the inhabitants
thereof and does not exceed two (2) operators. The use shall be conducted in
such a way that it is clearly incidental to the dwelling use and shall not
change the character thereof. No sign shall be permitted except one
nonilluminated nameplate not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, attached to
the main building.
   Off street parking lot associated with a commercial use as required under
the provisions of chapter 12 of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7B-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Yards. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way lines
or lot lines to comply with the following yard requirements:
      (1)   Front Yard.
         (a)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty-five feet
(25').
         (b)   If twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of
the street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings all
of which have observed an average setback line of greater or less than twenty-
five feet (25'), and no building varies more than five feet (5') from this
average setback line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street
line than the minimum setback so established by the existing buildings; but
this regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth than fifty feet
(50').
         (c)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be complied with on both streets.
      (2)   Side Yard.
         (a)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side
yard on each side of the main dwelling of not less than five feet (5') from the
drip line for dwellings of one story, and of not less than eight feet (8') for
dwellings of more than one story, except as hereinafter provided in chapter 11
of this title.
         (b)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet (5'); provided however, that unattached one-
story buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than
three feet (3') from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory
building are located more than ninety feet (90') behind the front property
line.
         (c)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots,
there shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less
than fifteen feet (15') in case such lot is back to back with another corner
lot, and twenty feet (20') in every other case. The interior side yard shall be
the same as for dwellings and accessory buildings on an interior lot.
         (d)   Mobile home parks shall be planned in such a manner that no
mobile home, or related building, shall be located closer than ten feet (10')
to any side lot line.
         (e)   Places of worship, including main and accessory buildings, other
than dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings and trailers, shall set
back from all exterior and interior side lot lines a distance of not less than
thirty-five feet (35'). Lighting on parking lots shall be directed away from
adjacent residences.
      (3)   Rear Yard.
         (a)   For main building, other than garage apartments, there shall be
a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20') or twenty percent (20%) of the
depth of the lot, whichever is smaller.
         (b)   Garage apartments may be located in the rear yard of another
dwelling, but shall not be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear yard of
a main building.
   (B)   Lot Width. There shall be a minimum lot width of fifty feet (50') at
the front building line for single-family dwellings and ten feet (10')
additional width at the front building line for each family, more than one,
occupying a dwelling. However, a lot width at the front building line shall not
be required to exceed one hundred fifty feet (150'). A lot shall abut on a
street not less than thirty-five feet (35').
   (C)   Intensity of Use.
      (1)   There shall be a lot area of not less than six thousand (6,000)
square feet for a single-family dwelling, not less than eight thousand (8,000)
square feet for a two-family dwelling, and an additional area of not less than
two thousand (2,000) square feet for each family, more than two (2), occupying
a dwelling.
      (2)   Where a garage apartment is located on the same lot with a single-
family dwelling, there shall be a lot area of not less than eight thousand
(8,000) square feet. Where a garage apartment is located in the rear yard of a
two-family or multiple-family dwelling, there shall be an additional lot area
of not less than two thousand (2,000) square feet more than is normally
required.
      (3)   For places of worship, including main and accessory buildings,
other than dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall
be adequate to provide the yard areas required by this section and the off
street parking area required in chapter 12 of this title; provided however,
that the lot area shall not be less than twenty-eight thousand (28,000) square
feet. Primary access shall be from an arterial or collector street.
   (D)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than forty
percent (40%) of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than
thirty percent (30%) of the rear yard.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7B-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings shall exceed three and one-half (3-1/2) stories or forty-five
feet (45') in height, except as provided in section
11-11-3 of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
ARTICLE C. RE RURAL ESTATE DISTRICT
§ 11-7C-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The RE district is intended to provide for very low density single-family
housing on lots of one acre or more in size, with rural amenities, where
partial urban services are provided by the city, and health and safety
standards may be otherwise ensured by the individual on large lots. These areas
are intended to be defined and protected from encroachment by uses which are
incompatible with a rural residential environment. It is not intended that this
district have a lower standard of development than is authorized in other
districts; however, deviations from the standard infrastructure requirements
will be evaluated for approval on a case by case basis to assure that designs
and specifications provide for the public health, safety and welfare and are in
conformance with the city’s master plan.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7C-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an RE district shall be used only for the
following purposes:
   Detached one-family dwelling.
   General purpose farm or garden.
   Golf course.
   Governmental use, public building and public utility.
   Keeping of limited numbers of farm and household animals subject to various
restrictions.
   One guesthouse; provided, that it is clearly secondary to the larger, main
dwelling.
   Use of roadside stands for the sale only of products produced on the same
lot.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7C-3 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses will be permitted only on review by the planning
commission in accordance with provisions contained in subsection
11-3-4(B) of this title:
   Cemetery and associated crematorium.
   Childcare centers.
   Community center.
   Greenhouses.
   Home occupations.
   Mobile homes, insofar as they comply with
title 10, chapter 10 of this code.
   Places of worship, but not including missions or revival tents or arbors, on
lots fronting on and with principal driveway access to a street with paving at
least twenty feet (20') in width and on site parking.
   Schools on lots fronting on and with principal driveway access to a street
with paving at least twenty feet (20') in width.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-7C-4 AREA REGULATIONS; ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Yards.
      (1)   Front Yard.
         (a)   The minimum depth shall be fifty feet (50').
         (b)   When a lot has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be complied with on both streets.
      (2)   Side Yard.
         (a)   The minimum width of side yards shall be twenty-five feet (25').
         (b)   On any corner lot, a building shall be set back from the lot
line on the intersecting street a distance of at least forty feet (40').
      (3)   Rear Yard.
         (a)   There shall be a rear yard of no less than forty feet (40').
         (b)   Unattached accessory buildings shall be set back ten feet (10')
from the rear property line.
   (B)   Lot Width. There shall be a minimum lot width of one hundred fifty
feet (150') at the building line and shall abut a street for a distance of no
less than sixty-five feet (65') or fifty feet (50') for a cul-de-sac
turnaround.
   (C)   Height. No building shall exceed thirty-five feet (35') in height,
except as provided in section
11-11-3  of this title.
   (D)   Intensity of Use.
      (1)   All lots within this district shall have an area of no less than
one acre of land, and no more than one principal building shall be placed upon
any one lot.
      (2)   If septic systems are required and used, they must meet the
requirements of the Oklahoma state department of health and the city.
      (3)   The keeping of animals shall be limited to farm animals for
personal use or 4-H projects in a quantity not to exceed two (2) horses per
acre, two (2) cows per acre, two (2) pigs per acre, five (5) sheep or goats per
acre, ten (10) chickens or other fowl per acre, or some combination thereof,
which animals shall not be raised in a manner or quantity for commercial
purposes, except incidental retail sales. Household pets such as dogs and cats
shall be allowed as provided in animal codes/restrictions.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 8: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Section
Article A. C-1 Neighborhood Commercial Shopping District
   
11-8A-1   General Description
   
11-8A-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-8A-3   Area Regulations
   
11-8A-4   Height Regulations
   
11-8A-5   Maximum Lot Size
Article B. C-2 General Commercial District
   
11-8B-1   General Description
   
11-8B-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-8B-3   Uses Permitted on Review
   
11-8B-4   Area Regulations
   
11-8B-5   Height Regulations
Article C. HC Highway Commercial District
   
11-8C-1   General Description
   
11-8C-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-8C-3   Uses Permitted on Review
   
11-8C-4   Area Regulations
   
11-8C-5   Height Regulations
ARTICLE A. C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL SHOPPING DISTRICT
§ 11-8A-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This commercial district is for the conduct of retail trade and personal
service enterprises to meet the regular needs and for the convenience of the
people of adjacent residential areas. Because these shops and stores may be an
integral part of the neighborhood closely associated with residential,
religious, recreational, and educational uses, more restrictive requirements
for light, air, open space and off street parking are made than are provided in
other commercial districts.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8A-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-1 neighborhood commercial shopping district
shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Uses Permitted in Other Types of Districts.
      Any use permitted in an R-2 residential district.
      Any use permitted on review in an R-2 residential district.
   (B)   Retail Stores and Shops. Retail stores and shops not exceeding ten
thousand (10,000) square feet of gross floor area which supply the regular and
customary needs of the residents of the neighborhood and primarily for their
convenience, as follows:
      Antique shop.
      Appliance store.
      Arts school, gallery or museum.
      Artists’ materials, supply, or studio.
      Automobile parking lot.
      Automobile service station.
      Baby shop.
      Baked goods store.
      Bank.
      Barbershop or beauty shop.
      Book or stationery store.
      Camera or photo shop.
      Candy store.
      Catering establishment.
      Cleaning, pressing, laundry agency, provided cleaning and pressing are
not done on the premises.
      Clothing store.
      Curio or gift shop.
      Dairy products or ice cream store.
      Delicatessen.
      Drugstore.
      Dry goods store.
      Electronics sales and service.
      Florist shop, greenhouse, nursery.
      Furniture store.
      Grocery store or supermarket.
      Hardware store.
      Hotel.
      Jewelry or notions store.
      Kennel.
      Leather goods store.
      Meat market.
      Medical facility.
      Messenger or telegraph service.
      Musical instrument sales.
      Newspaper or magazine sales.
      Optometrists or ophthalmologist sales and service.
      Professional office business, including any medical, legal, accounting,
or investment, or insurance office.
      Pharmacy.
      Photographer studio.
      Restaurant.
      Self-service laundry.
      Sewing machine sales, instruction.
      Shoe repair shop.
      Sporting goods sales.
      Tailor shop.
      Toy store.
      Variety store.
   (C)   Accessory Buildings. Accessory buildings and uses customarily
incidental to the uses listed in subsections (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   Building and Storage Restrictions. A building used for any of the uses
enumerated in subsections (A) and (B) of this section may not have more than
forty percent (40%) of its floor area devoted to purposes incidental to the
primary use. No material or goods offered for sale or stored in connection with
the uses enumerated shall be displayed or stored outside of a building, with
the exception of gasoline service stations.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8A-3 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Dwellings. The area requirements for dwellings shall be the same as
the requirements of the R-2 general residential district.
   (B)   Other Uses; Yards. The following requirements concerning yards shall
apply to all other uses permitted in this district:
      (1)   Front Yard. All buildings shall set back from the street right-of-
way line to provide a front yard having not less than twenty-five feet (25') in
depth.
      (2)   Side Yard. On the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district,
there shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet (10'). There shall be a
side yard setback from an intersecting street of not less than twenty-five feet
(25').
      (3)   Rear Yard. There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear
yard, or combination thereof, of not less than thirty feet (30').
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8A-4 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half (2-1/2) stories or thirty-five
feet (35') in height, except as provided in section
11-11-3 of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8A-5 MAXIMUM LOT SIZE.
   Lots shall not exceed one acre in size.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
ARTICLE B. C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 11-8B-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The characteristics of the C-2 district are a central business district zone
for commercial, governmental, and exchange uses to the local and regional area.
The uses in this area require a central location accessible from all routes
entering the city, and they must be grouped so that the transient or infrequent
shopper can park and visit a number of stores and offices on foot.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8B-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-2 general commercial district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Uses Permitted in C-1 District. Any use permitted in a C-
1 neighborhood commercial shopping district, excluding residential uses.
   (B)   Amusements. Amusement enterprises.
   (C)   Automobiles and Machinery. New automobile sales and services, new
machinery sales and service and public garages, provided no gasoline is stored
aboveground; used automobile and machinery repairing if conducted in
conjunction with a retail agency and wholly within a completely enclosed
building, but not including automobile or machinery wrecking establishments or
junkyards.
   (D)   Other Uses.
      Ambulance service office or garage.
      Automobile retail gasoline service station.
      Bait sales.
      Bakery.
      Bathhouse.
      Broadcast or recording studio.
      Clothing or apparel store.
      Commercial medical marijuana growing facilities.
      Commercial medical marijuana processing facilities.
      Commercial school or hall.
      Department store.
      Dry cleaning or laundry plant.
      Electric transmission station.
      Electronics store.
      Feed and fuel store.
      Frozen food locker.
      Funeral parlor or mortuary.
      Furniture repair and upholstery.
      Heating, ventilating or plumbing supplies, or other construction
materials sales and services.
      Hospital for small animals, and associated crematorium.
      Interior decorating store.
      Key shop.
      Laboratories, testing and experimental.
      Leather goods shop.
      Liquor store.
      Loan office.
      Medical marijuana dispensaries.
      Museums.
      Music store.
      New and used automobile sales.
      Novelty or gift shop.
      Nursery or garden supply store.
      Office supply store.
      Outdoor advertising signs.
      Paint store.
      Pawnshop.
      Pet shop.
      Printing plant or shop.
      Recreation center.
      Research laboratories.
      Roller skating rink.
      Sign shop.
      Sporting goods store.
      Stock and bond broker.
      Storage warehouse.
      Transportation terminal.
      Theater.
      Warehouse for food.
      Wholesale distributing center.
   (E)   Accessory Buildings, Uses. Buildings, structures and uses accessory
and customarily incidental to any of the uses listed in subsections (A) through
(D) of this section; provided, that there shall be no manufacture, processing
or compounding of products other than such as are customarily incidental and
essential to retail establishments.
   (F)   Other Retail Stores. Any other store or shop for retail trade or for
rendering personal, professional or business service which does not produce
more noise, odor, dust, vibration, blast or traffic than those enumerated in
subsections (A) through (E) of this section.
   (G)   Communications Facilities. Communications towers are prohibited as a
primary use of any commercial lot, but communications facilities may be mounted
on the primary or accessory building and any accessory equipment cabinet shall
be allowed whether located on the ground or on the building.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007; Ord. 2018-07, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 11-8B-3 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with provisions contained in subsection
11-3-4(B) of this title:
   Any use permitted on review in a C-1 neighborhood commercial district.
   Boat sales and service.
   Drive-in theater or restaurant.
   Farm implements and machinery, new and used, sales.
   Golf course, miniature or driving range.
   Hotel or motel.
   Metal and wood fencing, ornamental grillwork and decorative wrought iron
work and play equipment sales.
   Mobile home and travel trailer sales.
   Monument sales.
   Nightclub.
   Prefabricated house sales.
   Roller skating rink.
   Tavern.
   Trailers for hauling, rental and sales.
   Travel trailer park.
   Truck sales (vehicles over 1-1/2 tons’ rated capacity).
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8B-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Dwellings. The area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as the
requirements of the R-2 general residential district.
   (B)   Other Uses. The following requirements shall apply to all other uses
permitted in this district:
      (1)   Yards.
         (a)   Front and Side Yards. There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses other than dwellings.
         (b)   Rear Yard. There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear
yard, or combination thereof, of not less than thirty feet (30') in width.
      (2)   Area for Off Street Parking. Buildings shall be provided with a
yard area adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in
chapter 12 of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8B-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height regulations for dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings
shall be the same as those of the R-2 general residential district. For other
uses, no height restrictions are established.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
ARTICLE C. HC HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 11-8C-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The characteristics of the HC district are a use area for retail
establishments that cater to the traveling public. Lot sizes, highway ingress
and egress, setback requirements, and the design of the individual sites are
intended to provide for motorists’ needs, yet maintain adequate, safe,
attractive facilities with minimal marginal traffic interference.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8C-2 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Uses.
      Any use permitted in a C-2 general commercial district, excluding
residential uses.
      Adult entertainment facilities, provided that no adult entertainment
facility shall be located within five hundred feet (500') of any other adult
entertainment facility, nor any school providing compulsory education. All such
entertainment shall be contained within the building and not visible from any
street, sidewalk or parking lot.
      Gasoline stations, provided there shall be no aboveground storage of
fuels.
      Liquor stores, bars and other retail shops that cater primarily to the
nonresident traveling public.
      Mobile home parks, in accordance with the provisions of this code.
      Restaurants, including drive-in restaurants.
      Retail shops and stores of all sizes.
      Temporary lodging.
   (B)   Driveways, Parking Lots. All driveways and parking lots shall be ample
for the land use; they will be designed to keep marginal highway traffic
interference to a minimum; and they will have a completely sealed surface.
   (C)   Products Enclosed or Screened. All products offered for sale will be
inside a completely enclosed building or behind a permanent ornamental wall,
fencing, or planting such that it cannot be seen by a person standing on ground
level; provided however, that no screening shall be required to be in excess of
seven feet (7') in height.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8C-3 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   Any use permitted on review in a C-2 general commercial district.
   A major truck stop which has a lot size of not less than five (5) acres and
completely sealed driveways and parking lots.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8C-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as for the R-1 residential
requirements.
   (A)   Yard Setbacks.
      (1)   Front yard minimum setback is forty feet (40'). The side yard
setback, if abutting a street, is the same as for the front yard.
      (2)   The side yard setback will be at least fifteen feet (15'). The rear
yard setback with no alley easement will be ten feet (10'). If an alley is
dedicated, a zero lot line in the rear is allowed.
   (B)   Off Street Parking. Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements in this title.
   (C)   Distance Between Buildings. The minimum distance between buildings on
the same lot is fifteen feet (15').
   (D)   Lot Frontage. A minimum one hundred foot (100') frontage is required
on all lots.
   (E)   Lot Size. Minimum lot size is ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   (F)   Curb Cuts, Gasoline Stations. Longer curb cuts, up to fifty feet
(50'), are allowed for gasoline stations after approval by the planning
commission.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-8C-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half (2-1/2) stories in height or
twenty-five feet (25'), except as provided in this title, unless it is set back
from all lot lines an additional one foot (1') for each two feet (2') that the
building exceeds twenty-five feet (25').
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 9: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Section
Article A. I-1 Limited Warehousing and Industrial District
   
11-9A-1   General Description
   
11-9A-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-9A-3   Area Regulations
   
11-9A-4   Height Regulations
Article B. I-2 General Industrial District
   
11-9B-1   General Description
   
11-9B-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-9B-3   Uses Permitted on Review
   
11-9B-4   Area Regulations
   
11-9B-5   Height Regulations
ARTICLE A. I-1 LIMITED WAREHOUSING AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 11-9A-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This industrial district is intended primarily for manufacturing and
assembly plants and warehousing that are conducted so the noise, odor, dust,
and glare of each operation is completely confined within an enclosed building.
These industries may require direct access to major rail, air, or street
transportation facilities; however, the size and volume of the raw materials
and finished products involved should not produce the volume of freight
generated by the uses of the heavy industrial district. These uses do not
depend primarily on frequent personal visits of customers, but may have
incidental on site retail sales of the manufactured product as an accessory
use.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-9A-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an I-1 district shall be used only for the
following purposes:
   (A)   Uses Permitted in HC District. Any use permitted in an HC highway
commercial district; provided that no dwelling uses except sleeping facilities
for caretakers and night watchmen employed on the premises shall be permitted.
   (B)   Other Permitted Uses.
      (1)   Any of the following uses:
         Bakery.
         Bookbindery.
         Brewing.
         Candy manufacturing.
         Communications towers.
         Electrical equipment assembly.
         Electronic equipment assembly and manufacture.
         Engraving printing plant.
         Food or beverage processing and packing.
         Furniture manufacturing.
         Instrument and meter manufacturing.
         Jewelry and watch manufacturing.
         Laboratories, experimental.
         Laundry and cleaning establishment.
         Leather goods fabrication.
         Lumber milling and manufacturing of wood products.
         Medication manufacturing processing or packaging.
         Optical goods manufacturing.
         Paper products manufacturing.
         Recycled materials collection.
         Shoe manufacturing.
         Sporting goods manufacturing.
         Tool manufacturing.
         Wholesale or warehousing enterprise.
      (2)   All of the uses permitted under this subsection (B) shall have
their primary operations conducted entirely within enclosed buildings, and
shall not emit any dust or smoke, or noxious odor or fumes outside of the
building housing the operation, or produce a noise level at the property line
that is greater than the average noise level occurring on the adjacent street.
Any article or material stored temporarily outside of an enclosed building, as
an incidental part of the primary operation, shall be so screened by ornamental
walls and fences or evergreen planting that it cannot be seen from adjoining
public streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing at ground
level.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-9A-3 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All buildings shall be set back from the street right-of-way lines and lot
lines to comply with the following yard requirements:
   (A)   Rear Yard. No building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to
the rear lot line, except that where a building is to be serviced from the
rear, there shall be provided an alley, service court, rear yard or combination
thereof of not less than thirty feet (30') in width or of adequate area and
width to provide for maneuver of service vehicles, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings and off street parking and
loading facilities shall not cover more than eighty percent (80%) of the lot
area.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-9A-4 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure shall exceed three and one-half (3-1/2) stories or
forty-five feet (45') in height, except as provided in section
11-11-3 of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
ARTICLE B. I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 11-9B-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This industrial district is intended primarily for the conduct of
manufacturing, assembling and fabrication. These uses do not depend primarily
on frequent personal visits of customers or clients, but usually require good
accessibility to major rail, air, or street transportation facilities.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-9B-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an I-2 general industrial district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Uses Permitted in I-1 District. Any use permitted in the I-
1 industrial district.
   (B)   Other Uses. Any of the following uses:
      Building material sales yard and lumberyard, including the sale of rock,
sand, gravel and the like as an incidental part of the main business, but not
including a concrete batch plant or transit mix plant.
      Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of equipment
commonly used by contractors.
      Freighting or trucking yard or terminal.
      Oil field equipment storage yard.
      Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or transforming
station.
      Sale barn.
   (C)   Uses Conducted in Enclosed Building. The following uses when conducted
within a completely enclosed building:
      Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and devices,
radios and phonographs, including the manufacture of small parts only, such as
coils, condensers, transformers, crystal holders, and the like.
      Foundry casting lightweight nonferrous metal not causing noxious fumes or
odors.
      Heavy equipment manufacture.
      Machine shop.
      Manufacture and maintenance of electric and neon signs, commercial
advertising structure, light sheet metal products, including heating and
ventilating ducts and equipment, cornices, eaves, and the like.
      Manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles or
merchandise from the following previously prepared original materials: animal
products, cellophane, glass, plant products, plastics, precious or semiprecious
metals or stone, textiles, and paint.
      Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment of such
products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products, drugs, perfumes,
pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries, and food products.
      Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties, and rubber and metal
stamps.
      Manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic products,
using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by electricity or
gas.
      Vehicle assembling, painting, upholstering, body and fender work, truck
repairing and overhauling, tire retreading or recapping, and battery
manufacturing.
   (D)   Accessory Buildings and Uses. Buildings, structures, and uses
accessory and customarily incidental to any of the above uses.
   The uses permitted under this section shall be conducted in such a manner
that no noxious odor, fumes, or dust will be emitted beyond the property line
of the lot on which the use is located.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-9B-3 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with the provisions contained in subsection
11-3-4(B) of this title:
   Any use not otherwise permitted by these regulations.
   Cement, lime or gypsum manufacture.
   Disposal plants of all types including trash and garbage, sewage treatment
(including lagoons) and compost plants.
   Natural gas production and distribution.
   Petroleum production and refining.
   Recycled materials processing (postconsumer).
   Salvage yards for automobiles, building materials, scrap metal, junk or for
any other kind of salvage; provided, however, that all salvage operations shall
be so screened by ornamental walls, fences or evergreen planting that it cannot
be seen by a person standing at ground level at any place immediately adjacent
to the lot on which the salvage operation is located.
   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline, propane or butane, or other petroleum
products.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-9B-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Yards.
      (1)   There are no specific front or side yard requirements in this
district.
      (2)   Where a building is to be serviced from the rear, those shall be
provided an alley, service court, rear yard or combination thereof of not less
than thirty feet (30') in width or of adequate area and width to provide for
maneuver of service vehicles, whichever is the greater. In all other cases, no
rear yard is required.
   (B)   Off Street Parking. Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in
chapter 12  of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-9B-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed three and one-half (3-1/2) stories or forty-five
feet (45') in height, except as provided in section
11-11-3 of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 10: F FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
Section
   
11-10-1   General Description
   
11-10-2   Uses Permitted
   
11-10-3   Application as Combining (Overlay) Regulations
   
11-10-4   Fences
§ 11-10-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This district is intended to comprise those areas that are subject to
periodic or occasional flooding and therefore are unsuited for all residential
uses and for most commercial and industrial uses. It is intended that the area
be retained for flood tolerant agricultural and recreation uses only, until
danger from flooding is eliminated.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-10-2 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in the F floodplain district shall be used only for
the following purposes:
   Public recreation.
   The growing of agricultural crops and nursery stock and gardening.
   The raising of poultry and livestock, in accordance with the municipal
ordinances relating thereto, but not the operation of commercial feed pens for
cattle or hogs.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-10-3 APPLICATION AS COMBINING (OVERLAY) REGULATIONS.
   The boundaries of the flood hazard district, which is composed of floodway
and flood fringe areas, may cut across and overlay the boundaries of other
zoning districts. The regulations applicable to the flood hazard district shall
be interpreted as being in addition to the requirements of other district
regulations, and wherever a conflict in requirements results, the regulations
of the flood hazard district shall supersede all other regulations. Where the
flood hazard district overlays residential, commercial, or industrial zoning,
the flood hazard area shall be restricted to use as open space yards and
drives, free of buildings or any structures capable of interfering or
restricting the storage of flow of floodwater within the area.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-10-4 FENCES.
   Fences in the floodplain district overlay shall be limited to split rail or
comparable open fencing which will allow floodwaters to pass unimpeded and
without the retention of significant debris.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 11: GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
Section
   
11-11-1   Application of Provisions
   
11-11-2   Open Space
   
11-11-3   Height
   
11-11-4   Group Housing Projects
   
11-11-5   Storage and Parking of Trailers, Commercial Vehicles
   
11-11-6   Animals
   
11-11-7   Storage of Liquefied Petroleum Gases
   
11-11-8   Trailer Park Regulations
   
11-11-9   Area Regulations for Nonstructure Manmade Construction
§ 11-11-1 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Most Restrictive Provisions Prevail. Whenever the specific district
regulations pertaining to one district permits the uses of a more restricted
district, such uses shall be subject to the conditions as set forth in the
regulations of the more restricted district, unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Dwellings Prohibited for Nonresidential Uses. It is intended that
these regulations be interpreted as not permitting a dwelling unit to be
located on the same lot with or within a structure used or intended to be used
for nonresidential purposes.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-11-2 OPEN SPACE.
   The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions or qualify and
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations set forth in
chapters 6 through
10 of this title:
   (A)   Determining Open Space. No open space or lot area required for a
building or structure shall, during its life, be occupied by, or counted as
open space for, any other building or structure.
   (B)   Projections Into Yards; Fences.
      (1)   Open eaves, cornices, windowsills, and belt courses may project
into any required yard a distance not to exceed two feet (2').
      (2)   Fences, walls and hedges in residential districts may be erected in
any required yard, or along the edge of any yard; provided, that no opaque
fence, wall or hedge located in front of the front building line shall exceed
three feet (3') in height, except that an open type fence such as hog wire or
chainlink shall be allowed to a height not to exceed four feet (4') and no
other wall or fence shall exceed seven feet (7') in height.
   (C)   Front Yard Depth. Where the dedicated street right-of-way is less than
fifty feet (50'), the depth of the front yard shall be measured starting at a
point twenty-five feet (25') from the centerline of the street easement.
   (D)   Dwellings Abutting Streets; Garage Apartments.
      (1)   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot that does not abut on at
least one street for at least thirty-five feet (35').
      (2)   A street shall form the direct and primary means of ingress and
egress for all dwelling units.
      (3)   Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a secondary means of
ingress and egress.
      (4)   A garage apartment may be built to the rear of a main dwelling if
all other provisions of this title are complied with.
   (E)   Commercial and Industrial Uses; Parking. No minimum lot sizes and open
spaces are prescribed for commercial and industrial uses. It is the intent of
this title that lots of sufficient size be used by any business or industry to
provide adequate on site parking and loading and unloading space required for
operation of the enterprise in all but C-2 zoning districts.
   (F)   Corner Lots; Sight Triangle. On any corner lot on which a front and
side yard is required, no wall, fence, sign, structure or any plant growth
which obstructs sightlines at elevations between two feet six inches (2'6") and
six feet (6') above any portion of the crown of the adjacent roadway shall be
maintained in a triangle formed by measuring from the point of intersection of
the front and exterior side lot lines a distance of twenty-five feet (25')
along the front and side lot lines and connecting the points so established to
form a sight triangle on the area of the lot adjacent to the street
intersection.
   (G)   Garage Location. An attached or detached private garage which faces on
a street shall not be located closer than twenty-five feet (25') to the street
easement line.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-11-3 HEIGHT.
   The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions or qualify and
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations set forth in
chapters 6 through 10 of this title.
   (A)   Determining Stories. In measuring heights, a habitable basement or
attic shall be counted as a story, and a story in a sloping roof, the area of
which story at a height of four feet (4') above the floor does not exceed two-
thirds (2/3) of the floor area of the story immediately below it and which does
not contain an independent apartment, shall be counted as a half story.
   (B)   Exceptions to Height Limits; Conditions.
      (1)   Chimneys, elevators, poles, spires, tanks, towers, and other
projections not used for human occupancy may extend above the height limit.
      (2)   Places of worship, schools, hospitals, sanatoriums, and other
public and semipublic buildings may exceed the height limitation of the
district if the minimum depth of rear yards and the minimum width of the side
yards required in the district are increased one foot (1') for each two feet
(2') by which the height of such public or semipublic structure exceeds the
prescribed height limit.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-11-4 GROUP HOUSING PROJECTS.
   In case of a housing project consisting of a group of two (2) or more
buildings to be constructed on a plot of ground of at least two (2) acres not
subdivided into the customary streets and lots, and which will not be so
subdivided, or where the existing or contemplated street and lot layout make it
impracticable to apply the requirements of this title to the individual
buildings in such housing project, the application of such requirements to such
housing project may be changed by the board of adjustment, in a manner that
will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood, will ensure a
density of land use no higher and a standard of open space at least as high as
required by this title in the district in which the proposed project is to be
located. In no case shall a use or building height or density of population be
permitted which is less than the requirement of the district in which the
housing project is to be located.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-11-5 STORAGE AND PARKING OF TRAILERS, COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, camping,
and hauling, shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or
on any lot in any residential district except in accordance with the following
provisions:
   (A)   Commercial Vehicles. Not more than one commercial vehicle, which does
not exceed two (2) tons’ rated capacity per family living on the premises,
shall be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling
explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
   (B)   Camping and Travel Trailers.
      (1)   Not more than one camping or travel trailer or hauling trailer per
family living on the premises shall be permitted, and said trailer shall not
exceed twenty-four feet (24') in length, or eight feet (8') in width; and
further provided, that said trailer shall not be parked or stored for more than
forty-eight (48) hours unless it is located behind the front yard building
line.
      (2)   A camping or travel trailer shall not be occupied either
temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any area within the
incorporated limits except in a travel trailer court authorized under the
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-11-6 ANIMALS.
   Animals in any district shall be kept only in accordance with the ordinances
of the city.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-11-7 STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES.
   The use of land or buildings for the commercial wholesale or retail storage
of liquefied petroleum gases shall be in accordance with the ordinances of the
city, and the regulations of the liquefied petroleum gas administration of the
state of Oklahoma.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-11-8 TRAILER PARK REGULATIONS.
   Travel trailer parks and mobile home parks shall be constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-11-9 AREA REGULATIONS FOR NONSTRUCTURE MANMADE CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Tennis Courts, Swimming Pools. Tennis courts, swimming pools,
uncovered patios, storm cellars and other such manmade items shall comply with
the setback regulations of the district they are built in, but not to the
intensity of use regulations of that district.
   (B)   Disposal Systems.
      (1)   No portion of any disposal system unit shall be located closer than
ten feet (10') to the lot line of the lot on which the system is located.
      (2)   Septic systems must meet all state health department regulations
including a percolation test made before a building permit is issued.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 12: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Section
   
11-12-1   General Intent and Application
   
11-12-2   Required Open Space
   
11-12-3   Location
   
11-12-4   Joint Parking Facilities
   
11-12-5   Size of Off Street Parking Space
   
11-12-6   Off Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
11-12-7   Paved Surface Required
   
11-12-8   Off Street Parking Lots in Residential Districts
§ 11-12-1 GENERAL INTENT AND APPLICATION.
   It is the intent of these requirements that adequate parking and loading
facilities be provided off the street easement for each use of land within the
city. Requirements are intended to be based on the demand created by each use.
These requirements shall apply to all uses in all districts.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-12-2 REQUIRED OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Generally. Off street parking or loading space shall be a part of the
required open space associated with the permitted use and shall not be reduced
or encroached upon in any manner.
   (B)   Yard and Parking Areas. The area required for off street parking shall
be in addition to the yard areas herein required; except that the front yard
required in a C-1 neighborhood shopping district may be used for uncovered
parking area; and further provided, that the front yard required in a
residential district may be used for the uncovered parking area for four (4) or
less vehicles associated with a residential use when the area is surfaced with
a pavement adequate to prevent the occurrence of mud and dust with continued
use, and may be used for uncovered parking area for more than four (4) vehicles
in accordance with the provisions of section
11-12-8  of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-12-3 LOCATION.
   The off street parking lot shall be located within two hundred feet (200'),
exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use and shall have
direct access to a street or alley.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-12-4 JOINT PARKING FACILITIES.
   Whenever two (2) or more uses are located together in a common building,
shopping center or other integrated building complex, the parking requirements
may be complied with by providing a permanent common parking facility,
cooperatively established and operated, which contains the requisite number of
spaces for each use. The total number of spaces provided shall not be less than
the sum of the individual requirements.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-12-5 SIZE OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACE.
   The size of a parking space for one vehicle shall consist of a rectangular
area having dimensions of not less than nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20')
plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-12-6 OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Schedule. Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided
in all districts in accordance with the following schedule:
Type of Use Parking Space Required
Type of Use    Parking Space Required
Boarding or
rooming house  1 parking space for every 2 guests
or hotel
Commercial
establishments 1 parking space for every 150 square feet of floor space in the building used for
not otherwise  retail trade and including all areas used by the public
classified
Community
center,
theater,       1 parking space for every 4 seats, based on maximum seating capacity
auditorium,
church
sanctuary
Convention
hall, lodge,
club, library, 1 parking space for every 50 square feet of floor area used for assembly or
museum, place  recreation
of amusement
or recreation
Dwelling       2 parking spaces for each separate dwelling unit within the structure, excluding
               garages
               1 space for every 4 patient beds, exclusive of bassinets, plus 1 space for each
Hospitals      staff or visiting doctor, plus 1 space for every 3 employees including nurses,
               plus adequate area for the parking of emergency vehicles
Industrial     Adequate area to park all employees’ and customers’ vehicles at all times and
establishments adequate space for loading, unloading and storing all vehicles used incidental to
               or as a part of the primary operation of the establishment
Medical or
dental clinics 5 spaces per doctor, plus 1 space for every 2 employees
or offices
Office         1 parking space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area in the building,
building       exclusive of the area used for storage, utilities and building service
Places of      1 space for every 40 square feet of floor area in the sanctuary or chapel
worship
Sanatoriums,
convalescent   1 space for every 6 patient beds, plus 1 space for each staff or visiting doctor,
or nursing     plus 1 space for every 2 employees, including nurses
homes
Theaters       1 space for every 40 square feet of floor area for the audience
 
   (B)   Other Uses; Determination. For all uses not covered in subsection (A)
of this section, the planning commission shall make a determination of the
parking demand to be created by the proposed use, and the amount of parking
thus determined shall be the off street parking requirement for the permitted
use, except that no off street parking shall be required for existing uses and
buildings located in the area bordered by Allison Street on the east, Steele
Street on the west, Sixth Street on the north, and Fifteenth Street on the
south. As a guide, places of worship in all districts, and all other places of
public assembly (such as theaters) in all districts except C-2, and all
commercial uses in districts except C-2, shall create and thereafter maintain
adequate on site parking to accommodate the anticipated crowd that will be
attracted to the facility on the busiest day of the week, during an average
week of programs or assemblies. Provided it is not a violation of this section
if an overflow crowd assembles fewer than six (6) calendar weeks per year, even
if the overflow is predictable, due to annual or special events.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-12-7 PAVED SURFACE REQUIRED.
   All parking spaces in off street parking lots providing space for more than
four (4) vehicles shall be paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained
in a manner that no dust will result from continued use.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-12-8 OFF STREET PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Whenever off street parking lots for more than four (4) vehicles are to be
located within or adjacent to a residential district, the following provisions
shall apply:
   (A)   Ornamental Fence. All sides of the lot abutting the residential
district shall be enclosed with an opaque ornamental fence, wall or dense
evergreen hedge having a height of not less than five feet (5') nor more than
six feet (6'). Such fence, wall or hedge shall be maintained in good condition.
   (B)   Front Yard Setback. No parking shall be permitted within a front yard
setback line established fifteen feet (15') back of the property line of
interior and corner lots wherever the parking lot is located in a residential
district or immediately abuts the front yard of a residential unit. In all
other cases no setback shall be required.
   (C)   Landscaping. All yards shall be landscaped with grass and shrubs and
maintained in good condition the year round.
   (D)   Driveway Width. Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be
confined to and shall not exceed twenty-five feet (25') in width, exclusive of
curb returns.
   (E)   Paving. All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be
paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no
dust will be produced by continued use.
   (F)   Lighting. The intensity of light and arrangement of reflectors shall
be such as not to interfere with residential district uses.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 13: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
Section
   
11-13-1   Buildings and Structures
   
11-13-2   Uses of Land
   
11-13-3   Discontinuance
§ 11-13-1 BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Continuation. A nonconforming building or structure existing at the
time of adoption of this title may be continued, maintained and repaired,
except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Alteration or Enlargement. A nonconforming building or structure shall
not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless said building or structure,
including additions and enlargements, is made to conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is located; provided, however, that if
a building or structure is conforming as to use, but nonconforming as to yards
or height or off street parking space, said building or structure may be
enlarged or added to; provided, that the enlargement or addition complies with
the yard and height and off street parking requirements of the district in
which said building or structure is located. No nonconforming building or
structure shall be moved in whole or in part to another location on the lot
unless every portion of said building or structure is made to conform to all of
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Outdoor Advertising Signs and Structures. Any advertising sign,
billboard, commercial advertising structure, or statuary, which is lawfully
existing and maintained at the time this title became effective, which does not
conform with the provisions hereof shall not be structurally altered. Provided
that on application of the owner, any such nonconforming advertising signs,
billboards, commercial advertising structures and statuary, and their
supporting members may be altered under separate permit of the city council
upon the express provision that the sign shall be completely removed from the
premises not later than three (3) years from the alteration, or during such
other time limit as the council may authorize at the time of the issuance of
the permit.
   (D)   Building Vacancy. A building or structure, or portion thereof, which
is nonconforming as to use, which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains
unoccupied for a continuous period of one year shall not thereafter be
occupied, except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   (E)   Change in Use.
      (1)   A nonconforming use of a conforming building or structure shall not
be expanded or extended into any other portion of such conforming building or
structure nor changed except to a conforming use. If such a nonconforming use,
or a portion thereof, is discontinued or changed to a conforming use, any
future use of such building, structure or portion thereof shall be in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which such building or
structure is located. A vacant or partially vacant nonconforming building or
structure may be occupied by a use for which the building or structure was
designed or intended if occupied within a period of one year after the
effective date of this title.
      (2)   The use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed to
a use of the same or a more restricted district classification; but where the
use of a nonconforming building or structure is changed to a use of a more
restricted district classification, it thereafter shall not be changed to a use
of a less restricted district classification; provided, however, that a
building or structure that is nonconforming as to use at the time of adoption
of this title, or at any time thereafter, shall not be changed to a wholesale
or retail liquor store unless such change in use conforms to the provisions of
the district in which it is located.
   (F)   Change in Ownership. If a structure in which a nonconforming use is
taking place or if a nonconforming structure or building is sold, the building
and/or use shall thereafter be in conformity with the provisions of the
district in which said structure or use is located.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-13-2 USES OF LAND.
   A nonconforming use of land, where the aggregate value of all permanent
buildings or structures is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), existing
at the time of adoption of this title, may be continued for a period of not
more than three (3) years therefrom, provided that said nonconforming use may
not be extended or expanded, nor shall it occupy more area than was in use on
the effective date of this title.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-13-3 DISCONTINUANCE.
   If said nonconforming use or any portion thereof is discontinued for a
period of six (6) months, or if the use is changed, any future use of such
land, or change in use, shall be in conformity with the provisions of the
district in which said land is located. If said nonconforming structure is
damaged by more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost, or if the
structure is vacant for a period of six (6) months, any rebuilding, remodeling
or reconstruction shall be in conformity with the provisions of the district in
which said structure is located.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 14: AMENDMENTS
Section
   
11-14-1   Zoning Amendments
   
11-14-2   Requests for Amendments; Hearing
§ 11-14-1 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   The city council may, from time to time, on its own motion, or on petition
from a property owner, or on recommendation of the planning commission, amend,
supplement, change, modify, or repeal regulations, restrictions, and boundaries
of zoning districts. However, no such regulation, restriction, or boundary
change shall become effective until acted upon by both the planning commission
and the city council. The planning commission shall make a preliminary report,
hold public hearings on such matters at which parties in interest and citizens
shall have an opportunity to be heard, and thereafter submit its final report
to the city council. The city council shall not take action on such matters
until it has received the final report of the planning commission.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-14-2 REQUESTS FOR AMENDMENTS; HEARING.
   Requests for amendments, modifications, changes, or supplements to the
zoning ordinance will be reviewed and authorized or rejected under the
following procedure:
   (A)   Application; Review. An application shall be filed with the planning
commission for review. Such application shall show the location and intended
use of the site, the present zoning classification, and the proposed
reclassification; the names of all the property owners and existing land uses
within three hundred feet (300'); and any other material pertinent to the
request which the planning commission may require.
   (B)   Commission Hearing; Notice. The planning commission shall hold one or
more public hearings thereon. At least fifteen (15) days’ notice of the time
and place of the first and subsequent hearings shall be published in an
official paper or paper of general circulation in Chandler. Published notice
shall include a map of the area affected, showing street names, waterways or
other significant landmarks in the area. In addition to such notice by
publication, notice of public hearings on any zoning change shall be given by
posting notice of such hearing on the affected property at least seven (7) days
before the date of the hearing. Such posted notice shall be by a sign placed on
the property affected by such proposed zoning reclassification, and the
lettering thereon shall be of sufficient size so as to be clearly visible and
legible from the public street or streets toward which it faces. It shall
contain information giving the date, time, and place of the public hearing and
by whom it shall be conducted; the desired zoning classification or amendment;
the proposed use of the property; and other such information as deemed
necessary to provide adequate and timely notice. The city clerk shall give
notice, as provided herein, and shall also mail written notice to all the
owners of real property within the affected area of any proposed zoning change
that is initiated by the city, and shall include a description of any proposed
use.
   (C)   Planning Commission Report; Council Hearing.
      (1)   After the hearing, the planning commission shall make a report to
the city council, which recommends rejection or acceptance of the amendment.
However, no such regulation, restriction, or boundary change shall become
effective until after a public hearing in relation thereto has been held by the
city council, at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard.
      (2)   At least fifteen (15) days’ notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in an official paper or a paper of general
circulation in the city. In addition to such notice by publication, notice of
public hearing on any zoning change shall be given by posting notice of such
hearing on the affected property at least ten (10) days before the date of the
hearing. Such posted notice shall be by sign placed on the property affected by
such proposed zoning reclassification, and the lettering thereon shall be of
sufficient size so as to be clearly visible and legible from the public street
or streets toward which it faces. It shall contain information giving the date,
time and place of the public hearing and by whom it shall be conducted, the
desired zoning classification, the proposed use of the property and such other
information as deemed necessary to provide adequate and timely notice. Notice
as provided for herein shall be given by the city clerk.
   (D)   Protest Against Amendment. If a written protest against such amendment
be presented at least three (3) days prior to the public hearing, and if such
protest is duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%)
or more of the area of the land proposed to be altered, or by the owners of
fifty percent (50%) or more of the area of the lots within three hundred feet
(300') of the territory included in such proposed change, such amendment shall
not be passed except by the favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the
members of the city council.
   (E)   Petition; Fee.
      (1)   Whenever the owners of fifty-one percent (51%) of the land in any
area shall present a petition duly signed and acknowledged to the city council
requesting an amendment of the regulations prescribed for such area, it shall
be the duty of the city council to vote upon such amendment within ninety (90)
days of the filing of same by the petitioners with the city clerk.
      (2)   For each petition for amendment to this title, a fee in an amount
as fixed by city council resolution, plus the cost of legal publication, shall
be paid to the city.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 15: ANNEXATION; ZONING CLASSIFICATION
Section
   
11-15-1   Classification; Consideration; Hearing
   
11-15-2   Annexation Procedure
§ 11-15-1 CLASSIFICATION; CONSIDERATION; HEARING.
   (A)   AG-1 District. All new additions and annexations of land to the city
shall be an AG-1 agricultural district, unless otherwise classified by the city
council, for a period of time not to exceed one year from the effective date of
the ordinance annexing said addition.
   (B)   Planning Commission Recommendation; Council Hearing. Within this one
year period of time, the planning commission shall study and make
recommendations concerning the use of land within said annexation required to
promote the general welfare and in accordance with the comprehensive plan, and
upon receipt of such recommendations, the city council shall, after public
hearings as required by law, establish the district classification of said
annexation; provided however, that this shall not be construed as preventing
the city council from holding public hearings prior to annexation and
establishing the district classification at the time of said annexation.
   (C)   Annexation. Provided that land proposed for annexation and containing
an existing, lawful use at the time of annexation may be assigned to a zoning
district under the city’s zoning ordinance that would continue to allow the use
to remain lawful and with the least density for zoning of that general type of
district.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-15-2 ANNEXATION PROCEDURE.
   For the convenience of the planning commission, annexation procedures shall
be as follows:
   (A)   Authority; Consent of Owners; Certain Tracts Not Subject to City
Taxes.
      (1)   The city council, in its discretion, may add to the city such other
territory adjacent to the city limits as it may deem proper, and shall have
power to increase or diminish the city limits in such manner as in its judgment
and discretion may redound to the benefit of the city.
      (2)   Provided, that in no case shall any additional territory, except
when subdivided into tracts or parcels of less than five (5) acres with more
than one residence thereon, be added to the city limits without the consent in
writing of the owners of a majority of the whole number of acres owned by
residents of the territory to be added, except that when three (3) sides of
such additional territory are adjacent to, or abutting on, property already
within the city limits, such territory may be added to the city limits without
the consent hereinbefore mentioned.
      (3)   Provided, further, that where the territory sought to be added is
separated from the city limits by an intervening strip less than four (4) rods
in width, the land so detached by such strip shall be considered as adjacent or
abutting within the meaning of this section; and provided, further, that tracts
of land in excess of forty (40) acres shall not be subject to city taxes.
   (B)   Petition to Annex. On petition in writing signed by not less than
three-fourths (3/4) of the legal voters and by the owners of not less than
three-fourths (3/4) (in value) of the property in any territory contiguous to
any city or town and not embraced within the limits thereof, the city council
shall by ordinance annex such territory to the city upon filing a copy of such
ordinance with an accurate map of the territory annexed, duly executed by the
mayor of the city, in the office of the register of deeds of the county where
the annexed territory, or the greater portion of it is situated, and having the
same recorded therein.
   (C)   Petition to Exclude or Disconnect. On petition in writing signed by
not less than three-fourths (3/4) of the legal voters and by the owners of not
less than three-fourths (3/4) (in value) of the property in any territory
within the incorporated city, and being upon the border and within the limits
thereof, the city council may disconnect and exclude such territory from the
city. Provided, that the provisions of this subsection shall only apply to
lands not laid out into city lots or blocks and containing no city owned
facilities.
   (D)   Publication of Notice. No final action shall be taken by the city
council upon any petition presented in pursuance of the provisions of
subsections (B) and (C) of this section until notice of the presentation of
such petition has been given by the petitioners by publication at least once a
week for two (2) successive weeks in some newspaper published in the city where
the petition has been presented; or if no newspaper be published in the city,
then in a newspaper of general circulation.
   (E)   Petition to District Court; Presentation; Notice and Hearing. Upon the
failure of the city council to grant the request contained in a petition
presented in accordance with the provisions of subsections (B) and (C) of this
section, and for thirty (30) days after the last publication of the notice
provided for in subsection (D) of this section, or upon a refusal to grant such
request, the petitioners may present their petition to the district court of
the county in which the city, or the greater portion of it, is situated, by
filing such petition with the clerk of said court. Notice of such filing shall
be served by the petitioners upon the mayor, together with a notice of the time
and place when and where a hearing shall be had upon such petition, at least
ten (10) days before the date of such hearing.
   (F)   Action of Court on Petition. If upon the hearing the court shall find
that the request of the petitioners ought to be granted and can be so granted
without injustice to the inhabitants or persons interested, the court shall so
order. If the court shall find against the petitioners, the petition shall be
dismissed at the cost of the petitioners.
   (G)   Record Regarding Territory Affected. When any territory is annexed by
ordinance or by a decree or order of court to the city, it shall be the duty of
the mayor to cause an accurate map of such added territory, together with a
copy of the ordinance for the annexation or a copy of the decree or order of
court therefor, duly certified, to be filed and recorded in the office of the
register of deeds of the county in which such added territory, or the greater
portion of it, is situated. If territory is disconnected or excluded from the
city, a copy of the ordinance or decree therefor shall be so filed and recorded
at the expense of the petitioners therefor.
   (H)   Annexation of Territory Separated from City by Railway. Any territory
adjoining the city, and separated from the city only by a railway right-of-way,
may be annexed to the city in the manner provided by law for the annexing of
territory adjoining and adjacent to the city.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 16: SIGNAGE
Section
   
11-16-1   General Purpose and Application
   
11-16-2   Exempt from Sign Permit
   
11-16-3   Prohibited Signs
   
11-16-4   Sign Construction Permit Required
   
11-16-5   Signs Accessory to Primary Use of Land
§ 11-16-1 GENERAL PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. Standards are herein provided for the purpose of extending
regulations of the use of land to the erection, construction, placement,
replacement, display, location and maintenance of signs and outdoor advertising
media; for the purpose of protection of places and areas of historical and
cultural importance; to increase safety and lessen congestion in the streets;
to conserve the value of buildings; to preserve residential values; to provide
for improved community appearance; to preserve public land for the benefit of
the general public by prohibiting its appropriation for a private use; and to
encourage the most appropriate use of land.
   (B)   Application. This chapter shall apply prospectively to future permit
applications for sign construction and to existing sign structures encroaching
the public right-of-way; provided, however, that any freestanding sign erected
and completed prior to April 2, 2007, and which overhangs the public right-of-
way shall be permitted to remain if:
      (1)   The city had therefor issued a permit for the erection of the sign;
and
      (2)   The base of the sign structure is located wholly upon private
property; and
      (3)   The display surface area of the sign is a minimum of nine feet (9')
above the grade level of the ground surface beneath it, or a minimum of
fourteen feet (14') above any driveway, service drive or other trafficway, and
does not extend nearer than two feet (2') to the curb line of the adjacent
street.
   (C)   Conformity and Immediate Removal of Nonconforming Signs.
      (1)   Where a sign is more than fifty percent (50%) destroyed by
accident, act of nature, or construction failure, said sign shall not be
replaced or reconstructed unless it is brought into conformance with these
regulations.
      (2)   Any sign erected without a permit shall be subject to immediate
removal.
      (3)   All legally erected flashing or moving signs not permitted by this
title shall be modified to be brought into conformance with this title within a
period of six (6) months of the effective date of adoption hereof by
discontinuance of the flashing or moving function or express approval thereof
by the city council.
   (D)   Removal by Impoundment.
      (1)   Sign Impoundment Without Notice Authorized. Any sign situated in
the right-of-way of a public street or in a required sight triangle, or an
unanchored sign or one which has been damaged by storm or collision in such a
manner that its presence constitutes a threat to the health, safety, and
welfare of the public, is hereby declared a public nuisance endangering public
safety, and upon discovery, it may be impounded by the official responsible for
enforcement of this title, or any police officer or such other employees of the
city as may be designated. Those responsible for the placement of signs and/or
the causing of signs to be placed, located, built, constructed, or who benefit
directly or indirectly from the placement, location, building or construction
of said signs in violation of the code are subject to penalties set forth for
in this code for violations of any ordinance of the city.
      (2)   Disposal. All signs that are impounded shall be disposed of by the
city.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-16-2 EXEMPT FROM SIGN PERMIT.
   The following are exempt from the provisions requiring a permit under this
chapter:
   (A)   Flags or emblems of a government or of a political, civic,
philanthropic, educational or religious organization, displayed on private
property; provided, however, any emblem shall be used only as an identifying
symbol;
   (B)   Signs located on or above public property, not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet in area, owned and installed by a duly constituted governmental
body, including cities, counties, states, federally recognized tribal
governments, and the government of the United States, including any trust or
agency thereof. Such signs include traffic control signs; signs for designation
of or direction to any school, hospital, historical site, or public service,
property, or facility; and similar governmental signage;
   (C)   Signs located on private property, not exceeding thirty-two (32)
square feet in area, and required by law to be posted, such as change of zoning
notices, designation of fire lanes, handicapped parking designations, notices
of nuisance abatement, etc., or which cannot be viewed from a public street;
   (D)   Signs serving a public safety or protective function such as warnings
at railroad crossings; warnings of health hazards; prohibitions against
trespassing, swimming, dumping or hunting; construction site warnings on public
or private property (including a sign erected on the lot on which construction
is taking place or on a building undergoing tenant or occupant change that
advises the public of pertinent information regarding the construction,
management, leasing and future tenants of the building(s)); warnings on
pressurized pipelines; and other similar signs;
   (E)   Memorial signs and tablets displayed on private property,
commemorating historic events or the death of individuals, including memorial
signs on tablets containing the names of buildings and date of erection, when
cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible material, shall be exempt from these regulations;
   (F)   Address numerals and other signs that are required to be maintained by
law or governmental order, not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, and the
names of subdivisions substantially as specified on the recorded plat of the
subdivision, if made part of the perimeter fencing of the subdivision and
located near the entrance to the subdivision, using letters no more than twelve
inches (12") high;
   (G)   Window displays and temporary on site signs placed in or upon windows
of commercial or industrial buildings, whether painted or attached from the
inside;
   (H)   Signs designed as an integral part of vending machines and dispensing
equipment, signs that are an integral part of merchandise display racks, and
similar merchandise and advertising displays. All such signs included in this
exception shall be located adjacent to and within four feet (4') of the
building and not on municipally owned right-of-way; provided, however, such
signs located on service station properties may also be located on, or
immediately adjacent to, the service islands. This provision shall in no way be
deemed to permit the display or storage of merchandise, vending machines or
equipment not otherwise permitted by the provisions of this code;
   (I)   Signs physically painted or permanently affixed on the exterior of a
truck, bus, trailer or other vehicle while operated in the normal course of a
business which is not primarily the display of such signs, provided that the
vehicle is mechanically and legally capable of being driven on the public
streets;
   (J)   Scoreboard structures in athletic stadiums, owned and operated by any
public or private educational institutions where physical education is part of
the curriculum, or owned and operated by any unit of local government where
physical education and sport is part of the park program. Provided that the
scoreboard structure shall be oriented to serve the sports participants and any
associated audience;
   (K)   Any sign within and oriented to be read from the interior of a
building or vehicle;
   (L)   Any sign while actually being carried by an individual human being, so
long as vehicular or pedestrian traffic is not impeded;
   (M)   A sign not exceeding six (6) square feet, placed on a residential
parcel by the owner or occupant thereof, or by their authorized agent, if
placed outside of any public right-of-way or easement;
   (N)   Business identification signs consisting solely of the legally
protected name or trademark or address of the business, if located on or
parallel to the exterior wall of the building in which the business is located
and which sign:
      (1)   Projects more than twelve inches (12") from the wall,
      (2)   Does not block any windows, entrances, or architectural features of
the building, and
      (3)   Does not extend above the lower edge of the roof at that part of
the building; provided that the total area of the business identification sign
shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of the wall on which it is
located;
   (O)   Seasonal decorations located on private property and pertaining to any
recognized national, state and local holidays or religious observances;
provided that such decorations shall not be erected earlier than five (5) weeks
prior to the holiday or observance and shall be removed no later than two (2)
weeks after said holiday or observance;
   (P)   Mural containing artistic merit and consisting exclusively of paint
applied to the wall of a commercial, office, or industrial building or
alternate surface without application of any other material or framing, that
depict a scene or scenes that are based on an accurate historical research of a
local person or event, or are painted areas that are designed and intended as a
decorative or ornamental feature. A mural shall not be considered a sign if it
contains no advertising, logos, trademarks, or references to any information,
products or services whatsoever, either on or off premises;
   (Q)   Real estate sign:
      (1)   In residential zoning:
         (a)   Shall advertise only the sale or lease of premises on which the
sign is placed;
         (b)   Shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet of display surface area
and four feet (4') in height;
         (c)   Shall not be illuminated;
         (d)   No more than one sign per street frontage;
         (e)   Shall be removed within ten (10) days of sale, lease or rental
of the property;
         (f)   In the case of a special event such as an annual or semiannual
“parade of homes” or a neighborhood association housing tour, a single sign for
the event may be placed on a property included in the event; provided the sign
shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet of display surface area and shall
not remain on the property longer than twenty-one (21) days, and the event may
not be held more often than annually.
      (2)   In office, commercial or industrial:
         (a)   Shall advertise only the sale or lease of premises on which the
sign is placed;
         (b)   Shall not exceed sixty-four (64) square feet of display surface
area and eight feet (8') in height;
         (c)   Shall be limited to property already zoned for office,
commercial or industrial districts, provided that property in the A zoning
districts may be advertised for commercial or industrial use if the sign shall
have placed on it letters of at least eight inches (8") in height which state
“PRESENTLY ZONED Agricultural”;
         (d)   Shall not be illuminated;
         (e)   One sign per street frontage;
         (f)   Shall be removed within ten (10) days of sale, lease or rental
of the property.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-16-3 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   The following signs are prohibited throughout the city, and the
erection, maintenance, use or allowance thereof constitutes both a public
nuisance and an offense under this title, punishable on conviction as provided
by this code:
      (1)   Signs which bear or contain statements, words, or pictures in which
the dominant theme appeals to the prurient interest in sex or is patently
offensive because it affronts the contemporary community standard relating to
the description or representation of sexual material, that is utterly without
redeeming social value.
      (2)   Privately owned signs which resemble any regulatory sign or notice
used by the city, county, state or federal government.
      (3)   Signs that utilize searchlights, laser lights, revolving or
rotating beams of light, stroboscopes, or using flame or an open fire as a
source of light.
      (4)   Signs designed or used for the purpose of emitting sound or
dispersing smells; no public address system or other sound device shall be used
in conjunction with any sign or advertising device.
      (5)   Signs where the illuminating light source is directly viewed by the
driver of a vehicle on a public street, without any intervening screening;
provided that this section does not prohibit signs with interior lighting that
passes through any translucent material, but wherein the source of the
illumination is not visible.
      (6)   Signs affixed to a tree, shrub, rock, or any other natural object.
      (7)   Signs affixed by private parties to any light poles, benches,
kiosks, lamps, bus and cab shelters, trash receptacles, landscape planting
boxes and other similar fixtures commonly permitted in pedestrian walkways and
passageways and which are owned by any governmental entity or franchised
utility.
      (8)   Signs consisting of inflatable devices, whether inflated by
mechanically produced air pressure or lighter than air gases.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-16-4 SIGN CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit Required. No person shall display, erect, structurally alter or
relocate any sign or other advertising structure or device, as defined in this
chapter and in the city’s building codes, without first obtaining an erection
permit from the city clerk. All illuminated signs shall, in addition, be
subject to the provisions of the electrical ordinances, and the permit fees
required thereunder.
   (B)   Application. Applications for an erection permit shall be made upon
blanks provided by the city clerk and shall contain or have attached thereto
the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the building, structure or lot to which or upon
which the sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
      (3)   The position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation
to nearby buildings or structures;
      (4)   Two (2) blueprints or ink drawings of the plans and specifications
and method of construction and attachment to the building or in the ground,
when required by the city clerk;
      (5)   A copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the structure is
designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by ordinance, when such is required by the city clerk;
      (6)   The name of the person erecting the structure;
      (7)   The written consent of the owner or lessee of the premises upon
which the sign is to be erected.
      (8)   Such other information as the city clerk shall require showing full
compliance with all ordinances.
   (C)   Approval of Electrical Inspector Required for Electrically Wired
Signs.
      (1)   The application for a permit for erection of a sign or other
advertising structure in which electrical wiring and connections are to be used
shall be submitted to the electrical inspector, if required by the city clerk.
      (2)   The electrical inspector shall examine the plans and specifications
respecting all wiring and connections to determine if the same complies with
the electrical ordinances and he shall approve the permit if the plans and
specifications comply with such ordinances, or disapprove the application if
noncompliance with such ordinances is found.
      (3)   This action of the electrical inspector shall be taken prior to
submission of the application to the city clerk for final approval or
disapproval of the permit.
   (D)   Fee. Prior to the issuance of a permit pursuant to the provisions of
this section, the permit applicant shall pay to the city treasurer the fee
established in the general schedule of fees.
   (E)   Issuance.
      (1)   Upon the filing of an application for an erection permit, the city
clerk shall cause to be examined the plans and specifications and other data,
and the premises upon which it is proposed to erect the sign or other
advertising structure.
      (2)   No person shall be issued a permit pursuant to the provisions of
this section unless he is a sign contractor licensed by the city, except as
provided for murals.
      (3)   If it appears that the proposed structure is in compliance with the
provisions of the building code and with all the requirements of this chapter
and all other laws of the city, the director shall issue the erection permit.
   (F)   Term. If the work authorized under an erection permit has not been
completed within six (6) months after date of issuance, the permit shall become
null and void.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 11-16-5 SIGNS ACCESSORY TO PRIMARY USE OF LAND.
   (A)   General Prohibitions.
      (1)   Unless specifically permitted in another section of this chapter, a
privately owned sign shall not be erected on or over the public right-of-way.
At the intersections of two (2) or more public streets, or a street and an
alley, or a street and a commercial or industrial driveway, signs shall not be
erected on or over the sight triangle necessary for the vehicular use of the
streets. Merchandise, such as tires, produce, automotive vehicles, and any
other articles for display or sale, shall not be located in any manner in the
public right-of-way.
      (2)   Where a parcel is occupied by a use or structure which does not
conform to the use regulations of the zoning district in which said parcel is
located, no new sign shall be erected on said parcel until the use is changed
to become conforming.
      (3)   The painting, scattering, posting, or spreading in any manner along
any public right-of-way or public property of any signs, bills, wastepaper,
paper, cloth, or other materials used in advertising is prohibited. This
prohibition shall include the posting of such materials on any utility pole or
device.
      (4)   Any sign that is not anchored to the ground, such as A-frame,
sandwich signs, and swinger signs are prohibited.
      (5)   The erection, construction or maintenance of any sign which will
obstruct any fire escape, stairway, or standpipe or which will be attached to
or supported by a fire escape or stairway, or which will interfere with human
exit through any emergency opening, or which will obstruct the exterior door or
required exit of any building, or which will obstruct any legally required
light or ventilation is prohibited.
      (6)   No sign shall occupy a parking space required under the applicable
provisions of the city’s ordinances.
      (7)   No trailer or vehicle larger than a one and one-half (1-1/2) ton
capacity van or pickup truck shall be parked on the street side of a business
property for purposes other than immediate loading or unloading.
   (B)   Owner and Sign Contractor Responsibilities.
      (1)   Construction Details. Before any permit is granted for the erection
of a sign, plans and specifications shall be filed with the building official
showing the dimensions, materials and required details of construction,
including loads, stresses and anchorage.
      (2)   Identification. Every sign for which a permit has been issued and
hereafter erected, constructed or maintained shall be plainly marked with the
name of the person, firm or corporation owning, erecting, maintaining or
operating such sign. The method and location of this identification shall
appear on the plans and within the specifications filed with the building
official.
      (3)   Alterations. A sign shall not be enlarged or relocated except in
conformity to the provisions of this chapter for new signs, nor until a proper
permit has been secured. The changing of movable parts of an approved sign that
is designed for such changes, or the repainting or reposting of display matter,
shall not be deemed an alteration, provided the conditions of the original
approval and the requirements of this chapter are not violated.
      (4)   The owner of any property on which a sign is located and those
responsible for maintenance of the sign shall be equally responsible for the
conditions of the area in the vicinity of the sign and shall be required to
keep this area clean, sanitary, and free from noxious or offensive substances,
rubbish and flammable waste materials.
      (5)   The sign shall not be located within one hundred fifty feet (150')
of a residential district if lighting from such sign can be seen from the
district.
   (C)   Construction Standards; Signs with Foundations of Concrete, Masonry or
Similar Materials. Signs with foundations, commonly called monument signs and
pole signs, shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   An inground concrete footing a minimum of twelve inches (12") in
diameter and eighteen inches (18") deep for all supporting members of the sign
when using “J” bolts of at least one-fourth inch (1/4") diameter or similar
anchors, placed to a minimum depth of two inches (2") in said concrete.
      (2)   A minimum six inches (6") in diameter concrete filled hole eighteen
inches (18") deep for all supporting members of the sign when supporting
members are encased in concrete.
      (3)   Such higher and stronger standards as may be required to secure the
sign against the anticipated weight and wind pressure exerted on or by the
exposed structure of the sign.
      (4)   Be so located so that the highest point on the sign structure is at
or below the maximum height for buildings or structures within the zoning
district.
      (5)   Have a maximum display surface area of one hundred forty-four (144)
square feet.
   (D)   Foundation Signs for Commercial, Office or Industrial Buildings. Each
commercial, office or industrial building shall be entitled to at least one
sign with foundation. Such a sign must be located so that no part of the
foundation or the exposed sign structure is in any public right-of-way. Such a
sign must be located so that no part of the foundation is in any public
easement and if any portion of the exposed sign structure is over a public
easement, such portion must be elevated a minimum of fourteen feet (14') above
the mean ground elevation of the surface of that easement. In the event that a
commercial, office, or industrial premises consists of multiple lots or
multiple buildings, no more than one additional sign with a foundation may be
constructed on the premises for each additional two hundred feet (200') of
frontage on a public street after the initial two hundred feet (200') of
frontage. Partial segments of frontage shall be disregarded, but corner lots
shall be measured along the frontage from extreme point to extreme point while
passing through the corner at the intersection, as if the distance were a
straight line. Any premises on which multiple signs are authorized by virtue of
street frontage must place and orient each sign in a manner so as to be seen by
persons traveling on the street which gives rise to the authority for the
additional signage, and signage on corner lots or on lots that front on two (2)
streets may not concentrate such additional signage toward a single frontage.
   (E)   Foundation Signs for Agricultural Premises. Each agricultural premises
having an area of twenty (20) acres or more, and having street frontage of
three hundred thirty feet (330') or more shall be entitled to at least one sign
with foundation. Such a sign must be located so that no part of the foundation
or the exposed sign structure is in any public right-of-way. Such a sign must
be located so that no part of the foundation is in any public easement and if
any portion of the exposed sign structure is over a public easement, such
portion must be elevated a minimum of fourteen feet (14') above the mean ground
elevation of the surface of that easement. In the event that the agricultural
premises consists of land having greater than three hundred thirty feet (330')
of frontage on a public street, no more that one additional sign with a
foundation may be constructed on the premises for each additional three hundred
thirty feet (330') of frontage on a public street after the initial three
hundred thirty feet (330') of frontage. Partial segments of frontage shall be
disregarded, and measurements shall not be used to go beyond the corner of
intersecting public streets. Signs in agricultural districts may have a maximum
display surface of no more than two hundred ten feet (210').
   (F)   Temporary Signs. Any ground sign which is located without use of a
foundation, and any sign constructed of paper, flexible plastic, cloth or
comparable materials, and any banner or pennant shall be used for no more than
sixty (60) days at a time, and no more than three (3) times in a calendar year.
Such temporary signs must be directly anchored or tied to anchors extending at
least six inches (6") into the ground. In the event of a declared weather watch
or warning involving winds in excess of fifty (50) miles per hour, the owner of
the temporary sign or the owner of the premises must remove the sign to an
enclosed storage space for the duration of the declared watch or warning.
Temporary signs shall not have more than twelve feet (12') of display surface
area.
   (G)   Wall Signs, Projecting Signs, Marquee Signs, and Roof Signs. In lieu
of one or more signs with foundations, commercial, office and industrial
properties may construct and use a wall sign, projecting sign, or marquee sign.
Such a sign:
      (1)   Shall be placed behind all platted setback lines, provided that
marquee signs and projecting signs may be placed over sidewalks in commercial
zoning districts if and only if the lowest point of the building’s marquee and
the lowest point on the sign are each at least eight feet (8') above the
sidewalk and do not protrude into the sight triangle of any street or alley,
nor within two feet (2') of the curb of any public street.
      (2)   Shall have the maximum display surface area of one hundred forty-
four (144) square feet;
      (3)   Shall have a separation of at least two hundred feet (200') from
another sign of the same type.
      (4)   Roof signs shall have a maximum height above the roofline of
sixteen feet (16') or the maximum height for buildings and structures within
the zoning district, whichever is less.
      (5)   No sign shall be wider than the surface to which it is mounted.
   (H)   Special Conditions for Commercial Land. Where commercial property is
located within three hundred thirty feet (330') of a federal or state limited
access highway, one of the signs with a foundation may be elevated on a pole to
a location above the maximum height for the zoning district to the minimum
final elevation sufficient to be seen at night from the highway by the drivers
of vehicles thereon. If the final elevation exceeds fifty feet (50'), the
display surface of the sign may be increased to a total of two hundred fifty
(250) square feet. This sign shall be in lieu of, and not in addition to any
other signage that the lot may be allowed.
   (I)   Portable Signs. Portable signs are hereby declared to constitute a
public nuisance by reason of the following:
      (1)   The mobility of portable signs undermines enforcement efforts to
prevent the signs from being placed in the street right-of-way or in parking
areas, where they impede the safe and orderly flow of vehicular traffic and
pose a hazard for pedestrians.
      (2)   The appearance of portable signs creates blight on the community,
reducing the value and desirability of surrounding property, inhibiting
economic development by creating a negative visual image of the city, and
generally damaging the aesthetic quality of life for the citizens of the city.
      (3)   Portable signs are extremely likely to become traffic hazards or
projectiles in the event of sudden wind conditions, creating unreasonable risk
to the public. No person, organization, or entity shall erect or place on any
property within the city any portable sign, as so defined in this chapter.
      (4)   Any portable sign lawfully in existence on March 1, 2007, shall be
deemed a nonconforming use. All portable signs made nonconforming by the
adoption of this section shall be permitted to exist for a period of six (6)
months from the effective date hereof, at which time such portable signs shall
be removed. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property on
which the portable sign is located and/or the sign contractor last owning,
maintaining or operating any nonconforming portable sign to cause such portable
sign to be removed at or before the time established herein.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-2-2007)
TITLE 12: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
1.    PURPOSE; JURISDICTION; DEFINITIONS
         
2.    GENERAL PROCEDURE; ADMINISTRATION
         
3.    DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS
         
4.    IMPROVEMENTS
         
5.    STORM DRAINAGE AND DESIGN STANDARDS
         
6.    PLAT PREPARATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE
         
7.    VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
CHAPTER 1: PURPOSE; JURISDICTION; DEFINITIONS
Section
   
12-1-1   Purpose
   
12-1-2   Statutory Authority
   
12-1-3   Jurisdiction
   
12-1-4   Definitions
§ 12-1-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Governmental Authority. The subdivision of land is the first step in
the process of urban development. The regulation of land subdividing within a
formalized procedure provides for the evolution of a contract between the
landowner and/or developer and a governmental entity acting in behalf of the
public and for the benefit of subsequent individual owners and/or tenants.
Precise commitments concerning a described geographic area of proposed urban
development are specifically set forth in relation to, and in accord with,
graphic and written documentation as filed of record.
   (B)   Health, Safety and Economic Conditions. The arrangement of land
parcels in the community for residential, commercial, and industrial uses and
for streets, alleys, schools, parks, and other public purposes will determine
to a large degree the conditions of health, safety, economy, and amenity that
prevail in the urban area. The quality of these conditions is a public
interest. It is the purpose and intent of the subdivision regulations to make
provisions for adequate light, air, open spaces, drainage, transportation,
public utilities, and other needs; creating an environment which will provide
the setting for the accomplishment of the best possible quality of life for all
citizens of Chandler and in a manner that will ensure the minimum adverse
effect to the environment.
   (C)   Administration. These regulations are designed, intended, and should
be administered in a manner to:
      (1)   Implement the Chandler comprehensive plan in relation to:
         (a)   The use of land and land use relationships;
         (b)   The transportation system, including, but not limited to,
highways, streets, alleys, and sidewalks;
         (c)   Community facilities, including recreational and educational
facilities, fire stations, etc.;
         (d)   The extension or expansion of the sanitary sewer system,
including adequate easements to accommodate lines and facilities;
         (e)   The extension or expansion of the water distribution system and
the provision of fire hydrants including adequate easements to accommodate
lines and facilities;
         (f)   The appropriate disposition of surface water runoff; and
         (g)   The accommodation of all other utilities within adequate
easements.
      (2)   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of
slums and blight.
      (3)   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land
to the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts.
      (4)   Provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract, and that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the whole
community be borne by the whole community.
      (5)   Provide the best possible design for the tract.
      (6)   Reconcile any differences of interest.
      (7)   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision.
      (8)   Ensure a maximum effort for the protection of the environment and
encourage, in the development of land, the minimum adverse effect thereto.
   (D)   Platting of Land; Approval. This document intends to require that all
land located in the city be platted in conformance with these provisions prior
to the actual accomplishment of urban and suburban development and that an
approved final plat shall be filed of record prior to the issuance of a
required building permit for the development of any and all institutional,
industrial, commercial, and urban and suburban residential uses; provided
however, that variations and exceptions are accommodated in
chapter 7  of this title enumerating those cases where the full application of
these provisions is not required.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-1-2 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   In order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of present and
future residents, and to bring about the coordinated, efficient, and economic
development of the city, the following regulations for the subdividing and
developing of land within its corporate limits are adopted by ordinance passed
by the city council under the authority granted by 11 O.S. §§ 41-101 et seq.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-1-3 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations and development standards shall apply to the following
forms of subdividing and/or developing of land within the corporate limits of
the city:
   (A)   The division of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, sites, or
parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain less than five (5)
acres in area; or
   (B)   The redividing of previously platted land into tracts, lots, sites, or
parcels, any part of which, when redivided, shall contain less than five (5)
acres in area; or
   (C)   The development of land in a manner not in strict conformance with the
plat and plans filed of record; or
   (D)   The dedication, vacation, or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies; or
   (E)   The dedication or vacation of any street or alley through any tract of
land regardless of the area involved; or
   (F)   Any commercial or industrial development; or
   (G)   Any tract, lot, site, or parcel of land, regardless of size, which is
to be developed and on which exists or will exist, because of such contemplated
development, any topographic feature or improvement requiring the dedication or
reservation of an easement, public or private, under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-1-4 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use, which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street. Its primary use will be for public utility purposes.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the code enforcement officer’s
interpretation of any provision of this title or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one foot (1') to three
feet (3'). This condition occurs where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights-of-way, public
walks, parks or greenstrips, rural land or drainage channels or a combination
thereof.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line or lines designating the area outside
of which buildings may be erected.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive development plan for the city which
has been officially adopted to provide long range development policies for the
area subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and which includes,
among other things, the plan for land use, land subdivision, housing, traffic
circulation, and community facilities, utilities and drainage facilities.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of property or his agent engaged in the subdivision or
improvement of, or the construction of, structures upon land within the city of
Chandler.
   DEVELOPMENT. The improvement of, or the subdividing of, a tract of land,
including the erection or construction of any additions to existing buildings
where outer walls are added or altered as to location, but not including
alterations or remodeling of buildings where said outer walls are not added or
altered as to location. In flood prone areas, DEVELOPMENT shall mean any
manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not
limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavations, or drilling operations.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more mobile home lots for
rent or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on
which the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete
pads, and the construction of streets) is completed before the effective date
of this title.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
pads, or the construction of streets).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community issued by
the federal insurance administration, where the areas within the boundaries of
special flood hazard have been designated as zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the federal insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration which contains flood profiles, the water surface elevation of
the base flood, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway map.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used for storage purposes only is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   LOT. A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of, and abutting on, two (2)
or more streets.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two (2) nonintersecting sides abutting on two (2) or more
streets.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. A relocation of the lot lines of two (2) or more lots
included in a plat which is filed of record, for the purpose of making
necessary adjustments to building sites.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more mobile home lots for rent or sale
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which the
mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the
construction of streets) is completed on or after the effective date of this
title.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The city planning commission of the city of Chandler.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of a land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record with necessary affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and
with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks,
streets and alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the
character and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land located adjacent to a public easement or
right-of-way which has the effect of denying access by adjacent property owners
to said public easement or right-of-way.
   SETBACK LINE. A line or lines designating the outer limits of street and
highway right-of-way requirements.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan drawn at a scale of not less than one inch
equals fifty feet (1" = 50') which shows the topographic characteristics of the
site at a contour interval of not less than one foot (1'); the location and
dimensions of buildings, yards, courts, landscape, pedestrian and vehicular
circulation and parking, fences and screening; service areas and service
courts, and other features; the use of each building and area; the height of
buildings, adjacent streets, alleys, utility, drainage and other easements and
the relationship of the development to adjacent areas which it may affect.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footing, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not as part of the main structure. For a structure (other
than a mobile home) without a basement or poured footings, the START OF
CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure
or any part thereof on its piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a
mobile home park or mobile home subdivision, START OF CONSTRUCTION means the
affixing of the mobile home to its permanent site. For mobile homes within
mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions, START OF CONSTRUCTION is the
date on which the construction of facilities for servicing the site on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the construction of
streets, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and
installation of utilities) is completed.
   STREET. Any public or private right-of-way which affords the primary means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which collects traffic from other minor streets
and serves as the most direct route to a major street or a community facility.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having one end open to vehicular traffic
and having one closed end, terminated by a turnaround.
   STREET, FRONTAGE OR SERVICE. A minor street auxiliary to and located on the
side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent areas
and for control of access.
   STREET, MAJOR. An arterial street which is designated on the major street
plan or expressway plan.
   STREET, MINOR. Any street not classified as a major street or collector
street on the major street plan or expressway plan.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a mobile home.
   SUBDIVIDER (DEVELOPER). Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other
entity, acting as a unit, subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein
defined.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of land into two (2) or more lots,
tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for
development, or the dedication or vacation of a public or private right-of-way
or easement.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: a) before the improvement or repair is
started; or b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term
does not, however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a
structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety
code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions; or b) any alteration of a structure listed on the national register
of historic places or a state inventory of historic places.
   URBAN AREA. All that part of the incorporated area of the city which is
designated on the Chandler comprehensive plan for urbanization.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this title
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A VARIANCE,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this title.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
CHAPTER 2: GENERAL PROCEDURE; ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
12-2-1   Administration and Amendment
   
12-2-2   Plat Approval, Final and Preliminary
   
12-2-3   Compliance with Zoning Regulations
   
12-2-4   Plat Submission; Agenda
   
12-2-5   Filing Fee
   
12-2-6   Sale of Property Not Abutting Public Street
   
12-2-7   Official Recording
   
12-2-8   Issuance of Permit
   
12-2-9   Suitability of Land
   
12-2-10   Validity
   
12-2-11   Penalty
§ 12-2-1 ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT.
   The city council may, from time to time, adopt, amend and make public rules
and regulations for the administration of this title to the end that the public
be informed and that approval of plats be expedited. The regulations of this
title may be enlarged or amended by the city council after public hearing, due
notice of which shall be given as required by law.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-2 PLAT APPROVAL, FINAL AND PRELIMINARY.
   For all cases of subdividing within the scope of these regulations, a
preliminary and a final plat of the land in question shall be drawn and
submitted to the planning commission and city council for their approval or
disapproval, as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-3 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
   In order to provide adequate information for evaluation and decision by the
planning commission and city council, and to provide documentation of intent
for public record, the following requirements are mandatory:
   (A)   Rezone and Preliminary Plat.
      (1)   A rezoning request which includes any amount of unplatted land
shall be accompanied by a preliminary plat of the land in question, and any
adjacent land which is fifty percent (50%) or more owned or under option to buy
by the applicant; provided however, that any land for which a plat is not
required as a prerequisite for a building permit is exempted from this
requirement.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall be submitted for consideration as an
agenda item before the planning commission simultaneously with the rezoning
request.
   (B)   Zoning Compliance; Final Plat. Provided that no final plat may be
considered for acceptance by the planning commission or the city council until
the proper zoning in terms of density, lot size, and land use is in full force
and effect regarding the subject property.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-4 PLAT SUBMISSION; AGENDA.
   Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be placed on the
planning commission’s agenda only after fulfilling the appropriate requirements
of this title. However, a plat not meeting all the requirements may be
submitted if the subdivider presents with the plat a letter requesting the
specific exception(s) and enumerating in detail the reason(s) therefor.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-5 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Fee Imposed. To defray partially the costs of notification and of
field and special studies, a filing fee shall be paid to the city clerk at the
time of submission of the preliminary plat in such amount as established by the
city’s fee schedule.
   (B)   Time Limit for Submitting Final Plat. Where only a portion of an
approved preliminary plat is submitted for final platting, a final plat of the
remaining area may be submitted at any time within two (2) years of the
preliminary approval without payment of an additional preliminary plat filing
fee by the subdivider if the final plat for the additional area conforms
substantially with the approved preliminary plat.
   (C)   Review Changes In Preliminary Plat. After a period of two (2) years
from the date of approval of the preliminary plat, the planning commission may
review the approved preliminary plat in the instance of changed circumstances
and conditions. In any instance where a final plat includes a rerouting of a
collector street, a change in relationship between uses of land or a request
for a change of specific elements of the preliminary plat, then the preliminary
plat shall be reviewed, and if the two (2) year period has expired, the
subdivider shall pay a full plat filing fee on that part of the preliminary
plat not previously filed of record as a final plat.
   (D)   Basis for Calculating Fee. The filing fee shall be calculated on the
basis of the total lots included within the property proposed to be platted.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-6 SALE OF PROPERTY NOT ABUTTING PUBLIC STREET.
   Except as permitted by chapter 7 of this title, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to sell to any other person, firm or corporation
any lot, parcel, tract or block of land to be used for other than agricultural
purposes, regardless of the size or shape of said lot, parcel, tract or block,
unless such lot, parcel, tract or block of land abuts on a public street or
road for the distance required by the zoning regulations pertaining to the
zoning district in which such lot, parcel, tract or block of land is situated.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-7 OFFICIAL RECORDING.
   No plat or description of land subdivision shall be filed in the office of
the county clerk, Lincoln County, until it has received preliminary and final
approval by the planning commission and final approval by the city council, as
required by law. All final plats shall be filed, if approved by the city
council, within one year of the date of consideration by the planning
commission; and no lot shall be sold from any plat until it has been recorded
as herein provided. Failure to record such approved plat within one year of
planning commission consideration shall void all approvals thereto.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-8 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   No building permit shall be issued for any purpose with respect to any tract
until a final plat has been duly processed as required by law and filed of
record, except as provided in chapter 7 of this title.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-9 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   Land in the channel of a watercourse or drainageway and those portions in
the flood hazard district area, as shown on the city adopted flood hazard area
map, and any land deemed by the planning commission to be topographically
unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for residential occupancy,
nor shall such land be platted for any other use which may continue such
conditions or increase danger to health, safety, life, or property, unless
steps approved by the planning commission and in accordance with this title and
other city ordinances are taken to diminish the above mentioned hazards to a
level deemed acceptable by the planning commission.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-10 VALIDITY.
   If any provision, clause, part, or portion of this title is held to be
invalid, or to be in conflict with any lawful order, rule, or regulation of the
state, or any of its agencies, which said order, rule, or regulation lawfully
supersedes the provisions of this title, by a court of competent jurisdiction
and by final order, the remaining provisions, clauses, parts, or portions
thereof shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-2-11 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual or legal entity convicted of violating or failing to
comply with the provisions of any section or subsection of this title shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   (B)   Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense; provided, that any one or more of such offenses
may be set out in any complaint or information filed pursuant to the provisions
of this title, although separate and distinct proof of each day’s offense shall
be required.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
CHAPTER 3: DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS
Section
   
12-3-1   Urban Design Principles
   
12-3-2   Streets
   
12-3-3   Alleys
   
12-3-4   Easements
   
12-3-5   Public Areas and Open Spaces
   
12-3-6   Blocks
   
12-3-7   Lots
   
12-3-8   Building Lines; Residential Subdivisions
   
12-3-9   Neighborhood Unit Development
   
12-3-10   Fire, Sanitation and Police Protection
   
12-3-11   Sidewalks
§ 12-3-1 URBAN DESIGN PRINCIPLES.
   The quality of design of the urban area is dependent on the quality of
design of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good community design
requires the coordination of the efforts of each subdivider and developer of
land within the urban area. Therefore, the design of each subdivision shall be
prepared in accordance with the principles established by the Chandler
comprehensive plan for land use, circulation, community facilities and public
utility services and in accordance with the following general principles:
   (A)   Integration of Uses. It is intended that the Chandler urban area shall
be designed as a group of integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate
commercial, industrial and public facilities. The neighborhood, as a planning
unit, is intended as an area principally for residential use, and of a size
that can be served by one elementary school. Space for religious, recreational,
educational and shopping facilities to serve the residents of the neighborhood
should be provided and designed as an integral part of each neighborhood.
   (B)   Minimum Standards. Minimum standards for development are contained in
the zoning ordinance, the building code and in these regulations. However, the
comprehensive plan expresses policies designed to achieve optimum quality of
development in the urban area. If only the minimum standards are followed, as
expressed by the various ordinances regulating land development, a
standardization of development will occur. This will produce a monotonous urban
setting. Subdivision design should be of a quality to carry out the purpose and
spirit of the policies expressed in the comprehensive plan and in these
regulations rather than be limited to the minimum standards required herein.
   (C)   Lots and Blocks.
      (1)   The size of lots and blocks and other areas for residential,
commercial, industrial and public uses should be designed to provide adequate
light, air, open space, landscaping, and off street parking and loading
facilities.
      (2)   The arrangement of lots and blocks and the street system should be
designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical
features. Tree masses and large individual trees should be preserved. The
system of sidewalks and roadways and the lot layout should be designed to take
advantage of the visual qualities of the area.
   (D)   Streets, Circulation. Circulation within the urban area shall be
provided in accordance with the following design principles:
      (1)   Major streets should be located on the perimeter of the residential
neighborhood.
      (2)   Minor streets should be designed to provide access to each parcel
of land within the residential neighborhood and within industrial areas, and in
a manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should be planned so
that future urban expansion will not require the conversion of minor streets to
arterial routes.
      (3)   Commercial or industrial subdivisions should have access to a major
street by means of a street system designed for such use, but they should not
have access to residential streets in such a manner that encourages or promotes
the movement of foreign traffic through residential neighborhoods.
      (4)   Collector streets should be designed to provide a direct route from
other minor streets to the major street and expressway system.
      (5)   Ingress and egress to residential properties should be provided
only on minor streets.
      (6)   Pedestrianways should be separated from roadways used by vehicular
traffic.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-2 STREETS.
   It is the intent of this section that all lots and blocks provided in a
subdivision abut on a street adequate to accommodate all traffic generated in a
reasonable and safe manner. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade
and location of all streets shall conform to all of the elements of the
Chandler comprehensive plan and the regulations relating thereto, and they
shall be designed in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Continuation of Major Streets. Each subdivision shall provide for the
continuation of all major streets and highways as shown on the major streets
and highways plan.
   (B)   Residential Development. Residential development adjacent to a major
street designated on the adopted Chandler comprehensive plan or major streets
and highways plan shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Only backing or siding residential lots shall be used adjacent to
the above described highways unless a frontage road is provided for local
access purposes. This shall not apply to any residential lots two (2) acres or
more in size.
      (2)   There shall be no openings for vehicular access onto the above
described trafficways except at street intersections, bicycle path
intersections, and at approved openings to commercial areas.
      (3)   Subdivision streets shall not open onto a major street except at an
average interval of not less than one-fourth (1/4) mile, measured from the
centerlines.
   (C)   Commercial and Industrial Subdivisions. Commercial and industrial
subdivisions shall provide access from each parcel to a major street by means
of a street system designed for such use, but they shall not have access to
residential streets in a manner that encourages or promotes the movement of
foreign traffic through residential neighborhoods.
   (D)   Minor Streets. Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   (E)   Collector Streets. Collector streets shall be used in the subdivision
wherever traffic is being collected from minor streets to provide access to a
major street or community facility. Any street shall be deemed a “collector
street” when it serves more than fifty (50) dwelling units.
   (F)   Ingress and Egress. Ingress and egress to multi-family areas having
fifty (50) or more units shall be provided only on collector streets or
frontage roads of appropriate design.
   (G)   Railroad Right-of-Way. Where a subdivision borders on or contains a
railroad right-of-way or limited access highway right-of-way, a street
approximately parallel to, and on each side of, such right-of-way at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land may be required. Such
distances also shall be determined with due regard for the requirements of
approach grades and future grade separation structures.
   (H)   Reserve Strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited, except where their control is placed with the city under conditions
by the city council.
   (I)   Future Street System Plan. A tentative plan of a proposed future
street system shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
   (J)   Large Lots. When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal
building lots or parcels, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to
permit the logical location and opening of future streets and appropriate
resubdivision, with provision for adequate utility easements and connections
for such resubdivision.
   (K)   Streets Crossing Streets. A street crossing another street should
continue on the same alignment; however, if it does not, then the offset shall
not be less than one hundred twenty-five feet (125') measured from the street
centerlines.
   (L)   Right-of-Way Widths. Street right-of-way widths shall be in accordance
with the major street and expressway plan and, where not designated therein,
shall be not less than the following:
Major streets
Primary with median    100 feet
Primary without median 80 feet
Secondary              80 feet
Minor streets
Collector              60 feet
Minor                  50 feet
Cul-de-sac             50 feet
 
   (M)   Grades.
      (1)   The grades of all streets shall not exceed the following, except
where unusual topographic conditions justify, in the opinion of the planning
commission, a modification of these standards:
 
Major streets
   Primary     7 percent
   Secondary   7 percent
Collector streets 10 percent
Local streets     15 percent
 
      (2)   No street grades shall be less than 0.5 percent.
   (N)   Horizontal and Vertical Alignment.
      (1)   The horizontal and vertical alignment for all streets shall be not
less than the following, except in cases of unusual topographic conditions:
         (a)   Horizontal Alignment: Centerline radius.
 
Major streets
   Primary500 feet minimum
   Seconda300 feet minimum
Minor street 100 feet minimum
 
      There shall be a tangent between all reverse curves having an adequate
length in relation to the radii of the curves, to provide for a smooth flow of
traffic.
         (b)   All changes in street grades shall be made with vertical curves
that provide minimum sight distances of not less than the following, except in
cases of unusual topographic conditions:
 
Major street
   Primary and seconda300 feet minimum
Minor street             200 feet minimum
 
      (2)   Sight distance for vertical alignment shall be determined by
measuring from a point 4.0 feet above the roadway surface along a line of sight
to a point 4.0 inches above the roadway surface.
   (O)   Paved Width. The paved width of all streets shall be adequate to serve
the existing and future estimated traffic load for the facility. Lane widths
for all streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   All major streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of not less
than eleven feet (11') or more than twelve feet (12') in width, and lanes for
parallel or emergency stopping of not less than ten feet (10') in width.
      (2)   All minor streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of not less
than ten feet (10') or more than twelve feet (12') in width and lanes for
parallel parking of not less than eight feet (8') in width. Streets should be
developed in accordance with the general standards given in figure 1
(subsection (T) of this section). This figure is included for the purposes of
illustration and is not to be considered a mandatory design standard.
   (P)   Cul-De-Sac. A cul-de-sac should not exceed five hundred feet (500') in
length, measured from the entrance to the center of the turnaround; and if more
than one hundred fifty feet (150') in length, shall be provided with a
turnaround having a radius of not less than forty feet (40') at the curb line.
There shall be provided in the center of the turnaround an unpaved island,
improved with grass and landscaping that will not interfere with sight
distance, which has a radius of not less than twelve feet (12').
   (Q)   Half Streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of this title; and provided, that the planning commission finds it
will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the street
easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is
adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be
platted within such tract.
   (R)   Arrangement. The arrangement of streets shall be such as to cause no
hardship in the subdividing of adjacent properties. The planning commission may
require the dedication of street rights-of-way to facilitate the development of
adjoining properties.
   (S)   Street Names. No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to
the approval of the planning commission.
   (T)   Figure 1, Street Specifications.
RIGHT-OF-WAY (In Feet)
Major Minor
RIGHT-OF-WAY (In Feet)
Major                         Minor
Primary               80 feet Collector             60 feet
Secondary             80 feet Minor                 50 feet
                              Cul-de-sac            50 feet
GRADE (In Percent)
Primary               7 percent
Secondary             7 percent
Collector             10 percent
Local                 15 percent
Minimum grade         0.5 percent
PAVEMENT SURFACE (In Feet)
Primary and secondary 50 feet
Collector             36 feet
Minor                 30 feet
Cul-de-sac            30 feet
LANES AND PARKING
Primary and secondary 2 or 3 lanes, 11 to 12 feet in width, emergency parking
                      lane - 10 feet
Collector             2 lanes, 10 to 12 feet in width, 8 foot parking lane on
                      one side
Minor                 2 lanes, 10 to 12 feet in width, 8 foot parking lane on
                      one side
MINIMUM PAVING THICKNESS
Asphalt Section               Concrete Section
Primary and secondary 6       Primary and secondary 6
Collector             6       Collector             6
Minor                 5       Minor                 5
CUL-DE-SAC MAXIMUM LENGTH
500 feet
 
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-3 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Commercial and Industrial Districts. Alleys shall be provided in
commercial and industrial districts, except that the planning commission may
waive this requirement where other definite and assured provision is made for
service access, such as off street loading, unloading, and parking consistent
with, and adequate for, the uses proposed.
   (B)   Width.
      (1)   Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas shall be not less
than thirty feet (30') in width.
      (2)   Alleys for residential areas may be required by the planning
commission in situations where a benefit therefrom will accrue to the public in
regard to the public health, safety and general welfare. When provided, alleys
shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in width.
   (C)   Intersections. Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment
shall be avoided; but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to
permit safe vehicular movement.
   (D)   Dead End Alleys. Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible; but
if unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the
dead end, as determined by the planning commission.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-4 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Access to Public Utilities. The subdivider shall dedicate to the
public appropriate easements to the end that each and every lot, piece, or
parcel of land within a subdivision shall have access to all available
essential public utilities.
   (B)   Location. Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than ten
feet (10') wide shall be provided along each rear lot line, and along side lot
lines where necessary, for use by public and private utilities. The planning
commission may require aerial easements, and easements of greater width for the
extension of main storm and sanitary sewers and other utilities where it is
deemed necessary.
   (C)   Drainage. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a right-of-way and access thereto
for drainage and public parks and public utility purposes, as necessary, in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of this title.
   (D)   Pipe Line Easements. Pipe lines carrying petroleum products shall be
located in a dedicated easement of not less than fifty feet (50') in width. The
required width of a dedicated easement may be greater than fifty feet (50') on
the advice of the planning commission.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-5 PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Compliance with Comprehensive Plan. The adopted Chandler comprehensive
plan establishes certain goals and principles for the development and retention
of public and private open space areas. The subdivider shall provide on the
preliminary plat a design solution to implement the Chandler comprehensive plan
policies. Accordingly, parks, open space and other public and private area
policies set forth in the Chandler comprehensive plan and related to the
subdivision’s proposed land subdivision parcel shall be set forth on the
preliminary plat for planning commission consideration. Necessary joint
meetings between public and private agencies and the subdivider shall be held
so as to resolve details of Chandler comprehensive plan implementation and
developer responsibility.
   (B)   Public Use Sites. Where, as indicated by the comprehensive plan, a
proposed subdivision contains, wholly or in part, a proposed site for a public
building or other use (except parks and open space), the planning director will
notify the public authority concerned (city council, school board, etc.). If,
within thirty (30) days after such notification, the planning commission is not
advised that such property has been acquired by negotiation and agreement, then
the planning commission will not require that such open space or site be
reserved or included in the subdivision plan.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-6 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length, Width, Shape. The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall
be determined with due regard for the following:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions.
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
      (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (B)   Residential, Length. Blocks for residential use shall not be longer
than one thousand five hundred feet (1,500'), measured along the centerline of
the block. When a block exceeds six hundred feet (600') in length, the planning
commission may require a dedicated easement not less than fifteen feet (15') in
width and a paved crosswalk not less than five feet (5') in width to provide
pedestrian access across the block.
   (C)   Block Width. Blocks used for residential purposes should be of
sufficient width to allow for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth.
Blocks intended for business and industrial use should be of a width suitable
for the intended use, with due allowance for off street parking and loading
facilities.
   (D)   Business and Industrial Use. Blocks intended for business and
industrial use should be of a width and depth suitable for the intended use,
with due allowance for off street parking and loading facilities, and such
blocks shall abut a street dedicated to the public on at least one side.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-7 LOTS.
   (A)   Determination of Size, Shape, Orientation. The size, shape and
orientation of lots shall be appropriate to the location of the proposed
subdivision and to the type of development contemplated. The appropriateness of
a lot shall be determined by the character of the lot development established
on the adjacent properties as exhibited by the prevailing lot width, lot depth,
and lot line arrangements.
   (B)   Facing Collector Street. Lots designed to face a collector street
shall provide adequate means for automobile turnaround within the lot.
   (C)   Residential Lots. Residential lots shall be not less than fifty feet
(50') in width at the front building line and shall abut a street a distance of
not less than thirty-five feet (35'); except that a corner lot shall be not
less than sixty feet (60') in width at the front building line.
   (D)   Side Lot Lines. Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles
or radial to street lines.
   (E)   Depth. The depth of residential lots should be not less than one
hundred feet (100').
   (F)   Area. The area of residential lots shall be not less than six thousand
(6,000) square feet.
   (G)   Lot Size, Residential Subdivisions. In residential subdivisions where
septic tank or individual sewage disposal devices are to be installed, the
minimum lot size shall be:
      (1)   Thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet when percolation rate is
one inch (1") in thirty (30) minutes or less.
      (2)   Forty-three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet when
percolation rate is one inch (1") in thirty-one (31) to sixty (60) minutes.
      (3)   Twenty-two thousand five hundred (22,500) square feet when
percolation rate is one inch (1") in thirty (30) minutes or less and they have
an adequate approved public water system.
      (4)   The subdivision and the size and shape of all lots shall be such
that it will accommodate a properly designed sewage system with adequate
protection of the water supply, including adjacent lots and the public health
of the area.
   (H)   Double and Reverse Frontage. Double frontage and reverse frontage lots
should be avoided except where they are needed to provide for the separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at
least ten feet (10') shall be provided along the portion of the lots abutting
such a traffic artery or other use where screening is required. There shall be
no right of access across a planting screen easement.
   (I)   Multi-Family Developments. Residential lots for multi-family
development shall abut a public street for a distance of not less than fifteen
percent (15%) of the sum of the perimeter dimensions of the lot; provided
however, that for lots located at the terminal end of a cul-de-sac this
requirement may be reduced to ten percent (10%) of the sum of the perimeter
dimensions of such lots.
   (J)   Corner Lots.
      (1)   For corner lots, but not including those in midblock siding on
rights-of-way, a property return with a radius of twenty-five feet (25') or a
twenty-five foot (25') cutback with chord may be required; provided however, if
in the opinion of the planning commission there is an existing or potential
future need, a larger radius or cutback not to exceed forty feet (40') may be
required. On lots reserved to business use, the radius of the return or an
equivalent cutback shall not be less than twenty-five feet (25').
      (2)   Corner lots, including those in midblock siding on a crosswalk
right-of-way, and butt or key lots for residential use shall be at least ten
feet (10') wider than interior lots.
   (K)   Subdivisions, Lots for Commercial or Industrial Use. Lots are not
required for subdivisions for commercial and industrial use where a block is to
be developed and retained under single ownership. When provided, lots should be
of appropriate size and arrangement to provide for adequate off street parking
and loading facilities based on the intended use, and such lots shall abut a
public street, frontage or otherwise, on a minimum of one side.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-8 BUILDING LINES; RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Building lines shall be provided for all residential subdivisions as
follows:
   (A)   Front. A front building line shall be located twenty-five feet (25')
back of the street right-of-way line.
   (B)   Side.
      (1)   A side yard building line on the side of a corner lot abutting the
street shall be located not less than fifteen feet (15') back of the street
right-of-way when such lot is back to back with another corner lot and not less
than twenty feet (20') back of the street right-of-way line in every other
case.
      (2)   A side yard building line shall be provided not less than ten feet
(10') back of a crosswalk right-of-way line on the side of a lot abutting a
midblock crosswalk.
   (C)   Restrictions Shown on Plat. Restrictions requiring buildings to be
located within the building lines shown on the plat shall be set forth on the
plat or on a separate recorded instrument.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-9 NEIGHBORHOOD UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   Whenever a subdivision is developed as a neighborhood unit, wherein adequate
park or playground area is provided, through traffic is cared for adequately
and the majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac or loop type, the
planning commission may vary the requirements of this chapter in order to allow
the subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of streets and lots; but at the
same time protect the convenience, health, safety and welfare of the probable
future residents of the subdivision as well as the character of the surrounding
property and the general welfare of the entire community. However, in no case
shall the lot area be less than six thousand (6,000) square feet for detached
single-family dwellings. In no case will such development be allowed or
building permit issued until a site development plan drawn to scale on cloth or
film and showing all existing and proposed improvements is approved by the
planning commission.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-10 FIRE, SANITATION AND POLICE PROTECTION.
   In the development of land in the urban area, whether according to
traditional patterns or under a variation of neighborhood unit development,
adequate consideration shall be given to fire, sanitation, and police
protection. Pursuant to this end, the following guidelines are mandatory:
   (A)   Location. No dwelling unit site shall be located more than four
hundred feet (400'), measured from the extremity of the site, from an
accessible street improved to city standards.
   (B)   Entry. Each dwelling unit shall have an entry located not more than
one hundred fifty feet (150') from a parking lot, private drive or public
street, accessible and usable for emergency vehicles.
   (C)   Fire Hydrants. All building facades shall be serviced by fire hydrants
installed in accord with standards and specifications of the Chandler city code
and so located such that totality of each facade can be serviced by not more
than three hundred feet (300') of fire hose laid down by a fire vehicle.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-3-11 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be at least four feet (4') in width, four inches (4") thick,
and shall be built two feet (2') off the property line in the street right-of-
way. All construction shall be in accordance with applicable standard
specifications of the city. The sidewalk requirement may be waived for entire
subdivisions or individual streets if the subdivision or street contains no lot
measuring less than one acre in size.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 10-8-2024)
CHAPTER 4: IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
12-4-1   Purpose
   
12-4-2   Improvements Required
   
12-4-3   Logical Extension or Expansion
   
12-4-4   Required Plans; Approval
   
12-4-5   Accomplishment of Improvements; General Procedure
   
12-4-6   Surety Bond
   
12-4-7   Building Permit Issuance Restrictions
   
12-4-8   Maintenance and Supervision of Facilities
   
12-4-9   Permanent Markers
   
12-4-10   Street and Alley Improvements
   
12-4-11   Sidewalks
   
12-4-12   Water Lines
   
12-4-13   Sanitary Sewers
   
12-4-14   Storm Sewers and Drainage
   
12-4-15   Streetlights
§ 12-4-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The statement of conditions and commitments associated with
urbanization is a matter of concern to both public and private interests of the
community. It is essential that the commitments of the landowner (developer),
the commitments of the city, and the conditions associated with land
subdivision be set forth in a precise manner which will clearly specify intent
and the nature of the obligations and conditions assumed by all parties
involved.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to specify the nature of
improvements which shall be required in conjunction with the subdividing and
development of land; to identify the methods which will assure the city and the
public that said required improvements will be accomplished; and further to
prohibit the issuance of a building permit for construction within a recorded,
platted subdivision prior to the completion and city acceptance of all required
off site improvements within the subdivision.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-2 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Enumeration. Unless specifically excluded or excepted in this chapter,
a subdivider shall install and construct the following specified off-site
improvements in conformance with the standards and specifications of this
title:
      (1)   Alleys;
      (2)   Fire hydrants;
      (3)   Permanent markers;
      (4)   Sanitary sewers;
      (5)   Storm sewers and appurtenant drainage structures; when required, to
drain any part or all of the subdivision;
      (6)   Streets;
      (7)   Water mains; and
      (8)   Public areas and open space;
      (9)   Street lights;
      (10)   Sidewalks.
   (B)   Term Described. Hereafter in this chapter, the phrase REQUIRED OFF-
SITE IMPROVEMENTS shall refer to and mean the ten (10) required improvements as
listed in subsection (A) of this section, and the phrase OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS
shall be construed as including these ten (10) enumerated required
improvements.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 12-4-3 LOGICAL EXTENSION OR EXPANSION.
   The development plan for required off site improvements shall be approved by
the city only after it is found that a proposed development, when considered in
conjunction with the entire subdivision and the areas surrounding or adjacent
to it, will contain public utilities and improvements which will be consistent,
compatible, and homogenous with, and will constitute logical and orderly
extensions of, existing public improvements, as well as future improvements to
be installed within and without the boundaries of the subdivision.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-4 REQUIRED PLANS; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Approval by City’s Consulting Engineer. Coincident with the submission
of the final plat for consideration by the planning commission and prior to the
installation and construction of the required off site improvements within any
subdivision, plans and specifications therefor shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer and submitted to the city and the city’s
consulting engineer. The engineer shall, if warranted after the examination and
inspection of said plans and specifications, submit to the planning commission
and thereafter to the city council a report that, in its opinion, the plans and
specifications comply with all current ordinances and standards applicable
thereto. No installation or construction of any public utility or required off
site improvement shall be commenced without approved plans and specifications
and permission from the city’s consulting engineer.
   (B)   Plans Submitted for Approval. Plans for the off site improvements
herein required shall be submitted for approval as follows:
      (1)   Prior to the submission of the final plat for consideration by the
planning commission, two (2) sets of “check” prints of the plans and
specifications for all proposed and required off site improvements shall be
filed with the city and forwarded to the city’s consulting engineer.
      (2)   Five (5) sets of plans and specifications for all required off site
improvements shall be filed with the city for final approval concurrent with
the submission of the request for consideration of the final plat by the
planning commission.
   (C)   Time Limit for Completion; Plan Resubmitted.
      (1)   City approval of off site improvement plans for any required off
site improvement or any part thereof is null and void two (2) years from the
date of approval unless said off site improvements are under construction and
will be completed within ninety (90) days.
      (2)   Plans for which approval has expired shall be resubmitted for
review and current approval before any work is undertaken on the project and
coincident with any consideration of the renewal of a corporate surety bond
associated therewith; provided however, this shall not preclude the city from
instituting a legal action to recover under said corporate surety bond.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-5 ACCOMPLISHMENT OF IMPROVEMENTS; GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Method. The accomplishment of the improvements required herein shall
be assured by either one of two (2) methods, as follows:
      (1)   Construction and tentative approval by the city of required off
site improvements pending, but prior to, the filing of the approved final plat.
      (2)   Filing with the city clerk of a surety bond, for approval and
acceptance by the city council, to secure the actual construction of required
improvements.
   (B)   Assurance of Construction. Either one or a combination of these two
(2) methods shall be used to assure the construction of all required off site
improvements associated with the approval of the city council.
   (C)   Building Permit Issuance. No building permit shall be issued for any
lot prior to the construction of off site improvements as are required by this
title and which have been accepted by the city.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-6 SURETY BOND.
   (A)   Ensure Construction. In lieu of completion of the improvements herein
required, the city council may require the subdivider to file a surety bond
with the city clerk to ensure the actual construction of such improvements,
according to the plans and specifications approved by the planning commission,
within a period of time not to exceed two (2) years from the date of approval
of the final plat.
   (B)   Amount. Such bond shall be in the amount of one hundred percent (100%)
of the estimated cost of the improvement as determined by the planning
commission and with surety and conditions satisfactory to the city council.
   (C)   Building Construction; Utility Service. No building construction shall
be permitted on any lot that does not comply with the provisions of this title
and other applicable elements of the comprehensive plan, and no municipal
utility service will be furnished to such lot.
   (D)   Drainage or Utility Improvements. In any case where the council does
not require a bond for the improvements required herein, no building shall be
permitted on any lot or in any area in a subdivision where the proposed
construction will produce runoff or require utility services that affect other
areas or lots located within or outside the subdivision, unless a bond, in the
amount of one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost, is posted for the
portion of the drainage or utility improvements that will protect the affected
area.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-7 BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Improvements. No building permit shall be issued for any lot prior to
the construction of all off site improvements as are required by this title and
which have been accepted by the city, except as may be provided for in section
12-7-5 of this title.
   (B)   Compliance with Regulations. No building permit shall ever be issued
for any structure on any tract of land which has not been, when required,
subdivided or platted in accordance with this title.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-8 MAINTENANCE AND SUPERVISION OF FACILITIES.
   Where a subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment facilities, water
supply systems, parks and grounds held in common, or other physical facilities
necessary or desirable for the welfare of the area, or that are of common use
or benefit which are not or cannot be satisfactorily maintained by an existing
public agency, provision shall be made which is acceptable to the city council
for the proper and continuous operation, maintenance, and supervision of such
facilities. A copy of the agreements providing for the proper and continuous
operation, maintenance and supervision of such facilities shall be presented to
the planning commission at the time of final platting and shall be filed of
record with the plat of the land thereof.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-9 PERMANENT MARKERS.
   Subdivisions and specific points herein shall be marked as follows:
   (A)   Iron pins at least one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and at least
eighteen inches (18") in length shall be placed on all block corners.
   (B)   Iron pins at least one-fourth inch (1/4") in diameter and twelve
inches (12") in length shall be placed at all lot corners.
   (C)   One permanent benchmark, referenced to the U.S. geological survey
datum (mean sea level), shall be established within each subdivision.
   (D)   All required monuments, iron pins and the benchmark shall be in place
prior to acceptance of street improvements.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-10 STREET AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider of any subdivision designed to be used for residential,
commercial, industrial or other purposes shall lay out, grade and otherwise
improve all streets that are designated on the approved plat or that directly
serve the subdivision in accordance with the specifications of the city and in
accordance with the following provisions and the provisions contained in
section
12-3-2 of this title:
   (A)   Urban Areas. Streets and alleys in the urban area shall be laid out,
graded and otherwise improved as specified in the applicable standards and
specifications governing such construction. Such street layout and all
improvement shall be done under the supervision of the city and shall be
subject to inspection and approval in accordance with the standards and
specifications of this title.
   (B)   Major Streets. Whenever a subdivision contains a major street that
requires a street facility that is more costly than is required to serve the
future occupants of the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay
only the portion of the cost of the major street that would equal the cost of
an improvement required to serve only the subdivision, as determined by the
planning commission.
   (C)   Widths. Street right-of-way and pavement widths shall comply with
standards established in this title. The paving design of the intersection of
any new street with a state or federal highway shall be approved by the
Oklahoma department of highways.
   (D)   Building Permit. No building permit shall be issued for any structure
to be located on any lot within the recorded, platted subdivision until the
streets and street drainage improvements for the lot have been installed,
except as may be provided for in section
12-7-5  of this title.
   (E)   Construction of Streets.
      (1)   Concrete streets shall be constructed in accordance with the
following specifications and diagrams:
         (a)   Local Streets. Six inch (6") compacted subgrade, a five inch
(5") surface of Portland cement concrete and curb and eighteen inch (18")
gutter.
         (b)   Collector Streets. Six inch (6") compacted subgrade, a six inch
(6") surface of Portland cement concrete, a Portland cement concrete curb and
eighteen inch (18") gutter.
         (c)   Major Arterials. Six inch (6") compacted subgrade, a surface of
six inch (6") Portland cement concrete, and curb and gutter.
      (2)   Asphalt streets shall be constructed in accordance with the
following specifications and diagrams:
         (a)   Local Streets. Six inch (6") compacted subgrade, two inches (2")
of compacted asphalt type C, with one coat of chip and seal.
         (b)   Collector Streets. Six inch (6") compacted subgrade, two inches
(2") compacted asphalt concrete with two (2) coats of chip and seal.
         (c)   Major Arterials. Six inch (6") compacted subgrade, two inch (2")
fine aggregate asphalt base plus tack coat, three inches (3") asphalt concrete
type C, with two (2) coats of chip and seal.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0a02e97e9576dee0845dec57474d1852780cda0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2387.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0a02e97e9576dee0845dec57474d1852780cda0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2389.png]
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-11 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Time of Completion. All sidewalks indicated on an approved preliminary
plat shall be completed either:
      (1)   At the time the streets are installed; or
      (2)   On each lot or parcel of land subsequent to the improvement of said
lot or parcel of land, but prior to the final inspections of such improvements
by the city.
   (B)   Construction Specifications. All sidewalks indicated on an approved
preliminary plat shall be constructed according to the specifications and
requirements of these regulations, including the following:
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be shown typically in plan on paving plans.
      (2)   Street rights-of-way shall be graded so that the slope between the
right-of-way limits and the top of the curb will not exceed ten percent (10%)
and be not less than two percent (2%), and the sidewalks shall have a
transverse slope of not to exceed two percent (2%).
      (3)   All sidewalks shall be located within street rights-of-way.
Placement within the street rights of way shall be at the sole discretion of
the planning commission who shall take into consideration the factors of
safety, adjacent sidewalk location, topography, and landscape. On curvilinear
streets the alignment shall generally parallel the curvature of the streets.
The angle of deflection shall not exceed thirty (30) degrees. The minimum
radius of a horizontal curvature shall be fifteen feet (15') measured along the
centerline of the sidewalk. The maximum grade of a sidewalk shall not exceed
ten percent (10%). Steps should be avoided wherever possible and may be
installed only after obtaining the written approval of the planning commission.
      (4)   Sidewalks shall comply with ADA standards in effect at the time of
construction.
   (C)   Occupancy of Dwelling or Business. Once a subdivision plat containing
sidewalks has been accepted, no dwelling unit or business establishment may be
occupied until the sidewalk construction is completed, inspected and accepted
by the city.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 12-4-12 WATER LINES.
   (A)   Lines and Fire Hydrants. In urban areas, the subdivider shall install
water lines and fire hydrants in compliance with the city code.
   (B)   Building Permit. No building permit shall be issued for any structure
to be located on any lot within a recorded, platted subdivision until the
required water lines for the lot have been installed in accordance with
standard specifications for the improvements as adopted by the city council.
   (C)   Rural and Suburban Areas. In rural and suburban areas, water systems
shall be in compliance with the following:
      (1)   Standard design as adopted by the city shall be followed for water
lines tied to city owned distribution facilities. If city facilities are not
available, the city may require the installation of water wells and pumping
facilities in accordance with city standards and specifications, and a
distribution system approved by the city’s consulting engineer and dedicated to
the city.
      (2)   Individual wells, where allowed, shall be approved by the city and
the state health department.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-13 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Urban Areas. In urban areas, the subdivider shall install sanitary
sewer lines in accordance with this title and the standards and specifications
governing sanitary sewer line construction.
   (B)   Building Permit. No building permit shall be issued for any structure
to be located on any lot within an urban, platted subdivision filed of record
until the required sanitary sewer improvements for that lot have been installed
in accordance with standards and specifications as adopted by the city council.
   (C)   Approval of Individual Systems. Individual sewage systems, when
allowed, shall be approved by the city and state health department. In the
instance where individual sewage disposal is proposed by means of septic tank
and filter fields, each lot, block or tract shall have a suitable location for
such treatment system evidenced by one or more percolation tests, the number of
such tests for each lot to be determined by the city and the registered
professional sanitarian of the Lincoln County health department. Said
percolation tests shall be performed by a registered professional engineer or a
registered professional sanitarian and shall not be approved by the city unless
the results of said percolation test meet the minimum requirements of the
Oklahoma state department of health regulations currently in effect.
   (D)   Design. Standard design as adopted by the city shall be followed for
sewer lines tied to the city collection facilities, or if city facilities are
not available, there shall be installed a treatment system where allowed under
this title and approved by the city and the state health department and
dedicated to the city.
   (E)   Private Sewer or Septic System.
      (1)   In those specific instances where city water is available, and was
available on the date of annexation of the particular tract involved, and which
tract satisfies the requirements of all zoning ordinances pertaining to
frontage on a public street or road, but which does not have city sewer service
available, the owner of any such tract of land so involved may install a
private sewer or septic system to serve his particular property and no other;
provided, that the owner of such tract complies with all of the provisions of
this title.
      (2)   If there is not a city water or sewer service within three hundred
feet (300'), then approval can be made for a private system. If city water and
sewer is available, the owner must connect to city water and sewer.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978; Ord. 1979-05, passed 6-5-1979)
§ 12-4-14 STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Construction Specifications. Storm sewers and drainage facilities
shall be provided and constructed in compliance with the standards and
specifications contained in chapter 5 of this title.
   (B)   Building Permit. No building permit shall be issued for any structure
to be located on any lot within a recorded, platted subdivision until the
required storm sewers and drainage improvements for the lot have been installed
in compliance with the city code.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-4-15 STREETLIGHTS
   The developer shall install streetlights at intervals of three hundred (300)
feet, at intersections, at the end of cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets,
pedestrian crossings, walking path crossings and bike path crossings. The City
of Chandler may require or approve alternative intervals based on atypical
block lengths or street layouts.
   Locations not specifically noted above but determined by the City of
Chandler as a special safety and/or security location, may require increased
levels of street lighting.
   Streetlights shall be located within the public right-of-way.
   The developer shall consult with the local electrical utility to determine
the fixture type, lumen output and pole height to best serve the area. The City
of Chandler must approve the selection.
   Streetlights shall be fed by underground circuits unless solar operated
lights are selected.
   Once the streetlights are in place, the City of Chandler will be responsible
for the electrical supply.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 10-8-2024)
CHAPTER 5: STORM DRAINAGE AND DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
12-5-1   Findings of Fact
   
12-5-2   Purpose and Scope
   
12-5-3   Application of Provisions
   
12-5-4   Drainage Classification; Responsibility
   
12-5-5   Flood Hazard Areas, Stream Flow and Runoff
   
12-5-6   Flood Hazard Areas on Major Tributaries and Rivers
   
12-5-7   Minor Tributaries and Surface Drainage Improvements
   
12-5-8   Drainage Channels, Storm Sewers Outside Boundaries
   
12-5-9   Figures
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage prevention, see
title 13, chapter 1
§ 12-5-1 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The periodic flooding of areas within the city results in hazards to life
and property, in the disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of
the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and
general welfare. Flood and associated losses are caused by the location in
flood hazard areas of buildings, structures and uses of land which are
inadequately protected from flooding and erosion, and which contribute to
flooding by impeding the flow of drainage and by increasing flood heights
through displacement of storm water in floodway and flood fringe areas.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-5-2 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The regulations and standards of this title are to protect the various
portions of the urban area from flooding, to provide clean and sanitary
channels for runoff, to prevent pollution of watersheds, streams and natural
drainage channels, to prevent the encroachment of buildings and improvements on
natural drainage channels, to equitably apportion the cost of improvements, to
protect natural scenic areas, and to provide for the conservation of the
natural resources of the area.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-5-3 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   All subdivisions of land shall comply with the design and improvement
requirements herein established for the protection of flood hazard areas and
the prevention of erosion.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-5-4 DRAINAGE CLASSIFICATION; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Classification. For the purposes of this title, drainage shall be
classified as follows:
      (1)   Surface drainage is runoff of such a limited quantity and/or slow
rate that it does not cause erosion of a defined channel.
      (2)   A minor tributary is any drainage channel having a drainage basin
of six hundred forty (640) acres (one square mile) or less in area.
      (3)   A major tributary is any channel having a drainage basin of not
less than one square mile or greater than twenty-five (25) square miles.
      (4)   A river is any channel having a drainage basin of greater than
twenty-five (25) square miles.
   (B)   Responsibility. It is intended that responsibility for drainage be
allocated as follows, unless otherwise specifically designated:
      (1)   The developer of a subdivision is responsible for the following:
         (a)   All surface drainage on the subdivision.
         (b)   All increase in surface drainage outside the subdivision which
results from the development of the subdivision.
         (c)   The improvement of all minor tributaries lying within the
subdivision.
         (d)   Any significant increase in rate or quantity of runoff in any
minor or major tributary or river which results from the development of the
subdivision.
         (e)   Provision for the maintenance of all floodway and flood fringe
areas of major tributaries and rivers which have not been dedicated to the
public.
      (2)   The city and other levels of government will be responsible for the
following:
         (a)   The improvement of floodways or major tributaries.
         (b)   The improvement of river floodways.
         (c)   The maintenance of floodway and flood fringe areas dedicated to
the public.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-5-5 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS, STREAM FLOW AND RUNOFF.
   (A)   Flood Hazard Areas. The designation of flood hazard areas is set forth
on the flood hazard boundary map. The boundaries of all floodway and flood
fringe areas shall be designated on the preliminary and the final plat and
shall be clearly marked.
   (B)   Alternative Methods for Determining Stream Flow and Runoff
Characteristics. For all areas not otherwise designated in a floodway or a
flood fringe area, the developer shall be responsible for having an engineer,
registered in Oklahoma, prepare a drainage assessment of all of the area of the
proposed subdivision and all areas affected by runoff resulting from
development of proposed subdivision in accordance with the following
provisions:
      (1)   The 100-year maximum flood shall be used as the basis for the
sizing of all drainage channels, bridges and other structures unless otherwise
specified.
      (2)   The calculation of all runoff shall be based on saturated
urbanization of the drainage basin for minor tributaries and surface drainage,
as reflected in the comprehensive plan for the city and shall be based on the
maximum degree of urbanization, as reflected in the comprehensive plan for the
drainage basin of a major tributary or river.
      (3)   The calculation of stream flow and runoff characteristics of the
subdivision shall be carried out in consultation with the city’s consulting
engineer, and the methodology and formulas used shall result in quantities
which would be not less than those derived from the application of the
following formulas and values:
         (a)   Runoff from all drainage areas shall be not less than that
determined by rational formula:
 
Q = AIR
Q - Cubic feet per second.
A - Area to be drained in acres, determined by field surveys for areas less
    than 640 acres, and by latest government quadrangle maps for larger areas.
    Percent of imperviousness of the area. This may vary between 40 percent and
I - 95 percent, but no value of less than 50 percent may be used for saturated
    urban development.
    Rate of rainfall over entire drainage area in inches per hour, based on
R - time of concentration and latest government records for the area. Note: Do
    not use for areas above 15,000 square feet.
 
         (b)   The size of closed storm sewers, open channels, culverts, and
bridges shall be not less than that determined by using the Manning formula:
 
Q + 1,486r2/3s1/2 A
n
 
Q - Discharge in cubic feet per second.
A - Cross sectional area of water in conduit in square feet.
r - Hydraulic radius of water in conduit.
s - Mean slope of hydraulic gradient, in feet of vertical rise per foot of
    horizontal distance.
n - Roughness coefficient, based on condition and type of material of conduit
    lining, but not less than 0.013.
 
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-5-6 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS ON MAJOR TRIBUTARIES AND RIVERS.
   All floodway and flood fringe areas located within the subdivision shall be
protected and improved by the developer as follows:
   (A)   Floodways. All floodways shall be designated as “flowage easements”
and shall be maintained as permanent open space for use for private recreation
or agriculture for which no buildings or structures are required, or dedicated
to the public for drainage, recreation and utility use.
   (B)   Flood Fringe Areas. All flood fringe areas shall be planned for uses
which are permitted in the flood fringe area of the zoning ordinance, and in no
case shall the proposed use or construction cause a displacement of floodwater
in the flood fringe that will increase flooding in other areas of the floodway
or flood fringe.
   (C)   Reducing Adverse Effects. When it is determined by the city’s
consulting engineer that the development of the subdivision will significantly
increase runoff in the flood hazard area or will otherwise adversely affect
storm water runoff, the planning commission may require any or all of the
following to the extent needed to reduce the adverse effects of the
development:
      (1)   The existing floodway lying within or immediately adjacent to the
subdivision shall be cleaned to provide for the free flow of water, and the
channel shall be straightened, widened, and improved to the extent required to
prevent overflow beyond the limits of the floodway.
      (2)   Site improvement shall provide for the grading of all building
sites and streets to an elevation where all lots, building areas, and streets
will not be subject to overflow, and in a manner that will provide for the
rapid runoff of all rainfall; however, such improvements will preserve and
protect large trees and attractive physical features of the area.
      (3)   Whenever channel improvement is carried out, sodding, backsloping,
cribbing, and other bank protection shall be designed and constructed to
control erosion for all the anticipated conditions of flow for the segment of
channel involved.
      (4)   A drainage channel shall not be located in a street easement unless
it is placed in an enclosed storm sewer, or unless a paved street surface is
provided on both sides of a paved channel to give access to abutting
properties.
      (5)   Culverts, bridges and other drainage structures shall be
constructed in accordance with the specifications of the city at all locations
where drainage channels intersect with contiguous streets or alleys.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-5-7 MINOR TRIBUTARIES AND SURFACE DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   All minor tributaries and surface drainage located within or immediately
adjacent to and serving the subdivision shall be improved by the developer, as
follows:
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)   All minor tributary channels shall be improved in accordance with
standards set forth in figures 4, 5, and 6 as shown in section
12-5-9 of this chapter or other equivalent standards, as determined by the
city’s consulting engineer. Specifications as shown on figure 7 in section
12-5-9 of this chapter shall be used only for channels or minor tributaries
which drain less than eighty (80) acres and which are designed as an integral
part of the landscape of the area so that maintenance of sodded slopes will be
the responsibility of the property owners abutting the channel.
      (2)   All channels shall be designed for self-cleaning and ease of
maintenance, shall have sufficient hard surface along the flow line to prevent
ponding of water, and shall have design characteristics of alignment, materials
of construction and cross sectioned elements that will be hydraulically
efficient and visually harmonious with the adjacent landscape.
   (B)   Enclosed Storm Sewers. Enclosed storm sewers may be required by the
city’s consulting engineer where special or unusual conditions make open
channels hazardous or otherwise unfeasible.
   (C)   Drainage Channels. A drainage channel shall not be located in a street
easement unless it is placed in a closed storm sewer, or unless a paved street
surface is located on both sides of a paved drainage channel to give access to
abutting properties.
   (D)   Site Grading. Site grading shall be carried out in such a manner that
surface water from each lot shall flow directly to a storm sewer, improved
channel or paved street without crossing more than two (2) adjacent lines.
   (E)   Surface Water. Surface water collected on streets shall be diverted to
storm drains at satisfactory intervals to prevent overflow of six inch (6")
high curbs during a fifty (50) year frequency rain for the area and grades
involved; provided however, that in no case shall the drainage area served by
one street exceed twenty (20) acres, regardless of the amount of flow.
   (F)   Drainage Easements. Drainage easements of satisfactory width to
provide working room for construction and maintenance shall be provided for all
storm sewers. In no case shall the total easement be less than twenty feet
(20').
   (G)   Bridges and Culverts.
      (1)   Bridges or culverts shall be provided where watercourses cross
continuous streets or alleys.
      (2)   Bridges and culverts shall be sized to accommodate a 100-year
frequency rain, based on the drainage area involved.
      (3)   Design of bridges and culverts shall conform to city construction
specifications.
   (H)   Closed Storm Sewers. Closed storm sewers shall be constructed of
precast or prefabricated pipe or built in place of closed box design to conform
with city construction specifications to serve a 100-year frequency rain for
the drainage area involved.
   (I)   Open Paved Storm Drainage.
      (1)   Open paved storm drainage channels shall be constructed in
accordance with city specifications.
      (2)   Side slopes above the paved section shall be shaped and sodded on a
slope of four (4) horizontal to one vertical or flatter.
      (3)   Fences shall be outside of the 100-year frequency flooding line,
shall not be erected below the shoulder of the sodded section, and in no case
shall fences be closer than six feet (6') (measured horizontally) to the edge
of the paved section, except on figure 4 sections in section 12-5-9 of this
chapter.
      (4)   Hand laid riprap may be substituted for sodded shoulders where
desired for landscape purposes.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-5-8 DRAINAGE CHANNELS, STORM SEWERS OUTSIDE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Right to Require Improvements. The city reserves the right to require
improvements, provisions of drainage easements and for provision of agreements
beyond the boundaries of the subdivision to facilitate flow of water through
the addition, to avoid probability of law suits based on damage from changed
runoff in the subdivision, and to provide continuous improvement of the overall
storm drainage system.
   (B)   Requirements. Requirements outside the addition may include the
following:
      (1)   Improvements may be required in channels or storm sewers flowing to
or from the addition, or in channels or storm sewers located in adjacent areas
that are affected by flow of water from the addition.
      (2)   The following kinds of improvements may be required:
         (a)   Enlargement or replacement of undersized drainage structures to
provide free flow.
         (b)   Removal of obstructions.
         (c)   Straightening of channel.
         (d)   Widening or deepening of the channel.
         (e)   Construction of erosion control structures.
         (f)   Back sloping, and/or riprapping of bank.
         (g)   Construction of closed or open paved storm sewers.
   (C)   Property Owner Agreements. Property owner agreements, where required,
shall be designed to protect the city from probable law suits for damage caused
by changed runoff condition.
   (D)   Retention Reservoirs. When subdivision development will result in
increased runoff beyond the boundaries of the subdivision, the city may require
the construction of one or more retention reservoirs within the subdivision
which will temporarily impound and discharge water from the site at the rate
and volume equivalent to the discharge from the site when undeveloped. The
design shall be for a 100-year frequency flood. Plans shall be approved by the
city’s consulting engineer, while the construction and maintenance of retention
reservoirs shall be the responsibility of the developer.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-5-9 FIGURES.
   See following pages for figures 4, 5, 6 and 7.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0a02e97e9576dee0845dec57474d1852780cda0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2391.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0a02e97e9576dee0845dec57474d1852780cda0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2393.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0a02e97e9576dee0845dec57474d1852780cda0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2395.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0a02e97e9576dee0845dec57474d1852780cda0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2397.png]
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
CHAPTER 6: PLAT PREPARATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE
Section
   
12-6-1   Preapplication Plans and Data
   
12-6-2   Preliminary Plat
   
12-6-3   Final Plat
   
12-6-4   Preliminary and Final Plat Checklists
§ 12-6-1 PREAPPLICATION PLANS AND DATA.
   (A)   Submission to Planning Commission. Prior to the filing of an
application for approval of a preliminary plat, the subdivider may submit to
the planning commission plans and data showing his ideas and intentions in the
platting of the proposed subdivision. This “preapplication” is for discussion
purposes only, designed as a method to alleviate the high costs of the
preliminary and final plat preparation for subdivisions with topographical or
other physical irregularities.
   (B)   Outline of Site. The subdivider (developer) shall outline and describe
the site and the proposed development to supplement the drawings and sketches
required in subsections (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   Location Map. A general location map shall be prepared and submitted
and shall show the proposed subdivision and its relationship to existing
community facilities. Such location map shall show the location and name of the
subdivision, existing main traffic arteries, public transportation lines,
schools, parks and playgrounds.
   (D)   Sketch Plan. A sketch plan drawn to scale shall be prepared and
submitted showing the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in
relation to existing utilities and other conditions. This plan may be submitted
in the form of a freehand pencil sketch.
   (E)   Identify Potential Problems. The purpose of this process is to
identify potential problems the developer may encounter with platting of the
proposed subdivision. Decisions made with regard to the preapplication plan are
in no way binding on the part of the planning commission or the developer.
   (F)   Commission Determination. Within thirty (30) days of the submission of
the preapplication plan, the subdivider shall be informed by the planning
commission whether such plans and the data submitted indicate possible problems
in the subdivision platting and development.
   (G)   Platting Requirements. This process will in no way supersede the
preliminary and final plat requirements set forth in this title.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-6-2 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   General. The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat for
presentation to the planning commission. It shall conform with the minimum
requirements of the Chandler comprehensive plan and this title, and shall
include the land in question, and any adjacent land partially or fully owned or
under option by the applicant, notwithstanding that all of said land may never
be finally platted.
   (B)   Filing Application with Planning Commission. In order to be included
on the agenda of the planning commission, application shall be in compliance
with all of the following:
      (1)   Four (4) copies of the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the
office of the city clerk not less than seven (7) days prior to the meeting at
which it is to be considered.
      (2)   It shall be unnecessary, unless, as may be otherwise required, to
submit with said preliminary plat, or at any time, the restrictive or
protective covenants appertaining to said development or subdivision and which
are to be filed of record in the office of the county clerk of Lincoln County,
Oklahoma.
      (3)   When submitted, material must be in complete and final form as
required in this section. Plats failing to meet these requirements by the
filing deadline shall not be placed on the planning commission agenda.
   (C)   Contents of Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a
scale of not more than one hundred feet to the inch (1" = 100'), except where
impractical and shall show:
      (1)   The scale, north arrow, and date.
      (2)   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      (3)   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider, and
the registered land surveyor preparing the plat.
      (4)   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision
referenced to existing or proposed major streets and to government section
lines, and including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of
which the proposed subdivision is a part.
      (5)   The names, with locations of intersecting boundary lines, of
adjoining subdivisions, and the location of the city limits if falling within
or immediately adjoining the tract.
      (6)   The land contours with vertical intervals of two feet (2')
referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic survey
benchmark or monument.
      (7)   The location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin
and/or are immediately adjacent; but actual measured distances shall not be
required.
      (8)   The location of all existing easements of record, sanitary and
storm sewers, water mains, culverts, power lines, and other surface or
subsurface structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto, and the
location, layout, type, and approximate size of the following structures and
utilities:
         (a)   Water mains;
         (b)   Sanitary sewer mains, submains and laterals;
         (c)   Storm sewers; and
         (d)   Street improvements.
      (9)   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, and the proposed method of disposing of all runoff from the
proposed subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements
relating thereto, whether they be located within or outside of the proposed
plat.
      (10)   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, and the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements, and
setback lines, and the approximate lot dimensions.
      (11)   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street based on the
proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate term,
“expressway”, “primary thoroughfare”, “secondary thoroughfare”, “collector”, or
“minor”, in parenthesis, directly on each street.
      (12)   The existing zoning and proposed changes of zoning in the tract
and of the property immediately adjacent thereto.
   (D)   Planning Commission Action.
      (1)   The planning commission shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the plat within sixty (60) days of the date of its submission by the
applicant. If the preliminary plat is disapproved or approved conditionally,
the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall
be signed by the planning commission chairman and shall be attached to one copy
of the plat and transmitted to the subdivider. Unless stipulation for
additional time is agreed to by the subdivider, if no action be taken by the
planning commission, at the end of sixty (60) days after submission, the plat
shall be deemed to have been approved.
      (2)   The reasons for disapproval or conditional approval shall refer
specifically to those parts of the comprehensive plan or specific regulations
with which the plat does not conform.
      (3)   On conditionally approving a plat, the planning commission may
require submission of a revised preliminary plat.
      (4)   If the plat conforms to all of the standards, or after the
applicant and planning commission agree upon any revision which shall be filed
with the planning commission on a revised copy, the preliminary plat shall be
forwarded to the city council for its review.
   (E)   City Council Action.
      (1)   The city council shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the plat within sixty (60) days of the date of its submission by the
applicant. If the preliminary plat is disapproved or approved conditionally,
the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall
be attached to one copy of the plat and transmitted to the subdivider. Unless
stipulation for additional time is agreed to by the subdivider, if no action is
taken by the city council at the end of sixty (60) days after submission, the
plat shall be deemed to have been approved.
      (2)   The reasons for disapproval or conditional approval shall refer
specifically to those parts of the Chandler comprehensive plan or specific
regulations with which the plat does not conform.
      (3)   On conditionally approving a plat, the city council may require
submission of a revised preliminary plat.
      (4)   If the plat conforms to all of the standards, or after the
applicant and city council agree upon any revisions which shall be filed with
the city council on a revised copy, the subdivider may proceed with the laying
out of streets and roads, the preparation of utility plans and with the
preparation of a final plat.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-6-3 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General. The subdivider shall prepare a final plat for presentation to
the planning commission. It shall conform with the minimum standards of this
title and with the preliminary plat approved by the planning commission and
city council.
   (B)   Filing Application with Planning Commission. In order to be included
on the agenda of the planning commission, an application shall be in compliance
with all of the following:
      (1)   A final plat, neatly drawn in ink on tracing cloth, and three (3)
dark line prints thereof shall be submitted to the office of the city clerk not
less than five (5) days before the planning commission meeting at which it is
to be considered for final approval.
      (2)   At the same time, there shall be submitted five (5) sets of the
proposed plans and specifications in final form for all required off site
improvements.
      (3)   At the same tine, where the final plat is submitted for a multi-
family residential development where any lot, tract, or parcel contains in
excess of twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet or, for any commercial or
industrial development, there shall be submitted five (5) copies of a plot plan
which shall be drawn to scale, showing the outer lines within which each
individual structure within the development is to be constructed, in addition
to designated open space; the areas reserved for parking; all points of ingress
and egress to existing, required, or proposed streets; all streets, alleys,
drives, and fire lanes, whether public or private; all public easements; the
location of fire hydrants; service areas; and required screening and fencing.
      (4)   In the instance where the means of sewage disposal is proposed by
individual septic tank and filter fields, the final plat shall be accompanied
by a copy of the Oklahoma state health department form number 581, entitled
“Oklahoma State Department of Health Environmental Health Services Soil Report
for Subdivisions or Individual Sites”, or any applicable form which supersedes
said form for each lot contained within the final plat. Said form shall be
executed by a registered professional engineer or by a registered professional
sanitation.
      (5)   In such instance where the means of sewage disposal is proposed to
be by individual septic tank and filter fields, one dark line print of the
final plat denoting the location on each lot where percolation tests have been
performed shall be filed with the application for approval of the final plat.
      (6)   In the case of a plat proposing the reserving or dedicating of land
to be used in common by owners of lots in the subdivision, there shall be
submitted by the subdivider evidence acceptable to the council of the city that
all necessary steps have been taken for:
         (a)   The establishment of a property owner’s association for
adequately maintaining the common property; and
         (b)   Disposition of the common property in the event of dissolution
of the association.
      (7)   The final plat shall conform with the preliminary plat as approved
by the planning commission, and shall not include the rerouting of a collector
street, a change in the relationship between uses of land, or a change of
specific elements of the preliminary plat. Plats failing to meet these
requirements or other requirements of this title shall not be placed on the
planning commission agenda.
   (C)   Time of Submission.
      (1)   The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be submitted to
the planning commission and city council for final approval within one year of
the date on which the preliminary plat was approved.
      (2)   If not submitted for final approval within such time, the
preliminary plat shall be considered as having been disapproved unless the
planning commission agrees to an extension of time.
      (3)   The final plat shall be filed in the office of the county recorder
within one year after approval by the city council and planning commission, or,
if not filed within such time, said approval shall be considered as having been
voided.
   (D)   Contents. The final plat shall be drawn on a scale of one inch equals
one hundred feet (1" = 100') from an accurate survey and on sheets whose
dimensions do not exceed twenty-two inches by thirty-two inches (22" x 32")
between border lines on a standard twenty-four by thirty-six inch (24" x 36")
sheet. However, in the instance of the platting of a small area, the scale of
the drawing may be changed such that one inch (1") will equal less than one
hundred feet (100') in order to allow a larger representation of the tract. On
the first sheet of every plat there shall be a key map showing the location of
the subdivision referenced to government survey section lines and major
streets. If more than two (2) sheets are required for the plat, the key map
shall show the number of the sheet for each area. A border of one inch (1")
surrounding the sheet shall be left blank at the top, bottom, and right hand
side, and a margin of three inches (3") at the left side for binding purposes.
The final plat shall show:
      (1)   The location and description of all permanent survey monuments in
or near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision shall be
referenced.
      (2)   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes as hereafter specified.
      (3)   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned
by lengths and bearings, and the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands
with adjacent subdivisions identified by official names, and a legal
description of the land being platted on all pages.
      (4)   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles.
      (5)   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length and/or direction
of an alley are not readily discernible from data given for lot and block
lines, the length and/or bearing shall be given.
      (6)   The widths, and names where appropriate, of all proposed streets
and alleys, and of all adjacent streets, alleys, and all proposed easements and
all easements of record, which shall be properly located and identified.
      (7)   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles, except that where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value may be omitted.
      (8)   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public or private use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings, with the area
marked “public” or “private”, as the case may be.
      (9)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision, and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block. If only
a portion of a block shown on an approved preliminary plat is included in a
final plat, the block and consecutive lot numbers assigned thereto shall not be
continued for the remaining lots of such a block at such time as said remaining
lots are final platted. The remainder of such a block shall bear a different
block number and the lot numbers shall be consecutively numbered beginning with
the number one.
      (10)   The location of all building lines, setback lines, easements of
record, and easements being dedicated for public services or utilities with
dimensions to the nearest foot showing their location.
      (11)   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection, and
central angles for all curvilinear streets and radii or cutbacks for all
property returns.
      (12)   The proper acknowledgements of owners and the consent by the
mortgagee to plat restrictions.
      (13)   The following which shall be made and shown on the submitted
original tracing:
         (a)   Owner’s certificate and dedication, executed and acknowledged.
         (b)   Certificate of survey, executed and with land surveyor’s seal.
         (c)   Certificate of bonded abstractor, executed.
         (d)   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public, executed and acknowledged.
         (e)   County treasurer’s certificate, executed.
         (f)   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the county clerk which directly affect the
land being subdivided.
         (g)   Certificate of planning commission approval.
         (h)   Certificate of city council acceptance of ways, easements, and
public land dedications.
         (i)   All signatures affixed in black ink.
      (14)   A title which shall include:
         (a)   Name of the subdivision.
         (b)   Name of city, county and state.
         (c)   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to
section, township, and range.
   (E)   Planning Commission Action.
      (1)   The planning commission shall act upon the final plat within forty-
five (45) days after it has been submitted for final approval. This approval
and the date thereof shall be shown on the plat over the signature of the
planning commission chairman or secretary member. Unless stipulation for
additional time is agreed to by the subdivider, and if no action is taken by
the planning commission at the end of forty-five (45) days after submission,
the plat shall be deemed to have been approved. A certificate by the city clerk
as to date of submission of plat for final approval, and failure of planning
commission to act thereon within such time, shall be sufficient in lieu of
written endorsement of approval.
      (2)   If the final plat is disapproved, grounds for this refusal shall be
stated in writing, a copy of which shall be transmitted with the tracing and
prints to the applicant. The reasons for disapproval shall refer specifically
to those parts of the Chandler comprehensive plan or ordinance with which the
plat does not comply.
   (F)   City Council Action. Before recording the final plat, it shall be
submitted to the city council for approval and for acceptance of public ways
and service and utility easements and land dedicated to public use. This
approval of the plat shall be shown over the signature of the mayor and
attested to by the city clerk or his deputy. The disapproval of any plat or
plan by the city council shall be deemed a refusal of the proposed dedication
shown thereon.
   (G)   Recording of Plat. After final approval of the plat and the affixing
of all required signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider shall
provide the planning commission with two (2) dark line prints thereof, and one
contact reproducible cloth tracing, said tracing to be filed with the city
clerk. One dark line print shall be retained in the permanent file of the
planning commission and one shall be sent to the office of the city clerk. The
applicant shall file the original tracing, one dark line print on cloth, and
one contact reproducible cloth tracing or film with the county clerk, and the
applicant shall pay all required filing fees.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-6-4 PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT CHECKLISTS.
   The various checklists applicable to the preliminary and final plat approval
procedure are attached as an appendix to ordinance 1978-10 on file in the
office of the city clerk.
CHAPTER 7: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
Section
   
12-7-1   Authority to Grant Variations
   
12-7-2   Building Permit for Single-Family Dwelling; Exceptional Circumstances
   
12-7-3   Allowing Lot Line Adjustments
   
12-7-4   Plats Containing Three or Fewer Lots
   
12-7-5   Street Widening; Temporary Variance
§ 12-7-1 AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIATIONS.
   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in this title would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the planning commission, with the approval of
the city council, may vary or modify, except as otherwise indicated, such
requirements of design, but not of procedure or off site improvements, so that
the subdivider may develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so, at the
same time, the public welfare and interests of the city are protected and the
general intent and spirit of this title preserved. Such modification may be
granted upon written request of the subdivider or his engineer, stating the
reason for each modification and may be approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of
the regular membership of the planning commission, subject to the acceptance of
the plat and the dedications thereon by the city council; provided however,
that a variation based on unique condition(s) shall not be granted when the
unique condition(s) was created or contributed to by the subdivider.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-7-2 BUILDING PERMIT FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING; EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   Substandard Improvements. The purpose of this section is to allow, in
some cases, the issuance of a building permit and the subsequent construction
or improvement of a single-family dwelling unit located on a platted lot or
lots in a subdivision filed of record but serviced by substandard or inadequate
off site improvements as required by this title.
   (B)   Conditions for Issuance. An applicant shall not be denied a building
permit for the reason that all required off site improvements are not in place
if all of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The total area of the land for which the building permit is sought
is included within a plat filed of record on or before platting of the original
townsite.
      (2)   Twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the total number of lots
within the subdivision have been developed.
      (3)   The lot for which the building permit is sought is accessible from
street right-of-way adjacent and abutting said lot, and said lot is served
either by an alley or an adequate utility easement.
      (4)   The method of sewage disposal is by connection to the city sanitary
sewer system.
      (5)   No structure or any part thereof is to be located at or below the
elevation of the 100-year flood.
      (6)   Water lines and fire hydrants are in place as a part of the city
system.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-7-3 ALLOWING LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Conditions for Allowing Adjustments. The purpose of this section is to
allow adjustments to be made to lot lines of platted lots for the purpose of
adjusting the size of building sites; however, it is not intended that
extensive replatting be accomplished by use of this section. Said lot line
adjustments shall be permitted for the purpose stated, but shall not violate
any of the provisions of this title and shall meet the following conditions:
      (1)   No additional lot shall be created by any lot line adjustment.
      (2)   No lot line adjustment shall be allowed unless all required off
site improvements are either completed and accepted by the city, or their
construction is secured under applicable requirements contained in this title.
      (3)   All proposed residential dwelling sites contained in a proposed lot
line adjustment shall have a width at the front building line which is equal to
or greater than the narrowest width lot, measured at the front building line
which fronts on the same street as said proposed dwelling site and which is
located within the same block, or is across the street from the same block, in
which said dwelling site is located.
      (4)   All proposed parcels or building sites involved in a lot line
adjustment shall abut on either an existing alley or adequate utility easement
and on a public street.
      (5)   Unusable parcels shall not be created as a result of any lot line
adjustment.
   (B)   Administration. Lot line adjustments shall be administered by the
planning commission with the approval of the city council.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-7-4 PLATS CONTAINING THREE OR FEWER LOTS.
   Whenever there is a tract of land of less than two (2) acres comprising the
total area of a single ownership which is to be resubdivided into three (3) or
fewer lots where all required off site improvements are in place and accepted
by the city and which cannot qualify under the lot split exemption, the
proposed subdivision may be exempt from the procedural provisions of this title
and a preliminary and final plat may not be required; but this shall not
constitute an exemption from any of the design or off site improvement
requirements contained herein. Exemptions which shall be designated as “short
form plats” may be permitted under the following procedures:
   (A)   Survey. An accurate survey of the tract, prepared by a land surveyor
registered in the state of Oklahoma, and the proposed subdivision thereof shall
be submitted to the planning commission. A plat plan shall be submitted with
the proposed “short form plat” in commercial and industrial zoning districts.
   (B)   Review. The planning commission shall review the proposed “short form
plat” to ensure compliance with all design and off site improvement
requirements of this title.
   (C)   Approval or Denial. If the application is approved by the planning
commission, it shall be certified by the signature of the chairman of the
planning commission and attested by the secretary member. If the application is
denied, the reasons for denial shall be stated in writing with reference made
to the express provision of this chapter to which the proposed “short form
plat” does not conform, and a copy thereof shall be transmitted to the
applicant.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 12-7-5 STREET WIDENING; TEMPORARY VARIANCE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide, in specific
cases, as are hereinafter designated, a procedure whereby the city council may
temporarily waive the construction of street widening required by the major
streets and highways plan prior to the issuance of building permits within a
subdivision; provided, that the city council, in its sole judgment, deems that
such street widening shall not immediately be in the interest of the public
health, safety, or general welfare.
   (B)   Condition for Temporary Variance Issuance. The city council may
authorize the issuance of building permits prior to the construction of such
street widening required by the major streets and highways plan only for
existing improved streets which met existing city standards at the time of
construction and which were accepted by the city for public maintenance. The
city council shall authorize such temporary variance only when the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The required widening would not result in the construction of an
additional full traffic lane; and
      (2)   The future widening of such street is secured by an acceptable
corporate surety bond to the city.
(Ord. 1978-10, passed 10-3-1978)
TITLE 13: FLOOD CONTROL
      Chapter
         
1.    FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
13-1-1   Findings of Fact; Interpretation
   
13-1-2   Statement of Purpose; Methods
   
13-1-3   Definitions
   
13-1-4   Floodplain Administrator
   
13-1-5   General Administrative Provisions; Permit
   
13-1-6   Permit Procedures
   
13-1-7   Variance Procedures
   
13-1-8   General Flood Hazard Reduction Standards
   
13-1-9   Special Flood Hazard Reduction Standards
   
13-1-10   Subdivision Proposals
   
13-1-11   Areas of Shallow Flooding
   
13-1-12   Floodways
Cross-reference:
   Storm drainage and design standards, see
title 12, chapter 5
§ 13-1-1 FINDINGS OF FACT; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Findings.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the community are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (B)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the city council; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor appeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
§ 13-1-2 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE; METHODS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (B)   Methods of Reducing Flood Losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; or
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
§ 13-1-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AM, or VO zone on a community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet
(3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A nonbasement building:
      (1)   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of
the water; and
      (2)   Adequately anchored so at not to impair the structural integrity of
the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
         In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30, VE, or V, ELEVATED
BUILDING also includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of ELEVATED
BUILDING, even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls,
if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as “existing structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary floodway map.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOOD or FLOODING).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (1)   Listed individually in the national register of historic places
(a listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
         (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of
interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
secretary of interior; or
         (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
            (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary
of the interior or;
            (b)   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which the
base flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
         (1)   Built on a single chassis;
         (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the
largest horizontal projections;
         (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Pub. Law. No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include excavation of
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before “start of
construction” of the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred
“substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
         (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
         (2)   Any alteration of an “historic structure”; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this chapter. For full requirements, see section 60.6 of the
national flood insurance program regulations.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in subsections 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, herein specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
§ 13-1-4 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The city manager or designee is hereby appointed the
floodplain administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. (national flood insurance
program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and Responsibilities. Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building site will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution
control act amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is
required.
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the Oklahoma water resources board prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with subsection
13-1-5(B) of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data
available from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the
provisions of sections
13-1-8,
13-1-9 and
13-1-10 of this chapter.
      (9)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
      (10)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. chapter 1, § 65.12 of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community’s FIRM which increases
the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1');
provided, that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision
through FEMA.
§ 13-1-5 GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS; PERMIT.
   (A)   Lands Affected by Chapter. This chapter shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the community.
   (B)   Basis for Establishing Areas of Special Flood Hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency in a
scientific and engineering report, entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for the
City of Chandler, Lincoln County, Oklahoma”, with accompanying flood insurance
rate maps and flood boundary floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM) dated July 16, 1996,
and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter.
   (C)   Development Permit Required. A development permit shall be required to
ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Compliance with Chapter. No structure or land shall hereafter be
located, altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Ord. 1996-02, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 13-1-6 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for Permit; Required Information. Application for a
development permit shall be presented to the floodplain administrator on forms
furnished by him and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate
drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed
landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the
placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation
to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is
required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all new and substantially improved structures.
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed.
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection
13-1-9(B) of this chapter.
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
13-1-4(B)(1) of this chapter.
   (B)   Basis for Approval or Denial. Approval or denial of a development
permit by the floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions
of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
§ 13-1-7 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Hearing and Judgment.
      (1)   The appeal board as established by the community shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   (C)   Issuance of Variances.
      (1)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in subsection
13-1-6(B) of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   (D)   Conditions for Granting. Upon consideration of the factors noted above
and the intent of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of this chapter as set out in subsection
13-1-2 (A) of this chapter.
   (E)   Denial of Variances. Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (F)   Historic Structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Prerequisites for Granting Variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the costs of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (H)   Requirements for Issuance. Variances may be issued by a community for
new construction and substantial improvements and for other development
necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use; provided, that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in subsections (A) through (F) of this
section are met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
§ 13-1-8 GENERAL FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All of new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
or modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwater; and
   (G)   On site wastewater disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
§ 13-1-9 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in subsections
13-1-4(B)(8),
13-1-5(B) or section
13-1-11 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to, or above, the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
subsection
13-1-6 (A) of this chapter is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential Construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to, or above,
the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade;
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured Homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on a community’s
FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize
flood damage. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over the top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites
located:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision;
         on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a
result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park, or a subdivision within zones
A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions
of this subsection be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than thirty-six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to
an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational Vehicles.
      (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-
30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of subsection
13-1-6(A) of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in subsection (D) of this section.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
§ 13-1-10 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   Compliance Required. All subdivision proposals, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall be consistent with
sections
13-1-1  and
13-1-2  of this chapter.
   (B)   Development Permit Requirements. All proposals for the development of
subdivisions, including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall meet development permit requirements of subsection
13-1-5 (C), section
13-1-6  and the provisions of sections
13-1-8  et seq., of this chapter.
   (C)   Base Flood Elevation. Base flood elevation data shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development, including the placement
of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50)
lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less, if not otherwise provided pursuant
to subsections
13-1-4 (B) and
13-1-5 (B) of this chapter.
   (D)   Drainage. All subdivision proposals, including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   Utilities. All subdivision proposals, including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
§ 13-1-11 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in subsection
13-1-5(B) of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot (1')
to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, and where
the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the
following provisions apply:
   (A)   Residential Structures. All new construction and substantial
improvements of residential structures have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least 2 feet if no
depth number is specified).
   (B)   Nonresidential Structures. All new construction and substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures have the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest
adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the
community’s FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified); or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   Certification. A registered professional engineer or architect shall
submit a certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of
this section, as proposed in subsection
13-1-6 (A)(1) of this chapter, are satisfied.
   (D)   Drainage Paths. Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
§ 13-1-12 FLOODWAYS.
   Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection
13-1-5(B) of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
   (A)   Encroachments.
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. chapter 1, § 65.12 of the
national flood insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations; provided, that the community first applies for a conditional
FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
   (B)   New Construction; Substantial Improvements. If subsection (A) of this
section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of section
13-1-8  et seq., of this chapter.
APPENDICES
      Appendix
         1.   CHANDLER TRUST AUTHORITY
         2.   CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
         3.   ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
         4.   GAS FRANCHISE
APPENDIX 1: CHANDLER TRUST AUTHORITY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Ordinance 77-6, adopted May 3, 1977, accepted the
                     beneficial interest in the trust created by a trust
77-6     5-3-1977    indenture for and on behalf of the city of Chandler in all
                     respects in accordance with the terms of the trust
                     indenture; and declaring an emergency. Ordinance 77-6 is
                     hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
                    
 
APPENDIX 2: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
Section
   
Section 1   Definition of Terms
   
Section 2   Grant of Permit
   
Section 3   Standards of Service
   
Section 4   Regulation by Permit Authority
   
Section 5   Compliance and Monitoring
   
Section 6   Insurance, Indemnification, and Bonds or Other Surety
   
Section 7   Enforcement and Termination of Permit
   
Section 8   Unauthorized Reception
   
Section 9   Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 1 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   1.1. Terms. For the purpose of this ordinance, the following terms, phrases,
words, and abbreviations shall have the meanings ascribed to them below. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number:
      AFFILIATE. An entity which owns or controls, is owned or controlled by,
or is under common ownership with grantee.
      BASIC CABLE. The tier of service regularly provided to all subscribers
that includes the retransmission of local broadcast television signals.
      CABLE ACT. Collectively means the cable communications policy act of
1984, being Pub. Law No. 98-549 and the cable television consumer protection
and competition act of 1992, as amended, being Pub. Law No. 102-385.
      CABLE SERVICE. a) The one-way transmission to subscribers of video
programming or other programming service; and b) subscriber interaction, if
any, which is required for the selection of such video programming or any other
lawful communication service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment or
other communications equipment that is designed to provide cable service and
other service to subscribers.
      FCC. Federal communications commission, or successor governmental entity
thereto.
      GRANTEE. TCI Cablevision of Oklahoma, Inc., or the lawful successor,
transferee, or assignee thereof.
      GROSS REVENUES. The monthly cable service revenues received by grantee
from subscribers of the cable system in the service area; provided however,
that such phrase shall not include: a) revenues received from any national
advertising carried on the cable system; b) any taxes on cable service which
are imposed directly or indirectly on any subscriber thereof by any
governmental unit or agency, and which are collected by the grantee on behalf
of such governmental unit or agency.
      PERMIT. The initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the
permit authority, whether such authorization is designated as a permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, or otherwise, which authorizes
construction and operation of the cable system for the purpose of offering
cable service or other service to subscribers.
      PERMIT AUTHORITY. The city of Chandler, Oklahoma or the lawful successor,
transferee, or assignee thereof.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company,
trust corporation, or governmental entity.
      PUBLIC WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle, or other public right-of-way,
including, but not limited to: public utility easements, dedicated utility
strips, or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary or
permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the
permit authority in the service area which shall entitle the permit authority
and the grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating,
repairing, and maintaining the cable system. PUBLIC WAY shall also mean any
easement now or hereafter held by the permit authority within the service area
for the purpose of public travel, or for utility or public service use
dedicated for compatible uses, and shall include other easements or rights-of-
way as shall, within their proper use and meaning, entitle the permit authority
and the grantee to the use thereof for the purposes of installing or
transmitting grantee’s cable service or other service over poles, wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments, and other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to
the cable system.
      SERVICE AREA. The present municipal boundaries of the permit authority,
and shall include any additions thereto by annexation or other legal means.
      SERVICE TIER. A category of cable service or other services provided by
grantee and for which a separate charge is made by grantee.
      SUBSCRIBER. A person or user of the cable system who lawfully receives
cable services or other service therefrom with grantee’s express permission.
      VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
§ 2 GRANT OF PERMIT.
   2.1. Grant. The city hereby grants to grantee a nonexclusive permit which
authorizes the grantee to construct and operate a cable system and offer cable
service and other services in, along, among, upon, across, above, over, under,
or in any manner connected with public ways within the service area and for
that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct,
maintain, or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across, or along any public way
and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, such poles, wires, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments, and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
   2.2. Term. The permit granted pursuant to this ordinance shall be for an
initial term of ten (10) years from the effective date of the permit as set
forth in section
2.3 , with one automatic five (5) year extension in the event grantee is in
substantial compliance with the material provisions of this ordinance, unless
otherwise lawfully terminated in accordance with the terms of this ordinance.
   2.3. Acceptance; Effective Date. Grantee shall accept the permit granted
pursuant hereto by signing this ordinance and filing same with the city clerk
or other appropriate official or agency of the permit authority within sixty
(60) days after the passage and final adoption of this ordinance. Subject to
the acceptance by grantee, this ordinance shall become effective upon passage
and final adoption.
   2.4. Favored Nations. During the term of this permit in the event the permit
authority enters into a franchise, permit, license, authorization, or other
agreement of any kind with any other person or entity other than grantee to
enter into the franchising authority’s streets and public ways for the purpose
of constructing or operating a cable system or providing cable service to any
part of the service area, the material provisions thereof shall be reasonably
comparable to those contained herein, in order that one operator not be granted
an unfair competitive advantage over another, and to provide all parties equal
protection under the law.
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
§ 3 STANDARDS OF SERVICE.
   3.1. Conditions of Street Occupancy. All transmission and distribution
structures, poles, other lines, and equipment installed or erected by the
grantee pursuant to the terms hereof shall be located so as to cause a minimum
of interference with the proper use of public ways and with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that adjoins any of
said public ways.
   3.2. Restoration of Public Ways. If during the course of grantee’s
construction, operation, or maintenance of the cable system there occurs a
disturbance of any public way by grantee, it shall, at its expense, replace and
restore such public way to a condition reasonably comparable to the condition
of the public way existing immediately prior to such disturbance.
   3.3. Relocation at Request of Permit Authority. Upon its receipt of
reasonable advance notice, not to be less than five (5) business days, the
grantee shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect,
relocate in the public way, or remove from the public way, any property of the
grantee when lawfully required by permit authority for any legitimate public
interest including, but not limited to, traffic conditions, public safety,
street abandonment, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of
street grade, installation of sewers, drains, gas or water pipes, or any other
type of structures or improvements by the permit authority; but, the grantee
shall have the right of abandonment of its property upon the permit authority’s
written consent. If public funds are provided to any company using such street,
easement, or right-of-way for the purpose of defraying the cost of any of the
foregoing, such funds shall also be made equally available to the grantee as
may be allowed by law.
   3.4. Relocation at Request of Third Party. The grantee shall, on the request
of any person holding a building moving permit issued by the permit authority,
temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of such building,
provided: a) the expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by said person, including, if required by the grantee, making such payment in
advance; and b) the grantee is given not less than ten (10) business days’
advance written notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   3.5. Trimming of Trees and Shrubbery. The grantee shall have the authority
to trim trees or other natural growth overhanging any of its cable system in
the service area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact with the
grantee’s wires, cables, or other equipment. The grantee shall reasonably
compensate the permit authority or property owner for any damages caused by
such trimming.
   3.6. Use of Grantee’s Equipment by Permit Authority. Subject to any
applicable state or federal regulations or tariffs, the permit authority shall
have the right to make additional use, for any public purpose, of any poles or
conduits controlled or maintained exclusively by or for the grantee in any
public way; provided that: a) such use by the permit authority does not
interfere with a current or future use by the grantee; b) the permit authority
holds the grantee harmless against and from all claims, demands, costs, or
liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out of such use of said
poles or conduits, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and
costs; and c) at grantee’s sole discretion, the permit authority may be
required either to pay a reasonable rental fee or otherwise reasonably
compensate grantee for the use of such poles, conduits, or equipment; provided
however, that grantee agrees that such compensation or charge shall not exceed
those paid by it to public utilities pursuant to the applicable pole attachment
agreement, or other authorization, relating to the service area. In the case of
any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon request of the permit
authority, make available its facilities for the permit authority to provide
emergency information and instructions during the emergency or disaster period.
Except to the extent expressly prohibited by law, the permit authority shall
hold grantee, its employees, officers, and assigns, harmless from any claims
arising out of the emergency use of its facilities by the permit authority,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and costs. Grantee also
agrees to provide, at no cost to permit authority, one community access channel
for the purpose of televising local events, community bulletin boards and other
uses which the city government, schools or community groups approved by the
permit authority may televise.
   3.7. Safety Requirements. Construction, installation, and maintenance of the
cable system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All such
work shall be performed in substantial accordance with applicable FCC or other
federal, state, and local regulations. The cable system shall not unreasonably
endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in the service
area.
   3.8. Aerial and Underground Construction. In those areas of the service area
where all of the transmission or distribution facilities of the respective
public utilities providing telephone communications and electric services are
underground, the grantee likewise shall construct, operate, and maintain all of
its transmission and distribution facilities underground; provided, that such
facilities are actually capable of receiving grantee’s cable and other
equipment without technical degradation of the cable system’s signal quality.
In those areas of the service area where the transmission or distribution
facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications, and electric services are both aerial and underground, grantee
shall have the sole discretion to construct, operate, and maintain all of its
transmission and distribution facilities, or any part thereof, aerially or
underground. Nothing contained in this section 3.8 shall require grantee to
construct, operate, and maintain underground any ground mounted appurtenances
such as subscriber taps, line extenders, system passive devices (splitters,
directional couplers), amplifiers, power supplies, pedestals, or other related
equipment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section
3.8, in the event that all of the transmission or distribution facilities of
the respective public utilities providing telephone communications and electric
service are placed underground after the effective date of this permit, the
grantee shall only be required to construct, operate, and maintain all of its
transmission and distribution facilities underground if it is given reasonable
notice and access to the public utilities’ facilities at the time that such are
placed underground.
   3.9. Required Extensions of Service. The cable system, as constructed as of
the date of the passage and final adoption of this ordinance, substantially
complies with the material provisions of this section. Grantee is hereby
authorized to extend the cable system as necessary, as desirable, or as
required pursuant to the terms hereof within the service area. Whenever grantee
shall receive a request for service from at least ten (10) subscribers within
one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable-bearing strand feet (one-
quarter cable mile) of its trunk or distribution cable, it shall extend its
cable system to such subscribers at no cost to said subscribers for system
extension, other than the usual connection fees for all subscribers; provided,
that such extension is technically feasible.
   3.10. Subscriber Charges for Extensions of Service. No subscriber shall be
refused service arbitrarily. However, for unusual circumstances, such as: a
subscriber’s request to locate his cable drop underground; existence of more
than one hundred fifty feet (150') of distance from distribution cable to
connection of service to subscribers; or a density of less than ten (10)
subscribers per one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable-bearing strand
feet of trunk or distribution cable, cable service or other service may be made
available on the basis of a capital contribution in aid of construction,
including cost of material, labor, and easements. For the purpose of
determining the amount of capital contribution in aid of construction to be
borne by grantee and subscribers in the area in which cable service may be
expanded, grantee will contribute an amount equal to the construction and other
costs per mile, multiplied by a fraction whose numerator equals the actual
number of residences per one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable-
bearing strand feet of its trunk or distribution cable, and whose denominator
equals ten (10) subscribers. Potential subscribers will bear the remainder of
the construction and other costs on a pro rata basis. Grantee may require that
the payment of the capital contribution in aid of construction borne by such
potential subscribers be paid in advance.
   3.11. Service to Public Buildings. The grantee shall provide without charge
one outlet of basic service to the permit authority’s office building(s), fire
station(s), police station(s), and public school building(s) that are passed by
its cable system. The outlets of basic service shall not be used to distribute
or sell cable services in or throughout such buildings; nor shall such outlets
be located in common or public areas open to the public. Users of such outlets
shall hold grantee harmless from any and all liability or claims arising out of
their use of such outlets, including, but not limited to, those arising from
copyright liability. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this
section 3.11, the grantee shall not be required to provide an outlet to such
buildings where the drop line from the feeder cable to said buildings or
premises exceeds one hundred fifty (150) cable feet, unless it is technically
feasible and so long as it will not materially adversely affect the operation,
financial condition, or market development of the cable system to do so, or
unless the appropriate governmental entity agrees to pay the incremental cost
of such drop line in excess of one hundred fifty (150) cable feet. In the event
that additional outlets of basic service are provided to such buildings, the
building owner shall pay the usual installation fees associated therewith,
including, but not limited to, labor and materials.
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
§ 4 REGULATION BY PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   4.1. Permit Fee.
   (A)   The permit authority and the grantee have agreed to increase the
amount paid as permit fees by the grantee to the permit authority from three
percent (3%) of gross revenues to five percent (5%) of gross revenues received
by the grantee from the operation of the cable system on an annual basis;
provided however, that the grantee may credit against any such payments: 1) any
tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by the permit authority or other
governmental entity on a cable operator, or subscriber, or both, solely because
of their status as such; 2) any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability
which is unduly discriminatory against cable operators or subscribers
(including any such tax, fee, or assessment imposed, both on utilities and
cable operators and their services); and 3) any other special tax, assessment,
or fee such as a business, occupation, and entertainment tax. For the purpose
of this section, the twelve (12) month period applicable under the permit for
the computation of the permit fee shall be a calendar year, unless otherwise
agreed to in writing by the permit authority and grantee.
   The permit authority agrees that all amounts paid by grantee as permit fees
may be added to the price of cable services and collected from grantee’s
subscribers as “external costs”, as such term is used in 47 C.F.R. § 76.922 of
the FCC’s rules and regulations. In addition, all amounts paid as permit fees
may be separately stated on subscriber’s bills as permitted in 47 C.F.R. §
76.985.
   The increased permit fee will be payable to the permit authority after
notice to grantee’s subscribers of the increase and the collection of the
increase in permit fees by grantee from its subscribers.
   The permit fee payment shall be due and payable ninety (90) days after the
close of the preceding calendar year. Each payment shall be accompanied by a
brief report from a representative of the grantee showing the basis for the
computation.
   (B)   Limitation on Permit Fee Actions. The period of limitation for
recovery of any permit fee payable hereunder shall be five (5) years from the
date on which payment by the grantee is due. Unless within five (5) years from
and after said payment due date the permit authority initiates a lawsuit for
recovery of such permit fees in a court of competent jurisdiction, such
recovery shall be barred and the permit authority shall be stopped from
asserting any claims whatsoever against the grantee relating to any such
alleged deficiencies.
   4.2. Rates and Charges. The permit authority may regulate the rates for the
provision of basic cable service and other services and equipment as expressly
provided by applicable law.
   4.3. Renewal of Permit. The permit authority and the grantee agree that any
proceedings undertaken by the permit authority that relate to the renewal of
the grantee’s permit shall be governed by and comply with the provisions of
section 626 of the cable act, unless the procedures and substantive protections
set forth therein shall be deemed to be preempted and superseded by the
provisions of any subsequent provision of federal or state law.
   In addition to the procedures set forth in said section 626(a), the permit
authority agrees to notify grantee of its preliminary assessments regarding the
identity of future cable related community needs and interests, as well as the
past performance of grantee under the then current permit term. The permit
authority further agrees that such a preliminary assessment when performed in
connection to the permit renewal shall be provided to the grantee prior to the
time that the four (4) month period referred to in subsection (c) of section
626 is considered to begin. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth
in this section 4.3, the grantee and permit authority agree that at any time
during the term of the then current permit, while affording the public
appropriate notice and opportunity to comment, the permit authority and grantee
may agree to undertake and finalize negotiations regarding renewal of the then
current permit, and the permit authority may grant a renewal thereof.
   4.4. Conditions of Sale. Except to the extent expressly required by federal
or state law, if a renewal or extension of grantee’s permit is denied or the
permit is lawfully terminated, and the permit authority either lawfully
acquires ownership of the cable system or by its actions lawfully effects a
transfer of ownership of the cable system to another party, any such
acquisition or transfer shall be at a price determined pursuant to the then
existing provisions set forth in the cable act.
   Grantee and permit authority agree that in the case of a lawful revocation
of the permit, at grantee’s request, which shall be made in its sole
discretion, grantee shall be given a reasonable opportunity to effectuate a
transfer of its cable system to a qualified third party. The permit authority
further agrees that during such a period of time, it shall authorize the
grantee to continue to operate pursuant to the terms of its prior permit;
however, in no event shall such authorization exceed a period of time greater
than six (6) months from the effective date of such revocation. If, at the end
of that time, grantee is unsuccessful in procuring a qualified transferee or
assignee of its cable system which is reasonably acceptable to the permit
authority, grantee and permit authority may avail themselves of any rights they
may have pursuant to federal or state law; it being further agreed that
grantee’s continued operation of its cable system during the six (6) month
period shall not be deemed to be a waiver, nor an extinguishment of, any rights
of either the permit authority or the grantee. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary set forth in this section 4.4, neither permit authority nor grantee
shall be required to violate federal or state law.
   4.5. Transfer of Permit. Grantee’s right, title, or interest in the permit
shall not be sold, transferred, assigned, or otherwise encumbered, other than
to an affiliate, without the prior consent of the permit authority, such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld. No such consent shall be required,
however, for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by other hypothecation, or by
assignment of any rights, title, or interest of the grantee in the permit or
cable system in order to secure indebtedness.
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
§ 5 COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING.
   5.1. Testing for Compliance. The permit authority may perform technical
tests of the cable system during reasonable times and in a manner which does
not unreasonably interfere with the normal business operations of the grantee
or the cable system in order to determine whether or not the grantee is in
compliance with the terms hereof and applicable state or federal laws. Except
in emergency circumstances, such tests may be undertaken only after giving
grantee reasonable notice thereof, not to be less than two (2) business days,
and providing a representative of grantee an opportunity to be present during
such tests. In the event that such testing demonstrates that the grantee has
substantially failed to comply with a material requirement hereof, the
reasonable costs of such tests shall be borne by the grantee. In the event that
such testing demonstrates that grantee has substantially complied with such
material provisions hereof, the cost of such testing shall be borne by the
permit authority. Except in emergency circumstances, the permit authority
agrees that such testing shall be undertaken no more than two (2) times a year
in the aggregate, and that the results thereof shall be made available to the
grantee upon grantee’s request.
   5.2. Books and Records. The grantee agrees that the permit authority may
review such of its books and records, during normal business hours and on a
nondisruptive basis, as is reasonably necessary to monitor compliance with the
terms hereof. Such records shall include, but shall not be limited to, any
public records required to be kept by the grantee pursuant to the rules and
regulations of the FCC. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth
herein, grantee shall not be required to disclose information which it
reasonably deems to be proprietary or confidential in nature. The permit
authority agrees to treat any information disclosed by the grantee to it as
confidential and only to disclose it to employees, representatives, and agents
thereof that have a need to know, or in order to enforce the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
§ 6 INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION, AND BONDS OR OTHER SURETY.
   6.1. Insurance Requirements. Grantee shall maintain in full force and
effect, at its own cost and expense, during the term of the permit,
comprehensive general liability insurance in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) combined single limit for bodily injury, and property damage.
Said insurance shall designate the permit authority as an additional insured.
Such insurance shall be noncancellable except upon thirty (30) days’ prior
written notice to the permit authority.
   6.2. Indemnification. The grantee agrees to indemnify, save and hold
harmless, and defend the permit authority, its officers, boards and employees,
from and against any liability for damages and for any liability or claims
resulting from property damage or bodily injury (including accidental death),
which arise out of the grantee’s construction, operation, or maintenance of its
cable system, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and
costs.
   6.3. Bonds and Other Surety. Except as expressly provided herein, grantee
shall not be required to obtain or maintain bonds or other surety as a
condition of being awarded the permit or continuing its existence. The permit
authority acknowledges that the legal, financial, and technical qualifications
of grantee appear currently sufficient to afford compliance with the terms of
the permit and the enforcement thereof. Grantee and permit authority recognize
that the costs associated with bonds and other surety may ultimately be borne
by the subscribers in the form of increased rates for cable services. In order
to minimize such costs, the permit authority agrees to require bonds and other
surety only in such amounts and during such times as there is a reasonably
demonstrated need therefor. The permit authority agrees that in no event,
unless otherwise required by law, shall it require a bond or other related
surety in an aggregate amount greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00),
conditioned upon the substantial performance of the material terms, covenants,
and conditions of the permit.
 
   “The foregoing notwithstanding, grantee shall provide and maintain at all
times during the term of this permit, a guarantee in-lieu-of bond in the amount
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), to guarantee the substantial performance by
grantee of all the material terms, covenants and conditions of this permit.
Grantee shall file such guarantee in-lieu-of bond with the city clerk within
sixty (60) days after passage and final adoption of this permit.”
 
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
§ 7 ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   7.1. Notice of Violation. In the event that the permit authority believes
that the grantee has not complied with the terms of the permit, it shall notify
grantee in writing of the exact nature of the alleged noncompliance.
   7.2. Grantee’s Right to Cure or Respond. Grantee shall have thirty (30) days
from receipt of the notice described in section 7.1: a) to respond to the
permit authority contesting the assertion of noncompliance; or b) to cure such
default; or c) in the event that, by the nature of default, such default cannot
be cured within the thirty (30) day period, initiate reasonable steps to remedy
such default and notify the permit authority of the steps being taken and the
projected date that they will be completed. The projected date shall not exceed
six (6) months, except under extraordinary circumstances occasioned through no
fault of grantee.
   7.3. Public Hearing. In the event that grantee fails to respond to the
notice described in section 7.1 pursuant to the procedures set forth in section
7.2, or in the event that the alleged default is not remedied within thirty
(30) days after the grantee is notified of the alleged default pursuant to
section 7.1, the permit authority shall schedule a public meeting to
investigate the default. Such public meeting shall be held at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the permit authority which is scheduled at a
time which is no less than five (5) business days therefrom. The permit
authority shall notify the grantee of the time and place of such meeting and
provide the grantee with an opportunity to be heard.
   7.4. Enforcement. Subject to applicable federal and state law, in the event
the permit authority, after such meeting, determines that grantee is in default
of any provision of the permit, the permit authority may:
   (A)   Foreclose on all or any part of any security provided under this
permit, if any, including without limitation, any bonds or other surety;
provided however, the foreclosure shall only be in such a manner and in such
amount as the permit authority reasonably determines is necessary to remedy the
default;
   (B)   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other equitable
relief;
   (C)   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of the
permit, declare the permit agreement to be revoked; or
   (D)   Seek specific performance of any provision, which reasonably lends
itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages.
   The grantee shall not be relieved of any of its obligations to comply
promptly with any provision of the permit by reason of any failure of the
permit authority to enforce prompt compliance.
   7.5. Acts of God. The grantee shall not be held in default or noncompliance
with the provisions of the permit, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty
relating thereto, where such noncompliance or alleged defaults are caused by
strikes, acts of God, power outages, or other events reasonably beyond its
ability to control.
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
§ 8 UNAUTHORIZED RECEPTION.
   8.1. Misdemeanor. In addition to those criminal and civil remedies provided
by state and federal law, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person, firm, or
corporation to create or make use of any unauthorized connection, whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any
part of the cable system without the express consent of the grantee. Further,
without the express consent of grantee, it shall be a misdemeanor for any
person to tamper with, remove, or injure any property, equipment, or part of
the cable system or any means of receiving cable service or other services
provided thereto. Subject to applicable federal and state law, the permit
authority shall incorporate into its criminal code, if not presently a part
thereof, criminal misdemeanor law which will enforce the intent of this section
8.1.
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
§ 9 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   9.1. Preemption. If the FCC, or any other federal or state body or agency
shall now or hereafter exercise any paramount jurisdiction over the subject
matter of the permit, then to the extent such jurisdiction shall preempt and
supersede or preclude the exercise of the like jurisdiction by the permit
authority, the jurisdiction of the permit authority shall cease and no longer
exist.
   9.2. Actions of Permit Authority. In any action by the permit authority or
representative thereof mandated or permitted under the terms hereof, such party
shall act in a reasonable, expeditious, and timely manner. Furthermore, in any
instance where approval or consent is required under the terms hereof, such
approval or consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   9.3. Notice. Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every
notice or response required by this permit to be served upon the permit
authority or grantee shall be in writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly
given to the required party five (5) business days after having been posted in
a properly sealed and correctly addressed envelope by certified or registered
mail, postage prepaid, at a post office or branch thereof regularly maintained
by the U.S. postal service.
   The notices or responses to the permit authority shall be addressed as
follows:
      City Mayor
      City of Chandler
      414 Manvel
      Chandler, Oklahoma 74834
   with a copy to:
      City Manager
      City of Chandler
      414 Manvel
      Chandler, Oklahoma 74834
   The notices or responses to the grantee shall be addressed as follows:
      Cox Communications, Inc.
      2312 N.W. 10th St.
      Oklahoma City, OK 73107
      (405) 600-2771
      
   Permit authority and the grantee may designate such other address or
addresses from time to time by giving notice to the other.
   9.4. Descriptive Headings. The captions to sections contained herein are
intended solely to facilitate the reading thereof. Such captions shall not
affect the meaning or interpretation of the text herein.
   9.5. Severability. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term, or provision
hereof is determined to be illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional, by any court
of competent jurisdiction or by any state or federal regulatory authority
having jurisdiction thereof, such determination shall have no effect on the
validity of any other section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision hereof,
all of which will remain in full force and effect for the term of the permit,
or any renewal or renewals thereof.
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 10-3-1995)
APPENDIX 3: ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
2009-06  8-11-2009      Grants to the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company an
                        electric franchise for 25 years for a 3 percent fee.
                       
 
APPENDIX 4: GAS FRANCHISE
Section
   
Section 1   Tax Levied
   
Section 2   Application of Tax; Exception
   
Section 3   Term of Tax
   
Section 4   Failure to Pay Tax
   
Section 5   Lien on Assets
   
Section 6   Gas Lines, Installation and Repair
   
Section 7   Emergency
§ 1 TAX LEVIED.
   From and after the effective date of this ordinance, there is hereby levied
and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon the gross receipts from
residential and commercial sales of gas in the city of Chandler, Oklahoma,
together with two hundred dollars ($200.00) free gas to be provided said city,
which shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation, or excise
tax levied by such city, as provided by 68 O.S. chapter 25.
(Ord. 708, passed 11-1-1960)
§ 2 APPLICATION OF TAX; EXCEPTION.
   The tax levied under section 1 of this ordinance shall, when levied, apply
to all persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing gas within the city limits of the city of Chandler, Oklahoma, except
that it shall not apply to any person, firm, association or corporation
operating under a valid franchise from said city of Chandler, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 708, passed 11-1-1960)
§ 3 TERM OF TAX.
   The tax levied under section 1 of this ordinance shall be levied for a term
of not less than one year and shall be payable monthly and placed in the
general revenue fund of said city.
(Ord. 708, passed 11-1-1960)
§ 4 FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Any person, firm, or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such city, and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm, or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and the amount of unfurnished free gas,
and all expenses of collecting same, including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 708, passed 11-1-1960)
§ 5 LIEN ON ASSETS.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within said city of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas within the city limits of said city of Chandler,
Oklahoma.
(Ord. 708, passed 11-1-1960)
§ 6 GAS LINES, INSTALLATION AND REPAIR.
   The express provisions, relating to laying of lines, servicing them, and
repairs, shall be as provided by sections 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of ordinance 631 of
the city of Chandler, Oklahoma, which is hereby referred to and made a part
hereof.
(Ord. 708, passed 11-1-1960)
§ 7 EMERGENCY.
   For the preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency is
hereby declared to exist, and this ordinance shall be in full force and effect,
immediately from and after its passage, approval and publication, as required
by law.
(Ord. 708, passed 11-1-1960)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Section Code Section
O.S. Section                  Code Section
4 O.S. 499 et seq.            6-4-13
11 O.S. 14-111                1-9-21
11 O.S. 17-102                3-1-3
11 O.S. 17-102(D)             3-1-15
11 O.S. 22-111                5-5-1
11 O.S. 27-101                1-9-1
11 O.S. 27-102                1-9-1
11 O.S. 27-123                1-9-19
11 O.S. 27-124                1-9-19
11 O.S. 41-101 et seq.        12-1-2
11 O.S. 43-101 et seq.        11-1-1
11 O.S. 49-103 et seq.        1-8-1
21 O.S.                       6-2-1
                              6-2A-3;
21 O.S. 1289.4                8-3-3;
                              8-4B-8
22 O.S. 1115.1 through 1115.5 1-9-14
37 O.S. 163.27                4-2A-4
37A O.S.                      4-2A-3;
                              4-2A-5
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.        4-2A-1
37A O.S. 1-103                4-2A-2
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.         7-1-2;
                              7-1-4
47 O.S. Article VI, Chapter 7 7-2-13
47 O.S. 7-204                 7-2-13
47 O.S. 7-503                 7-2-13
47 O.S. 7-606                 7-2-13
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.        7-1-2
47 O.S. 15-112                7-7-12
47 O.S. 1102                  7-2-17
47 O.S. 1134                  7-2-17
50 O.S. 12                    5-4-4
50 O.S. 14                    5-4-4
50 O.S. 15                    5-4-4
50 O.S. 16                    5-4-5;
                              5-4-8
50 O.S. 17                    5-4-9
60 O.S. 176                   3-1-5
60 O.S. 176(G)                3-1-5
60 O.S. 176 through 180       3-1-18
61 O.S. 1                     3-2-17
                              3-1-5;
61 O.S. 101 et seq.           3-2-21;
                              3-2-32
63 O.S. 1-1011                5-4-7
63 O.S. 1-1523                8-6-2
                              6-2B-2;
63 O.S. 2-201 et seq.         7-3-21;
                              8-4A-6
63 O.S. Chapter 70            8-4A-27
63 O.S. Chapter 71            8-4A-27
63 O.S. Chapter 72            8-4A-27
63 O.S. 4001 et seq.          8-4A-1
63 O.S. 4101 et seq.          8-4A-1
63 O.S. 4002                  8-4-1
63 O.S. 4200 et seq.          8-4A-1;
                              8-4A-18
68 O.S. Chapter 25            Appendix 4
                              3-3A-15;
68 O.S. 205                   3-3B-15;
                              3-3D-16
68 O.S. 205.2                 1-9-21
                              3-3A-11;
68 O.S. 217                   3-3B-12;
                              3-3D-6
68 O.S. 220                   3-3A-11;
                              3-3B-12
68 O.S. 227                   3-3A-14;
                              3-3B-13
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.          3-3A-2;
                              3-3D-4
68 O.S. 1401                  3-3B-2
68 O.S. 1408                  3-3B-17
68 O.S. 2601 et seq.          3-3C-1
68 O.S. 2701                  3-3D-18
68 O.S. 2701 et seq.          3-3D-6
68 O.S. 2704                  3-3D-18
68 O.S. 2906 or 5011          1-9-21
74 O.S. 85.22                 3-2-19
75 O.S. 250 et seq.           1-9-21
75 O.S. 309 to 317            1-9-4
82 O.S. 1084.2                8-1-7
                              
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2024-05  6-11-2024   1-10-1
                    
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
708      11-1-1960   Appendix 4
77-6     5-3-1977    Appendix 1
                     12-1-1 —
                     12-1-4 ;
                     12-2-1 —
                     12-2-11 ;
                     12-3-1 —
                     12-3-10 ;
                     12-4-1 ;
                     12-4-3 —
1978-10  10-3-1978   12-4-10 ;
                     12-4-12 —
                     12-4-14 ;
                     12-5-1 —
                     12-5-9 ;
                     12-6-1 —
                     12-6-3 ;
                     12-7-1 —
                     12-7-5
1979-05  6-5-1979    12-4-13
1993-01  2-2-1993    3-1-6
1993-02  6-1-1993    5-1-4
                     10-3-2 ;
1993-03  9-7-1993    10-3-4 —
                     10-3-9
                     8-4-1 —
                     8-4-9 ;
                     8-4A-1 —
                     8-4A-13 —
1994-06  11-1-1994   8-4A-27 ;
                     8-4B-1 —
                     8-4B-5 ;
                     8-4B-7 ;
                     8-4B-9 —
                     8-4B-16
1995-02  5-1-1995    8-2-3
1995-08  9-5-1995    8-3-5
1995-09  10-3-1995   Appendix 2
1995-10  12-5-1995   3-3B-1 —
                     3-3B-18
                     8-4-2 —
1995-11  12-5-1995   8-4-6 ;
                     8-4A-22 ;
                     8-4B-6
1996-02  4-9-1996    13-1-5
1996-03  4-9-1996    2-4-2
1997-08  10-7-1997   6-2A-4
                     10-2-2 ;
1997-09  10-7-1997   10-2-4 —
                     10-2-9
                     10-4-2 ;
1997-10  10-7-1997   10-4-4 —
                     10-4-9
1997-11  10-7-1997   9-1-5
1999-04  7-6-1999    8-4-6 ;
                     8-4B-1
1999-06  12-7-1999   8-5-1 —
                     8-5-10
2001-03  7-3-2001    8-4A-21
                     3-1-6 ;
2002-01  2-5-2002    3-2-1 ;
                     3-2-2 ;
                     3-2-28
                     6-4-9 ;
2002-07  10-1-2002   6-4A-1 —
                     6-4A-4
2003-05  6-3-2003    1-7B-2
2004-02  5-4-2004    1-10-1
2004-04  10-5-2004   1-4-1
2004-10  11-2-2004   10-12-1 ;
                     10-12-2
2004-12  11-2-2004   10-9-1 ;
                     10-9-2
2004-14  11-2-2004   10-8-1 ;
                     10-8-2
2004-15  12-7-2004   10-3-1 ;
                     10-3-3
2005-03  7-5-2005    10-11-12 ;
                     10-11-13
2005-05  7-5-2005    9-2-18
2005-06  7-18-2005   6-4-13
2005-04  8-1-2005    2-5-1 —
                     2-5-6
2005-08  9-6-2005    6-4-15 ;
                     6-4-16
                     5-6-1 ;
2005-11  11-7-2005   5-6-5 —
                     5-6-7
2005-12  12-5-2005   10-11-6
2006-03  8-7-2006    8-4A-5
2007-05  3-5-2007    10-11-6
                     Title 2, Chapter 1 ;
                     11-1-1 —
                     11-1-5 ;
                     11-2-1 —
                     11-2-5 ;
                     11-3-1 —
                     11-3-4 ;
                     11-4-1 —
                     11-4-6 ;
                     11-5-1 —
                     11-5-3 ;
                     11-6A-1 —
                     11-6A-3 ;
                     11-6B-1 —
                     11-6B-3 ;
                     11-7A-1 —
                     11-7A-5 ;
                     11-7B-1 —
                     11-7B-5 ;
                     11-7C-1 —
                     11-7C-4 ;
                     11-8A-1 —
2007-06  4-2-2007    11-8A-5 ;
                     11-8B-1 —
                     11-8B-5 ;
                     11-8C-1 —
                     11-8C-5 ;
                     11-9A-1 —
                     11-9A-4 ;
                     11-9B-1 —
                     11-9B-5 ;
                     11-10-1 —
                     11-10-4 ;
                     11-11-1 —
                     11-11-9 ;
                     11-12-1 —
                     11-12-8 ;
                     11-13-1 —
                     11-13-3 ;
                     11-14-1 ;
                     11-14-2 ;
                     11-15-1 ;
                     11-15-2 ;
                     11-16-1 —
                     11-16-5
2008-02  5-13-2008   1-6-1
                     1-7-6 ;
                     3-1-3 —
2008-03  5-13-2008   3-1-5 ;
                     3-1-13 —
                     3-1-18 ;
                     3-2-3
2009-02  4-14-2009   4-4-1 —
                     4-4-11
2009-03  4-14-2009   1-11-1 —
                     1-11-13
2009-06  8-11-2009   Appendix 3
2011-02  3-8-2011    6-2B-1 ;
                     8-4B-13
2011-04  7-12-2011   7-9-6
2013-01  2-12-2013   5-9-1 —
                     5-9-10
2013-04  2-12-2013   6-3B-1 —
                     6-3B-7
2015-01  1-23-2015   1-5-2
                     6-2A-3 ;
2015-03  4-14-2015   8-3-3 ;
                     8-4B-8
2015-09  9-8-2015    7-3-30
2015-10  12-8-2015   2-3-2 ;
                     2-3-3
2016-01  4-12-2016   10-4-1 ;
                     10-4-3
2016-02  4-12-2016   10-1-8
                     10-6-1 —
2016-03  4-12-2016   10-6-4 ;
                     10-6-6 ;
                     10-6-7
2016-04  4-12-2016   10-1-1 ;
                     10-1-3
2016-05  4-12-2016   10-2-1 ;
                     10-2-3
2016-06  4-12-2016   10-5-1 ;
                     10-5-2
2016-07  4-12-2016   10-7-1 ;
                     10-7-3
2016-08  12-13-2016  1-9-21
                     6-4-1 ;
2017-01  3-14-2017   6-4-3 ;
                     6-4-11 ;
                     6-4-13
2017-02  6-13-2017   3-3C-1 —
                     3-3C-5
2017-03  8-8-2017    1-9-21
                     4-2A-1 —
2018-06  9-11-2018   4-2A-5 ;
                     Title 4, Chapter 2 , Article B;
2018-05  9-20-2018   4-5-1 —
                     4-5-10
2018-07  11-13-2018  11-8B-2
2018-08  12-11-2018  3-3D-1 —
                     3-3D-18
2023-01  5-9-2023    3-1-3
2023-02  5-9-2023    3-2-28
2023-06  8-8-2023    8-6-1 —
                     8-6-4
2023-07  8-8-2023    8-6A-1 —
                     8-6A-5
2023-13  12-12-2023  1-6-1
2024-02  5-14-2024   5-5-3 —
                     5-5-10
                     12-3-11;
2024-04  10-8-2024   12-4-2 ;
                     12-4-11 ;
                     12-4-15
                    
 
 
