TOWN CODE OF
DICKSON, OKLAHOMA
Code current through:
Ord. 99, passed 8-22-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Town of Dickson, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 99, passed 8-22-2022. Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF DICKSON,
OKLAHOMA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN,
EXCEPT AS HEREAFTER PROVIDED; PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME
EFFECTIVE; PROVIDING FOR SALE AND COPIES IN THE CLERK-TREASURER'S OFFICE;
PROVIDING FOR SUPPLEMENTS OR CHANGES TO CODE; AND PROVIDING FOR AN EMERGENCY:
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF DICKSON, OKLAHOMA:
SECTION 1   TITLE.
   A code and revision of the ordinances of the Town of Dickson is hereby
adopted as the "Code of Ordinances, Town of Dickson, Oklahoma," or by any other
properly identifying designation.
SECTION 2   CODE SUPERSEDES OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive
ordinance of the town which shall supersede all other general and permanent
ordinances enacted by the board of trustees prior to April 1, 1987, except such
as by reference thereto are expressly saved from repeal or continued in force
and effect for any purpose.
SECTION 3   EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE, REPEAL.
   All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the town in effect on or before April 1, 1987, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 4   ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED.
   The repeal provided for in Section 3 hereof shall not affect any offense or
act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or
right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing
the payment of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the town or any evidence of the town's indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the town; nor shall the repeal affect the administrative
regulations or resolution of the town board of trustees not in conflict or
inconsistent with the provisions of the code; nor shall the repeal affect any
right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the town board of
trustees to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal affect any
ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
vacating, etc., any street or public way in the town; nor shall the repeal
affect any annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any
ordinance levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the town; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for local improvements and
assessing charges therefor; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the town; nor shall the
repeal affect any ordinance extending the limits of the town; nor shall the
repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been
repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance; nor
shall the repeal affect any rate, fee or charge in effect as of the effective
date of this code until such rate, fee or charge is specifically amended or
established by motion, resolution or ordinance as provided by the town board.
The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts of
ordinances, although omitted from the code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
SECTION 5   CODE NOT NEW ENACTMENT.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this code, shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
SECTION 6   ORDINANCES ADOPTED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed
or adopted on and after the effective date of this code may be passed or
adopted either:
   1. In the form of amendments to the code or ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
   2. Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code, shall be inserted and
made in the code whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or
ordinance of the town board of trustees, as provided hereinafter.
SECTION 7   SUPPLEMENTS TO CODE.
   By contract or by town personnel, a change, or supplement, to the code or
ordinances adopted by this ordinance shall be prepared and printed whenever
authorized or directed by the town board of trustees. A change to the code
shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed
by the board of trustees or adopted by initiative and referendum during the
period covered by the change and all changes made thereby in the code. The
pages of a change shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the
code and, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or
partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have
been inserted, the code will be up to date to the date to which the code is
being brought up to date. Each change shall include a new title page for the
code; and the title page shall include a notation below the title indicating
that the code contains all permanent and general ordinances and parts of
ordinances passed prior to the date to which the code is brought up to date and
still in effect. The words "as amended" and the date, may be added to the title
after the year. After every change has been prepared and printed, a number of
copies of the change equal at least to the number of copies of the code still
in existence, shall be deposited in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. The
town clerk-treasurer, if possible, shall notify each holder of a copy of the
original code about the availability of the change or supplement.
SECTION 8   SALE OF COPIES OF THE CODE.
   The town clerk-treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of
the code of ordinances to the public at a price determined from time to time by
motion or resolution of the town board of trustees.
SECTION 9   COPY OF CODE IN CLERK-TREASURER'S OFFICE.
   A copy of the current code as amended or supplemented from time to time
shall be kept on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. This copy of
the code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be
considered the official code of ordinances of the town, and may be so certified
by the town clerk-treasurer as may be required.
SECTION 10   PREPARATION OF CODE.
   The code or ordinances hereby adopted consists of Seventeen (17) Parts, all
of which have been examined, considered and approved by the town board of
trustees of the Town of Dickson and adopted by compliance with Sections 14-109
et seq. of Title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
SECTION 11   EMERGENCY.
   Reference being made to "Section 3" hereinbefore set out, whereas, it being
immediately necessary for the preservation of the peace, health and safety of
the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, and the inhabitants thereof, that the provisions
of this Ordinance and the new provisions of said Code not heretofore enacted be
put into full force and effect, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, by
reason whereof this Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage, as provided by law.
   Passed and approved this 7th day of April, 1987.
 
            /s/ Louis Neasbitt   
            Mayor
ATTEST: (Seal)
/s/ Doreen Dewberry   
Clerk-Treasurer
PART 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
USE AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE
SECTION:
1-101: How Code Designated And Cited
1-102: Rules Of Construction
1-103: Catchlines Of Sections; Citations
1-104: Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
1-105: Severability Of Parts Of Code
1-106: Amendment To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language
1-107: Altering Code
1-108: General Penalty
1-109: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-110: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of Town
1-101: HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED 1 :
   The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, Town of Dickson,
Oklahoma," and may be so cited.
 
Notes
1 1. State law reference: Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, 11 O.S.
  Sections 14-108 and 14-109.
1-102: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the following rules
are observed unless the construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the board of trustees:
   1.   "Board of trustees'* or "town board" shall mean the board of trustees
of the Town of Dickson;
   2.   "Computation of time." Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the
day on which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in
computing the time but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not
be counted;
   3.   "County" or "this county" means the County of Carter, Oklahoma;
   4.   "Gender." A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied
to other genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well;
   5.   "Joint authority." All words giving "joint authority" to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers;
   6.   "Law" includes applicable federal law, provisions of the Constitution
and statutes of the State of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the town, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder;
   7.   "Mayor" means the mayor of the town;
   8.   "Month" means a calendar month;
   9.   "Nontechnical and technical words." Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning;
   10.   "Number." A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears;
   11.   "Oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in
which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such
cases, the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm"
and "affirmed;"
   12.   "Or, and." "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the
sense requires it;
   13.   "Other officials or officers, etc." Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, i.e. "clerk-treasurer," "town
clerk- treasurer," "town attorney," "fire chief," "chief of police," etc. they
shall mean the officers, agencies or departments of the town;
   14.   "Person" shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons
and to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic
and corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears;
   15.   "Preceding, following" means next before and next after, respectively;
   16.   "Property" shall include real and personal property;
   17.   "Signature or subscription" includes a mark when a person cannot
write;
   18.   "State" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of
Oklahoma;
   19.   "Statutory references" means references to statutes of the State of
Oklahoma as they now are or as they may be amended to be;
   20.   "Street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards,
roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and
all other public ways in the town which are dedicated and open to public use;
   21.   "Tense." Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present;
   22.   "Week" means seven (7) days;
   23.   "Town" means the Town of Dickson; and
   24.   "Year" means a calendar year.
1-103: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS:
   The catchlines of sections in this code are printed in CAPITAL LETTERS and
citations included at the end of sections are intended to indicate the contents
of the section and original historical source respectively, and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles and official sources of such sections; nor as any
part of the section, nor,, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, or citations, are
amended or re-enacted.
1-104: EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   B.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
1-105: SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE:
   It is hereby declared to be the Intention of the board of trustees that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code or of any ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional,
illegal or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this code of ordinances.
1-106: AMENDMENT TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE 1 :
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code or ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: "Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees
of the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, that Section                  of the code of
ordinances of the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as
follows:' 2  (Set out new provisions in full.)
   C.   When the board of trustees desires to enact an ordinance of a general
and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which
the board desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance:
"Section              Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Dickson, Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be
made a part of the code of ordinances of the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, and the
sections of this ordinance may be re-numbered to accomplish this intention."
   D.   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the
case may be.
 
Notes
1 1. State law reference: Enactment of ordinances, 11 O.S. Sections 14-103 et
  seq.
2 1. State Law Reference: Enactment of Ordinances, 11 O.S. Sections 14-103 et
  seq.
1-107: ALTERING CODE:
   It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions
any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which
will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby. Any person
violating this section shall be punished as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
1-108: GENERAL PENALTY 1 ,  2 :
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day or
any portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in this section.
 
Notes
1 1. State law reference: 11 O.S. Section 14-111.
2 2. Cross reference: See Section 6-125 for bond and fine schedule applicable
  in municipal court.
1-109: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
1-110: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF TOWN:
   All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town outside
the corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar
as they are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into effect
in the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries
of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in
any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited
to the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include also
the outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
CHAPTER 2
CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
SECTION:
1-201: Map Of Town Designated As Official Map
1-202: Ward Boundaries
1-201: MAP OF TOWN DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP:
   The map of the Town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the Town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the Town, including all
annexations made to the Town through and including the date of November 1,
1986. (1987 Code)
1-202: WARD BOUNDARIES:
   The Town is divided into the following wards:
   A.   Ward 1: All those portions of Section 23, 24, 25 and 26, Township 4
South, Range 3 East, within the city limits as shown on the official map, and
Sections 19 and 30, Township 4 South, Range 3 East, Carter County, Oklahoma,
said ward extending from the eastern city limits of the City of Ardmore to the
centerline of Provence Road.
   B.   Ward 2: Sections 20, 21, 28 and 29, Township 4 South, Range 3 East,
Carter County, Oklahoma, that are within the city limits of the Town of Dickson
as shown by the official map from the centerline of Provence Road on the West
to the centerline of U.S. Highway 199 on the East. Also, that portion of
Section 32, Township 4 South, Range 3 East, which is located within the city
limits of the Town of Dickson as shown by the official map.
   C.   Ward 3: Those portions of Sections 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27, Township
4 South, Range 3 East, which are located within the city limits of the Town of
Dickson as shown by the official map from the centerline of U.S. Highway 199 on
the West to the Johnson County line on the East.
(Ord. 83, 6-26-2017, eff. 6-26-2017)
PART 2
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
CHAPTER 1
TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-101: General Powers
2-102: Board Of Trustees
2-103: Meetings Of The Town Board
2-104: Rules Of Order And Procedure
2-105: Trustees May Be Designated To Perform Duties !2R!
2-101: GENERAL POWERS:
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of section 12-101 of title 11 of the
Oklahoma Statutes, the Town shall have all the powers, functions, rights,
privileges, franchises and immunities granted, or which may be granted to towns
governed by the statutory Town Board of Trustees form of government. These
powers shall be exercised as provided by law applicable to towns under the
Board of Trustees form of government, or, if the manner is not prescribed, then
in such manner as the Board of Trustees may prescribe.
   B.   The powers, rights and authorities of the Town, including the
determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and exercised by the
Board of Trustees.
(1987 Code)
2-102: BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   The Board of Trustees shall consist of three (3) members who shall be
nominated at large.
   B.   The term of Office for a Trustee shall be four (4) years beginning at
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the second Monday following the general
Municipal election. The Trustee shall serve until his successor is elected and
qualified. The terms of the Trustees shall be set as follows:
      1. Three (3) Trustees at large.
   C.   The resolution of the Board of Trustees calling for a general or
special election to fill the Office of Trustee shall state the number of four
(4) year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be filled.
(Ord. 84, 6-26-2017)
2-103: MEETINGS OF THE TOWN BOARD:
   A.   The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly, on the fourth Monday of
each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and at such other times as it may
prescribe by ordinance, resolution, or otherwise, at the Town Hall. Where the
day for the meeting falls upon a day which is a legal holiday in the State, the
meeting shall be held on a day declared by the Mayor. The Mayor or any two (2)
Trustees may call special meetings. A majority of all the members of the Board
shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
day to day.
   B.   Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the Town Hall
unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor designates another place in the Town
for the holding of a special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held at any
other place within the Town designated by the Board.
(Ord. 84, 6-26-2017)
2-104: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   The Board may determine its own rules, and may compel the attendance of
absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may prescribe.
Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half (½) of all meetings of the
Board, regular and special, held within any period of four (4) consecutive
months, he shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   B.   The order of business for each meeting of the Board may be as posted on
the agenda for the meeting.
   C.   The following rules of procedure shall apply to any regular or special
meeting of the Board unless three (3) Trustees agree to waive the rule or
rules:
      1.   At the request of the Mayor or any Board member, all motions shall
be reduced to writing;
      2.   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the Board shall not
be entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the
majority;
      3.   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded and stated by
the Mayor. It is then and not until then in possession of the Board and cannot
be withdrawn but by leave of the Board;
      4.   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
         a.   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         b.   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
         c.   When the previous question has been ordered; or
         d.   While a vote is being taken.
      A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the meeting
is adjourned;
      5.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but:
         a.   To adjourn;
         b.   To lay on the table;
         c.   For the previous question;
         d.   To postpone to a day certain;
         e.   To commit;
         f.   To amend; or
         g.   To postpone indefinitely,
      which several motions shall have precedence in the order they stand
arranged;
      6.   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain;
      7.   Matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table;
the matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it need but a few and simple amendments, the Board shall
proceed to consider and amend at once;
      8.   On an amendment's being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment;
      9.   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put; and
      10.   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by the
presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated unless
under motion for reconsideration.
(1987 Code)
2-105: TRUSTEES MAY BE DESIGNATED TO PERFORM DUTIES:
   The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a
committee of its members to have supervision of various personnel and
activities of the Town, such as streets, water systems and so on, and may give
each such Trustee or committee designated an appropriate title. Each such
Trustee or committee so designated shall be subordinate to the Board.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MAYOR
SECTION:
2-201: Election and duties of the mayor.
2-201: ELECTION AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   A.   The board of trustees shall elect from among its members a mayor. The
mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first board of trustees
meeting held after trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
The mayor shall serve until his successor has been elected and qualified.
   B.   The mayor shall preside at meetings of the board and shall certify to
the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He shall
be recognized as head of the town government for all ceremonial purposes and
shall have such other powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed by law
or ordinance. The mayor shall have all the powers, rights, duties and
responsibilities of a trustee, including the right to vote on questions.
   C.   During the absence, disability or suspension of the mayor, the board
shall elect from among its members an acting mayor. When a vacancy occurs in
the office of the mayor, the board shall elect another mayor from among its
members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
State Law Reference: Election of town mayor, acting mayor, 11 O.S. Sections 12-
104, 12-105.
CHAPTER 3
TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
2-301: Town Clerk-Treasurer
2-302: Town Attorney, Appointment And Duties
2-303: Health Officer
2-304: Other Personnel, Appointments, Removals
2-305: Bonds
2-306: Salaries
2-307: Compensation Of Employees, Number And Classes Of Personnel
2-308: Salaries Of Certain Officers Not To Be Changed After Election Or
Appointment
2-309: Oaths
2-310: Elections; Officers To Continue Until Successors Are Elected And Qualify
2-311: Appointment Of Personnel In Emergencies
2-301: TOWN CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   The town clerk-treasurer is an elected official of the town, elected
for a four (4) year term.
   B.   As clerk, the town clerk-treasurer shall:
      1.   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the board;
      2.   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the board;
      3.   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be provided
by law or ordinance and have custody of the town seal;
      4.   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as required by
law or ordinance;
      5.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance or by the board; and (1987 Code)
      6.   Be also designated as the deputy municipal court clerk and have the
same powers and duties as the municipal court clerk when the municipal court
clerk is unavailable. (Ord. 69, 12-17-2007)
   C.   As treasurer, the town clerk-treasurer shall:
      1.   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him have been derived and to whom and when any monies have been
paid;
      2.   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
board may designate; and
      3.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance.
   The clerk-treasurer's books and accounts shall at all times be subject to
examination by the board.
(1987 Code)
2-302: TOWN ATTORNEY, APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES:
   The board of trustees may appoint a town attorney or may secure the services
of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when needed. The town
attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal adviser of the board, all
officers, departments and agencies of the town government in matters relating
to their official powers and duties. He shall represent the town in proceedings
in the courts. He shall perform all services incidental to his position which
may be required by law or ordinance.
(1987 Code)
2-303: HEALTH OFFICER:
   The board of trustees may appoint a town health officer. The county health
officer or any qualified personnel of the state department of health may
perform the duties and functions of a town health officer.
(1987 Code)
2-304: OTHER PERSONNEL, APPOINTMENTS, REMOVALS:
   A.   The board of trustees may appoint such other officers and employees as
it deems desirable and may determine their compensation by motion or
resolution, and may demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel in
compliance with due process and other requirements of law.
   B.   An employee or officer who, after a probationary period as set by the
town board, is laid off, suspended without pay for more than ten (10) days,
demoted or removed may appeal in writing to the town board. The appeal must be
filed with the town clerk- treasurer for transmittal to the board within ten
(10) days after receipt of the notice of the layoff, suspension, demotion or
removal. As soon as practicable thereafter, the board shall conduct a hearing
on the appeal, or give an adequate opportunity therefor, and shall report in
writing its findings and recommendations and make its final decision in writing
regarding the appellant's layoff, suspension, demotion or removal. If the board
finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal was made for any reason
other than the good of the service, it shall veto the layoff, suspension,
demotion or removal and order the reinstatement of the employee or officer. Any
proceedings of the board shall be subject to open meeting laws and applicable
exceptions provided for executive sessions. Employees or officers on
probationary status may be laid off, suspended without pay, demoted or removed
at any time without the written statement, hearings and procedures required in
this section.
(1987 Code)
2-305: BONDS 1
:
   The town clerk-treasurer and any other officers and employees which the town
board may designate by ordinance or otherwise, shall give bond for the faithful
performance of duties in such amount and form as the board shall prescribe. The
town shall pay the premiums on such bonds. The town may require the officer to
secure the bond within ten (10) days after his election or appointment.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 8-105.
2-306: SALARIES 1
:
   A.   The compensation of all elective town officers, including the
following, shall be fixed by ordinance:
      1.   Mayor;
      2.   Each trustee; and
      3.   Town clerk-treasurer.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 12-113.
2-307: COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES, NUMBER AND CLASSES OF PERSONNEL:
   A.   The compensation of all other officers and employees excepting those
whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be determined
by motion or resolution adopted by the board of trustees, and may be changed at
any time in the same manner.
   B.   Except as the law provides otherwise, the board of trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees.
(1987 Code)
2-308: SALARIES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS NOT TO BE CHANGED AFTER ELECTION OR
APPOINTMENT:
   In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any town officer elected or
appointed for a definite term, be changed after his election or appointment or
during his term of office unless by operation of an ordinance passed prior to
such election or appointment, such being prohibited by the Oklahoma
constitution, article 23, section 10. This provision shall not apply to
officers chosen for indefinite terms nor to employees.
(1987 Code)
2-309: OATHS:
   A.   All officers of the town, but not employees, are required to take the
oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the state constitution before they
enter upon their duties.
   B.   Both officers and employees are currently required to take and
subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by state law.
(1987 Code)
2-310: ELECTIONS; OFFICERS TO CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND
QUALIFY:
   A.   Officers of the town of Dickson shall be elected, and initiative and
referendum questions shall be decided only through elections conducted by the
Carter County election board pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes 16-101 et seq.
(Ord. 31, 3-18-1993)
   B.   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term, shall
continue to serve thereafter until his successor is elected or appointed and
qualifies, unless his services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office, or other legal
manner.
(1987 Code)
2-311: APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL IN EMERGENCIES:
   The mayor may, in an emergency situation, appoint such other officers and
employees as he may deem necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the town during the existence of the emergency, subject to the
approval of the board of trustees as soon as a special meeting or regular
meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor. The board of trustees may
determine the compensation of such emergency employees by motion or resolution
and may direct the demotion, layoff or removal of such personnel at the
conclusion of such emergency. For the purposes of this section, the term
"emergency" shall be defined to mean an unexpected or unforeseen contingency or
catastrophic event affecting the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of
the town.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4   
FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND
SECTION:
2-401: Contributions to fund.
2-401: CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND.
   A.   The clerk-treasurer shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each
paid member of the fire department the appropriate amounts of money as
established and required by state law as contribution to the firefighters
pension fund. However, if the members of the fire department, by a majority
vote of its paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the
amounts authorized by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The clerk-treasurer of the town shall deposit
monthly with the Oklahoma Firefighters' Pension and Retirement Board the
amounts deducted pursuant to this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the
salary or wages of a fire department member shall be made at the time of each
payroll. The deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member
may be able to ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing.
   B.   The town clerk-treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
Firefighters' Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money as established
and required by state law for each paid member of the fire department.
   C.   For each volunteer member of the fire department, the town
clerktreasurer shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma Firefighters' Pension and
Retirement Board the amounts of money as established and required by state law.
These amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set
by the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board.
   D.   All assets of the town firefighters pension and retirement fund shall
be transferred to the Oklahoma Firefighters' Pension and Retirement Board.
Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such
other specific assets as permitted by the State Board.
State Law Reference: Firefighters' pension law, 11 O.S. Section 49-122.
Cross Reference: Fire department and services, Section 13-101 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
TOWN RECORDS
SECTION:
2-501: Title.
2-502: Purpose.
2-503: Definitions.
2-504: Public records.
2-505: Fees.
2-506: Record Custodians.
2-507: Confidential personnel records.
Ed. Note: Resolution 1986-14 sets out fees for records and reproduction.
2-501: TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Harrah Public Records Act".
2-502: PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish reasonable fees and charges
for the provision of access to or copies of open public records in the
possession of the town, to avoid the necessity of using general public funds,
of the town, to subsidize special services and benefits to a record requester.
2-503: DEFINITIONS.
   As used herein, the terms record, public body, public office, public
official, and law enforcement agency, shall carry the same meaning as those
terms or words are defined in the state statutes of the state.
2-504: PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All records of the town shall be open to any person for inspection, copying,
or mechanical reproduction during regular business hours, subject to the
following limitations: This chapter does not apply to records specifically
required by law to be kept confidential, including:
   1.   Records not discoverable under state law;
   2.   Records protected by a state evidentiary privilege such as the identity
of informer privileges; or
   3.   Records of what transpired during meetings of the board of trustees of
the town during executive sessions authorized under the state's open meetings
act.
2-505: FEES.
   A.   A reasonable fee for the recovery of the cost of document copying or
mechanical reproduction shall be charged. In those instances where the request
is made solely for commercial purposes or clearly would cause excessive
disruption of essential functions of any department, a fee shall also be
assessed to recover the direct cost of document search. A schedule of the fees
shall be as set by the town board for the document copying and document search
per copy for law enforcement records and for other municipal records. Such fees
shall be payable to the town clerk-treasurer for receipt into the general fund.
The fees schedule shall be posted with the town clerktreasurer of the town and
with the county clerk of the county.
   B.   In no case shall a search fee be charged when the release of the
documents is made to the news media, scholars, authors and tax payers seeking
to determine whether those entrusted with the affairs of the town are honestly,
faithfully, and competently performing their duties.
   C.   Any person, firm or entity who attempts to avoid the fees established
by this chapter for copying, reproduction or search, by falsely claiming to be
exempt, as set out above, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
2-506: RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   A.   The following town officers are hereby designated as official
custodians for the records of the town:
      1.   Town clerk-treasurer;
      2.   Purchasing officer; and
      3.   Fire chief.
   B.   Each of the official custodians appointed herein are hereby authorized
to designate any subordinate officers or employees to serve as record
custodians of their office or department.
   C.   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a public
record in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, shall address their
request to the custodian charged with the responsibility for the maintenance of
the records sought to be inspected or copied.
   D.   Whenever any town officer, employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this section is presented with a request for access, to, or a
copy of, a public record, which record the custodian does not have in his or
her possession and for which he or she has not been given the responsibility to
keep and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the
record.
2-507: CONFIDENTIAL PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   The following personnel records of the town employees are considered
confidential and are not subject to public inspection:
   1.   Those personnel records which relate to internal personnel
investigations, including examination and selection material for employment,
hiring, appointment, promotion, demotion, discipline, or resignation; or
   2.   Such personnel records which if disclosed would constitute a clearly
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, such as employee evaluations, payroll
deductions, or employment applications submitted by persons not hired by the
town.
CHAPTER 6
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
2-601: Prohibited In Municipal Building
2-602: Nonsmoking Areas Designated; Signage !2R!
2-601: PROHIBITED IN MUNICIPAL BUILDING:
   A.   No person shall smoke in the Dickson municipal building, or at any
meeting of any public body created and acting under authority of the Dickson
board of trustees.
   B.   The Dickson municipal building shall be designated as a "nonsmoking"
area, said classification to include all of the Dickson town hall.
(Ord. 36, 7-15-1993)
2-602: NONSMOKING AREAS DESIGNATED; SIGNAGE:
   Nonsmoking areas shall be designated by the mayor and clerk of Dickson,
Oklahoma, in the Dickson town hall building, by posting of appropriate signs as
provided herein. The mayor and clerk shall post signs which clearly state that
smoking in the Dickson municipal building is prohibited, pursuant to state
statutes, and this chapter, and further, all employees of the town of Dickson,
Oklahoma, in addition to the board of trustees members, shall request smokers
to refrain from smoking in the Dickson town hall upon request of a patron or
citizen, or employee, who suffers discomfort from the smoke, or who has
hypersensitivity to smoke.
(Ord. 36, 7-15-1993)
PART 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES CONTROL 1
SECTION:
Article I
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act
3-101: Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act Adopted
3-102: Definitions And Interpretations
3-103 through 3-106:    Reserved For Future Use
Article II
Alcoholic Or Intoxicating Beverages
3-107: Municipal Occupation Tax; License; Reporting
3-108: Retail Package Stores; Location; Hours; Offenses
3-109 through 3-114:    Reserved For Future Use
Article III
Non-Intoxicating Beverages
3-115: Definitions
3-116: License
3-117: Retail Dealers In Non-Intoxicating Beverages
3-118: Hours Of Sale
3-119 through 3-121: Reserved For Future Use
Article IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
3-122: Clubs; Application For Certificates Of Compliance
3-123: Minors
3-124 through 3-129: Reserved For Future Use
Article V
Penalty
3-130: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. Original chapter repealed and replaced by Ord. 96, 10-26-2020.
ARTICLE I
OKLAHOMA ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT
3-101: OKLAHOMA ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT ADOPTED:
   The Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37A Okla. St. § 1-101 et seq.,
as amended) is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in this Code of
Ordinances for the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma; applicable provisions of the Act
are hereby declared to be in full force, as if included herein in complete
detail.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
3-102: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
   All words, phrases and terms used in this and other chapters relating to the
use of alcoholic beverages, and not defined herein, shall be interpreted and
construed in conformity with the definitions of the same as set forth in the
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37A Okla. St. 2003, § 1-103, as
amended).
ABLE COMMISSION:                        The Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
                                        Commission.
                                        Means and includes hydrated oxide of
                                        ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol or
                                        spirits of wine, from whatever source
                                        or by whatever process produced. It
ALCOHOL:                                does not include wood alcohol or
                                        alcohol which has been denatured or
                                        produced as denatured in accordance
                                        with acts of Congress and regulations
                                        promulgated thereunder.
                                        Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine and
                                        also includes every liquid or solids
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE:                     patented or not, containing alcohol,
                                        spirits, wine or beer and capable of
                                        being consumed as a beverage by human
                                        beings.
                                        Any individual, legal or commercial
                                        business entity, or any individual
                                        involved in any legal or commercial
                                        business entity allowed to hold any
                                        license issued in accordance with the
                                        Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
                                        Act.BEER: Any beverage of alcohol by
                                        volume and obtained by the alcoholic
APPLICANT:                              fermentation of an infusion or
                                        decoction of barley, or other grain,
                                        malt or similar products. It may or may
                                        not contain hops or other vegetable
                                        products. It includes, among other
                                        things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer,
                                        porter and other malt or brewed
                                        liquors, but does not include sake,
                                        known as Japanese rice wine.
                                        Means and includes any person licensed
                                        to distribute beer for retail sale in
BEER DISTRIBUTOR:                       the state, but does not include a
                                        holder of a small brewer self-
                                        distribution license or brewpub self-
                                        distribution license.
                                        Means and includes any person who
                                        manufactures for human consumption by
BREWER:                                 the use of raw materials or other
                                        ingredients any beer upon which a
                                        license fee and a tax are imposed by
                                        any law of the State of Oklahoma.
                                        A licensed establishment operated on
                                        the premises of, or on premises located
BREWPUB:                                contiguous to, a small brewer, that
                                        prepares and serves food and beverages,
                                        including alcoholic beverages, for on-
                                        premises consumption.
                                        Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the
                                        alcoholic fermentation of fruit juice,
                                        including, but not limited to flavored
CIDER:                                  sparkling or carbonated cider. For the
                                        purposes of the distribution of this
                                        product, cider may be distributed by
                                        either wine and spirits wholesalers or
                                        beer distributors.
                                        Any person who produces spirits from
                                        any source or substance, or any person
                                        who brews or makes mash, wort or wash,
                                        fit for distillation or for the
                                        production of spirits (except a person
                                        making or using such material in the
                                        authorized production of wine or beer,
                                        or the production of vinegar by
                                        fermentation), or any person who by any
                                        process separates alcoholic spirits
                                        from any fermented substance, or any
DISTILLER:                              person who, making or keeping mash,
                                        wort or wash, has also in his or her
                                        possession or use a still.MIXED
                                        BEVERAGES: One (1) or more servings of
                                        a beverage composed in whole or part of
                                        an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or
                                        unsealed container of any legal size
                                        for consumption on the premises where
                                        served or sold by the holder of a mixed
                                        beverage, beer and wine, caterer,
                                        public event, charitable event or
                                        special event license.
                                        Any person who rectifies, purifies or
                                        refines spirits or wines by any process
                                        (other than by original and continuous
                                        distillation, or original and
                                        continuous processing, from mash, wort,
                                        wash or other substance, through
                                        continuous closed vessels and pipes,
                                        until the production thereof is
                                        complete), and any person who, without
RECTIFIER:                              rectifying, purifying or refining
                                        spirits, shall by mixing (except for
                                        immediate consumption on the premises
                                        where mixed) such spirits, wine or
                                        other liquor with any material,
                                        manufactures any spurious, imitation or
                                        compound liquors for sale, under the
                                        name of whiskey, brandy, rum, gin,
                                        wine, spirits, cordials or any other
                                        name.
                                        A package store, grocery store,
                                        convenience store or drug store
RETAILER:                               licensed to sell alcoholic beverages
                                        for off- premises consumption pursuant
                                        to a retail spirits license, retail
                                        wine license or retail beer license.
                                        A brewer who manufactures less than
SMALL BREWER:                           sixty-five thousand (65,000) barrels of
                                        beer annually pursuant to a validly
                                        issued small brewer license hereunder.
                                        Any beverage other than wine or beer,
                                        which contains more than one-half of
                                        one percent ( of 1%) alcohol measured
                                        by volume, and obtained by
                                        distillation, whether or not mixed with
                                        other substances in solution and
SPIRITS:                                includes those products known as
                                        whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, vodka,
                                        liqueurs, cordials and fortified wines
                                        and similar compounds, but shall not
                                        include any alcohol liquid completely
                                        denatured in accordance with the Acts
                                        of Congress and regulations pursuant
                                        thereto.
                                        Means and includes any beverage
                                        containing more than one-half of one
                                        percent ( of 1 %) alcohol by volume and
                                        not more than twenty-four percent (24%)
                                        alcohol by volume at sixty (60) degrees
WINE:                                   Fahrenheit obtained by the fermentation
                                        of the natural contents of fruits,
                                        vegetables, honey, milk or other
                                        products containing sugar, whether or
                                        not other ingredients are added, and
                                        includes vermouth and sake, known as
                                        Japanese rice wine.
                                        Means and includes any sole
WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALER or WINE AND proprietorship or partnership licensed
SPIRITS DISTRIBUTOR:                    to distribute wine and spirits in the
                                        State of Oklahoma.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
Sections 3-103 through 3-106:    Reserved For Future Use.
ARTICLE II
ALCOHOLIC OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
3-107: MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAX; LICENSE; REPORTING:
   A.   1.   No person shall operate or maintain a brewery or brewpub without
having previously paid the occupational tax as provided in this chapter.
      2.   No person shall operate or maintain any business serving mixed
beverages or beer or wine without having previously paid the occupational tax
as provided in this chapter.
      3.   No person shall operate, manage, or work in any retail establishment
that sells, for off-premises consumption only, any type of alcoholic beverage
without having previously paid the occupational tax as provided in this
chapter.
   B.   1.   An annual municipal occupation tax to the sale of alcoholic
beverages as set forth in the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, is
hereby levied on persons engaging in the following businesses within the Town
of Dickson, Oklahoma, as follows:
Brewer, per year                                                  $1,250.00
Small brewer, per year                                            $125.00
Brewpub, per year                                                 $1,000.00
Brewpub, if licensee also holds a Mixed Beverage or Wine and Beer $50.00
Permit, per year
Distiller, per year                                               $3,125.00
Retail spirits store                                              $900.00
Mixed beverages, first year                                       $1,005.00
Mixed beverages, renewal per year                                 $905.00
On-premises beer or wine, first year                              $500.00
On-premises beer or wine, renewal, per year                       $450.00
Mixed beverages/caterer combination                               $1,250.00
Mixed beverages, caterer combination, renewal, per year           $1,250.00
Caterer, first year                                               $1,005.00
Caterer, renewal                                                  $905.00
Rectifier, per year                                               $3,125.00
Winemaker, per year                                               $625.00
Small wine maker, per year                                        $75.00
Wine and spirits wholesaler, per year                             $3,000.00
Beer distributor, per year                                        $750.00
Retail spirits, per year                                          $905.00
Retail beer, per year                                             $500.00
Retail wine, per year                                             $1,000.00
 
      2.   If a brewer or a Class B wholesaler also holds a license from the
state to manufacture or wholesale any non-intoxicating malt beverage, the
municipal occupation tax for such brewer or Class B wholesaler shall be reduced
by seventy-five percent (75%).
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the
businesses listed above without having paid the municipal occupation tax levied
by this chapter and obtaining a valid license from the town clerk. If the
applicant holds a valid state license to engage in said business within the
Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, is operating in compliance with municipal
ordinances, and has paid the required municipal occupation tax, the town clerk
shall issue the license applied for.
      4.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall expire on June 30
of the year for which issued.
      The cost of any type license shall be a pro rata part of the cost of said
yearly license, computed on a monthly basis. Licenses issued on or before the
15th day of any month shall be charged for based on the 1st day of said month.
Licenses issued after the 15th day of any month shall be charged for on the
basis of the 1st day of the next month.
      5.   The town clerk shall transmit a report to the ABLE Commission on
June 30 of each year, showing the amount of money collected and the number of
municipal occupation tax licenses issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
3-108: RETAIL PACKAGE STORES; LOCATION; HOURS; OFFENSES:
   A.   Location: The location of a retail package store is specifically
prohibited within three hundred (300) feet of a public school, or any church
property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities; provided, that, if any such church or school shall be established
within three hundred (300) feet of any licensed retail premises after such
premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such
license so long as it has been in continuous force and effect. The distance
indicated in this section shall be measured from the nearest property line of
such church or school to the nearest public entrance door of the premises of
such package store, along the street right-of-way line providing the nearest
direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such points. A license
shall not be issued for any location on the same block where a school or church
is located.
   B.   Separate Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or
maintain, or to assist in the operation or maintenance of, any retail package
store when the premises are not separated from the premises on which any other
goods, wares or merchandise are sold or services are rendered, by non-
transparent walls (which may be broken by a passageway to which the public is
not admitted). It shall be unlawful for any person to take any alcoholic
beverage from such store through said passageway to which the public is not
admitted, for the purpose of selling, re-selling or delivering in connection
with the sale of, said alcoholic beverage.
   C.   Hours Of Operation: It shall be unlawful for any person holding a
license for a retail package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to keep
the premises of the retail package store open for the purpose of selling, or to
sell, any alcoholic beverages at any hour other than between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M, Monday through Saturday; or
to keep such premises open for such purposes on the day of any general,
primary, runoff primary or special election; or on New Year's Day, Memorial
Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day or
Christmas Day.
   D.   Conditions Of Sale: Retail package stores may sell alcoholic beverages:
(a) only in retail containers in the original package for consumption off the
premises; and (b) only at ordinary room temperature.
   E.   Offenses: It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a
retail package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to:
      1.   Knowingly sell, deliver or furnish any alcoholic beverages to any
person under twenty-one (21) years of age, an intoxicated person or any person
who has been legally adjudged insane or mentally deficient;
      2.   Employ any person under twenty-one (21) years of age in the selling
or handling of alcoholic beverages;
      3.   Permit any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to enter,
remain within or loiter about a licensed premise; or
      4.   Permit any person to open a retail container or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
Sections 3-109 through 3-114: Reserved For Future Use.
ARTICLE III
NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
3-115: DEFINITIONS:
 
               As used in this article, means any person, firm, corporation,
               association or concessionaire who sells, distributes or
RETAIL DEALER: dispenses, at retail, any non-intoxicating beverage within the
               corporate limits of the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, without
               regard as to any place where such beverages may be consumed or
               used.
 
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
3-116: LICENSE:
   A.   There is hereby levied upon each retail dealer of non-intoxicating
beverages for consumption on and off the premises, an annual municipal license
fee of twenty dollars ($20.00); an annual municipal license fee of ten dollars
($10.00) is hereby levied for sale of non-intoxicating beverages or consumption
either on or off the premises only.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or
temporary, to sell, distribute or dispense any non-intoxicating beverages
without having first received a municipal license, as herein required.
   C.   No municipal license shall be issued to any retail dealer by the town
clerk, until the applicant has obtained all required state and county permits,
and has, in all other respects, complied with the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act. All such licenses shall expire on June 30 of the year following
re-issuance. License fees shall be paid to the town clerk and no license shall
be transferable.
   D.   The town board of trustees shall have the power, after public hearing,
to revoke any license granted hereunder, for violation of law or ordinance by
the license holder.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
3-117: RETAIL DEALERS IN NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or
maintaining a place of business where non-intoxicating beverages are sold for
consumption on the premises, or for any person in charge thereof, to:
   A.   Sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for, or otherwise dispense to,
any person under twenty-one (21) years of age, any non-intoxicating beverage;
   B.   Permit any person under twenty-one (21) years of age, to loiter or
remain in or around such place of business, except where such business is an
eating place where the service of such beverages is incidental to the main
business of serving food;
   C.   Employ any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to work in such a
place, except where said place is an eating place where the service of such
beverages is incidental to the main business of serving food;
   D.   Sell, deliver or knowingly furnish non-intoxicating beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been legally adjudged insane or
mentally deficient;
   E.   Permit therein gambling, betting or operation of a lottery;
   F.   Permit the sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating liquor;
   G.   Permit disorderly conduct, loud or disturbing language or any other
violation of state law or the code of ordinances of the Town of Dickson,
Oklahoma; or
   H.   Permit an intoxicated person to remain in or around a place of business
where non-intoxicating beverages are dispensed.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
3-118: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for non-intoxicating beverages (as
herein defined) to be sold, given away or otherwise dispensed for consumption
on the premises, between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the following Monday.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for non-intoxicating beverages (as
herein defined) to be sold, given away or otherwise dispensed for consumption
on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. on any other day.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the legal owner or
salaried employee(s) to remain on the premises of a place of business where
non-intoxicating beverages are dispensed for consumption on the premises,
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on
any day or when the premises are legally closed.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
3-119 through 3-121: Reserved For Future Use.
ARTICLE IV
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
3-122: CLUBS; APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Every applicant for certificates of compliance with the zoning, fire,
health and safety codes of the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, required by Title 37A
of Oklahoma Statutes, shall apply at the office of the town clerk by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      2.   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00) at the time of filing.
   B.   Upon receipt of completed applications for certificates of compliance,
the town clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for club operations comply with the provisions of the zoning
ordinance, other applicable development regulations and any health, fire,
building and other safety codes applicable to it.
   C.   The above certificates of zoning and code compliance shall be signed by
the town clerk or a designated representative of the town clerk.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
3-123: MINORS:
   It shall be an offense for any person to sell, barter, trade, give or
otherwise transfer possession of any non-intoxicating or alcoholic beverage to
any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
3-124 through 3-129: Reserved For Future Use.
ARTICLE V
PENALTY
3-130: PENALTY:
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this chapter an act
is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense, or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful the violation of any provision of this code
or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
the limits established in Section 8-40, Article 3, Chapter 8 of this Code of
Ordinances. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this
code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
CHAPTER 2
NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES
(Rep. by Ord. 96, 10-26-2020)
PART 4
ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
Article A. General Provisions
4-101: Definitions
4-102: Animals Not To Be At Large
4-103: Turning Out Animals At Large Unlawful
4-104: Pasturing In Public Areas Illegal
4-105: Animals Which Disturb Prohibited
4-106: Buildings For Animals; Location
4-107: Manure
4-108: Requirement Of Cleanliness Of Buildings
4-109: Animal Control Officer Or Police Officer To Inspect
Article B. Dog And Cat Vaccination And Health
4-120: Dogs And Cats To Be Vaccinated
4-121: Vicious Dog May Be Killed
4-122: Dogs Muzzled And Cats Confined
4-123: Rabies Control And Procedures
Article C. Animal Shelter
4-130: Animal Shelter Established
4-131: Animals To Be Impounded, Entry On Property
4-132: Impoundment, Description, Notice, Disposition
4-133: Breaking Or Entering Pound
4-134: Fees For Impounding
4-135: Reclamation Of Impounded Animals
4-136: Disposition And Sale Of Impounded Animals
Article D. Cruelty To Animals
4-140: Animal Cruelty Prohibited
4-141: Poisoning Animals
4-142: Encouraging Animals To Fight
Article E. Kennels
4-150: Kennels, Licensing
Article F. Penalties
4-160: Penalty
ARTICLE A.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
4-101: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat, rabbit,
chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
AT LARGE:
   A.   Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of, or occupied by, the owner; or
   B.    Not under the control of the owner, a member of his immediate family
over twelve (12) years of age or an agent of the owner, by leash, whether on
the owner's premises or not.
OWNER: Any person, firm or entity owning, harboring or keeping an animal. The
occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains, or to
which it customarily returns for a period of ten (10) days or more, shall be
deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any person or other
animal without provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls at and acts as
if it intends to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons, when not unduly
provoked.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-102: ANIMALS NOT TO BE AT LARGE:
   No owner shall permit any animal, including fowl, owned, harbored or kept by
him to be at large within the town. It is unlawful for any animal as provided
in this section to be at large at any time within the town of Dickson.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-103: TURNING OUT ANIMALS AT LARGE UNLAWFUL:
   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by this chapter so as to turn the animal at large, or in
any manner to turn the animal out to enable it to be at large.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-104: PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS ILLEGAL:
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, town or other,
on any railroad right of way, or on any property without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-105: ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB PROHIBITED:
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the town of Dickson
any dog or other animal who by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the
peace and quiet of any person. The keeping of such an animal is hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-106: BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS; LOCATION:
   A.   Every building wherein any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, goat, sheep
or animal raised for furbearing purposes that is kept within the town of
Dickson, shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it can
be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   B.   Every such building, if located within two hundred feet (200') of any
apartment house, hotel, motel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store,
building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes or residence
other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which
such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and flytight
receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations of manure.
Such receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to
prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all
times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No
manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in such
receptacle.
   C.   No building, place or establishment wherein animals are kept, shall be
maintained closer than forty feet (40') from any apartment house, hotel, motel,
restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational,
religious or hospital purposes or residence other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal is kept.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-107: MANURE:
   Manure shall be hauled outside the town of Dickson in a manner which does
not jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread evenly upon the
ground and turned under at once or as soon as the weather permits.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-108: REQUIREMENT OF CLEANLINESS OF BUILDINGS:
   Every place or building wherein an animal is kept or permitted to be kept
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times, devoid of
rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-109: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER OR POLICE OFFICER TO INSPECT:
   A health or animal control officer or peace officer, upon complaint of any
person, shall inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept, and may
do so on his own initiative after notification of his intent to do so to the
chairman of the board of trustees or a member of the board of trustees of the
town of Dickson in the chairman's absence. He may issue any such reasonable
order as he may deem necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal
to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a
nuisance. He may make a complaint before the Dickson municipal judge against
any person for violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such
reasonable order, but this procedure shall not be construed to abridge the
right of others to make such complaints.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
ARTICLE B.
DOG AND CAT VACCINATION AND HEALTH
4-120: DOGS AND CATS TO BE VACCINATED:
   The owner or keeper of any dog or cat of six (6) months of age or older
within the town limits of Dickson shall have the dog or cat vaccinated against
rabies by a licensed veterinarian every calendar year, before May 1 thereof.
Owners shall affix, or have affixed, to the collar or harness of each
vaccinated dog or cat a metal disc with sufficient information thereon that the
vaccination certificate covering the animal may be readily traced.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-121: VICIOUS DOG MAY BE KILLED:
   Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without undue provocation, bites him or the other, or attacks, or attempts
to bite or attack him or the other in such manner that an ordinarily prudent
person would be led to believe that the person toward whom the efforts of the
dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise physically harmed.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-122: DOGS MUZZLED AND CATS CONFINED:
   A.   When a health officer or peace officer determines and certifies that a
dog, cat or other animal in the town or within five (5) miles of the town of
Dickson is or was infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens
the town, the board of trustees of Dickson, by resolution, may order all dogs
to be muzzled when at large within the town of Dickson, and if deemed
desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of time to be determined by
the board of trustees. Such resolution or an adequate notice of its passage
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the town and
shall go into effect on the date following such publication unless the
resolution prescribes a later time.
   B.   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit an unmuzzled dog or cat to be at large in violation of such resolution,
or for any such dog or cat to be at large in violation thereof.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-123: RABIES CONTROL AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Every animal that bites or scratches a person shall be reported within
four (4) hours from the time of the incident to a peace officer, a member of
the board of trustees of Dickson, or an animal control officer, and said animal
shall thereupon be securely quarantined at an approved animal control shelter
or veterinary clinic within Carter County, Oklahoma, at the owner's expense,
for a period of ten (10) days. The animal shall not be released from quarantine
except by permission and approval of a licensed veterinarian or an animal
control officer familiar with the incident, along with at least one member of
the board of trustees. Failure of the owner to promptly quarantine the affected
animal shall cause said owner to be deemed guilty of an offense.
   B.   In the case of stray animals, or in the case of animals whose ownership
is not known, such quarantine shall be at an animal shelter or veterinary
facility, at the town's expense.
   C.   The owner, upon demand by an employee empowered to enforce this
chapter, shall forthwith surrender any animal that has bitten or scratched a
human being, or which if suspected of having been exposed to rabies, for
supervised quarantine, the expense for which shall be borne by the owner and
the animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies.
   D.   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under such
observation, the animal control officer or veterinarian shall immediately send
the head of such animal to the state health department for pathological
examination, and shall notify the proper public health officer of reports of
human contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   E.   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, a health
officer for the town may recommend a townside quarantine for a period of up to
six (6) months, and upon the invoking of such quarantine, no animal shall be
taken into the streets or town proper of Dickson during such period of
quarantine. During such quarantine period, no animal shall be taken or shipped
from the town of Dickson without written permission of quarantine invoking
health officer for the town.
   F.   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein designated, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be treated for such
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian or held under six (6) months
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
   G.   In event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring during
the period of the quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended for an
additional six (6) month period.
   H.   While in quarantine, no person shall kill or cause to be killed any
rabid animal, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any
animal biting or scratching a human being, except as herein provided, nor to
remove same from the town limits of Dickson without written permission from the
health officer of the town or an animal control officer, or a member of the
board of trustees.
   I.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall upon demand be
surrendered to the animal control officer, or a demanding peace officer.
   J.   The animal control officer or veterinarian shall direct the disposition
of any animal found to be infected with rabies.
   K.   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
as required herein when demand is made therefor by an employee empowered to
enforce this chapter. Such refusal shall be deemed to be an offense.
   L.   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other practitioner
to report to the animal control officer of Dickson, or the board of trustees of
said municipality, the names and addresses of persons treated for bites
inflicted by animals, together with such other information as will be helpful
in rabies control.
   M.   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the Dickson
animal control officer, a peace officer, and/or a member of the board of
trustees of Dickson, his diagnosis of any animal observed by him to be a rabid
suspect from the Dickson town limits and a surrounding area of five (5) miles.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
ARTICLE C.
ANIMAL SHELTER
4-130: ANIMAL SHELTER ESTABLISHED:
   The town of Dickson may establish an animal shelter when fiscally practical.
The board of trustees of Dickson may further contract with another governmental
agency for the use of an animal shelter.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-131: ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED, ENTRY ON PROPERTY:
   The animal control officer, a peace officer, or such other officer or
employee of the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, as the board of trustees may
authorize shall take into custody and impound any animal found at large or in
violation of any provisions of the ordinances of the town. In taking an animal
into custody under authority of this article, the animal control officer or
other officer or employee of the town may enter into private property to gain
custody of the animal.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-132: IMPOUNDMENT, DESCRIPTION, NOTICE, DISPOSITION:
   A.   The animal control officer or authorized peace officer or employee of
the town of Dickson shall leave with the town clerk a complete registry of the
animal taken to an approved animal shelter. Information posted shall include
the species, breed, color, sex, license number if available, date of
impoundment, and name, address and phone number of the owner if known.
   B.   Not later than forty eight (48) hours after impounding the animal, the
town clerk shall call the owner, if known, or mail notice at the address shown
on town records, if any, to notify them of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   All impounded animals, unless a rabies suspect, shall be maintained for
at least seventy two (72) hours at an approved shelter. After all reasonable
attempts for reuniting the animal with its owner have been made during the
seventy two (72) hours, the animal can then be placed with an animal adoption
agency or an animal pound.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-133: BREAKING OR ENTERING POUND:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall:
      1.   Break or attempt to break open an animal pound, or take or let out
any animal therefrom;
      2.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the town of
Dickson any animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter; or
      3.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding of
animals as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-134: FEES FOR IMPOUNDING:
   A.   The town board of trustees, by motion or resolution shall determine the
fees to be charged for impounding and keeping animals.
   B.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required fees to
the town clerk and present his receipt therefor to the person in charge of the
pound before the latter releases the animal.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-135: RECLAMATION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   Reclamation of impounded animals may be made as provided in this section.
The party desiring to reclaim an animal shall present to the animal control
officer or other employee, who may be designated by the town board of trustees
proof of ownership, and proof that any dog or cat is currently vaccinated for
rabies or return proof of vaccination within three (3) days after the date the
animal is released. The party desiring to reclaim any animal shall pay the
applicable pound fee and show evidence to the animal control officer that the
fee has been paid. The animal control officer shall thereupon release the
reclaimed animal to the party. Any party violating any provision of this
section or failing to return proof of vaccination as provided herein shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine and taxing of court costs, in the
discretion of the Dickson municipal court.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-136: DISPOSITION AND SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   At the end of the period prescribed in this article, animals that have
not been redeemed by the owner thereof shall be destroyed in a humane manner or
sold in the manner hereinafter provided. Further, the animal may be adopted by
any citizen of the town upon payment of the applicable pound and license fees
for said animal. The board of trustees deems it to be their policy that
impounded animals shall first be offered for adoption, with provision that any
prospective adopting person may petition the board of trustees for a payment
plan, to allow said person to pay the impound fees and license costs.
   B.   The sales herein provided for shall be conducted by the person in
charge of the animal shelter as may be designated by the board of trustees.
Such sales shall be for cash to the highest bidder, but the animals shall not
be sold in any event for less than that sum required to cover the impounding
fee, board bill, vaccination expense, and license fees where applicable. If
there is no bid, or an insufficient amount is bid as herein provided, the
person in charge of the pound shall destroy such animal, unless he believes it
to be for the best interests of the town to retain the animal and offer it for
sale at a later date. The proceeds of the sale, less the vaccination fees which
shall be paid to the person administering the vaccination, shall be forthwith
delivered to the town clerk.
   C.   The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided herein, shall
acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
ARTICLE D.
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
4-140: ANIMAL CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully, maliciously or knowingly treat an
animal, bird or fowl in a cruel or inhumane manner; or to knowingly neglect an
animal, bird or fowl belonging to him or in his custody in a cruel or inhumane
manner.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-141: POISONING ANIMALS:
   It is unlawful for a person to wilfully poison any dog or other animal, or
knowingly expose poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
4-142: ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT:
   It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight between
animals or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy another animal.
It is further unlawful for any person to keep a house, building, structure,
pit, or other place used for fights between animals.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
ARTICLE E.
KENNELS
4-150: KENNELS, LICENSING:
   A.   Any person owning, possessing, keeping or harboring for the purpose of
breeding, selling or boarding, more than three (3) dogs or cats six (6) months
old or older shall be deemed to be operating a private kennel. No person shall
operate a private kennel without first obtaining an annual permit to operate
the kennel from the town clerk. (Ord. 80, 3-26-2012)
   B.   Permits under this section shall permit the animal control officer to
inspect the premises used as a private kennel. Private kennels shall be
maintained in accordance with written standards of the American Humane Society
and applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
   C.   Any person applying for a kennel permit from the town of Dickson shall
first prove to the board of trustees that timely notice has been given to any
person who resides or owns lands within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500')
of the proposed site of the kennel of the date, time, and place of hearing the
application, which shall be furnished by the town clerk. The notice shall
include the date, time and place of the hearing of the kennel application
before the board and shall be given no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of the hearing. The notice shall be given to neighbors and landowners
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the proposed kennel site by
registered mail, personal delivery if available, and by publication of at least
one legal notice in a newspaper of general circulation in Carter County,
Oklahoma. Applications for kennel permits shall be available from the Dickson
town clerk. Before hearing the application, the board of trustees must first be
satisfied that diligent effort has been employed to notify all affected persons
of the application. (Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
   D.   The annual fee for kennel permits shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 80, 3-26-2012)
ARTICLE F.
PENALTIES
4-160: PENALTY:
   Any person, firm, entity, or corporation who violates any ordinance or
provision of this chapter, or who violates or refuses or neglects to carry out
any reasonable order made by the animal control officer, a peace officer
employed by the town of Dickson, or a designated member of the board of
trustees, shall upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided by this code.
(Ord. 48, 3-19-1998)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
4-200: Definitions
4-201: Certificates Of Registration For Certain Dogs Required; Exemptions; Fee
4-202: Muzzles And Restraint Of Certain Dogs
4-203: Dogs Not To Be Declared Dangerous
4-204: Confiscation Of A Dangerous Dog
4-205: Fines
4-206: Purpose
4-207: Penalty
4-200: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMAL WELFARE: A local government authority acting alone or in concert with
other local governmental units for enforcement of the animal welfare laws of
the town, county, state, the shelter and welfare of animals.
ANIMAL WELFARE OFFICER: Any individual employed, contracted with, or appointed
by animal welfare for the purpose of aiding the enforcement of any law or
ordinance relating to the licensure of animals, control of animals, or seizure
and impoundment of animals, and includes any state or local enforcement officer
or other employee whose duties in whole or in part include assignments that
involve the seizure and impoundment of any animal. The words animal welfare
officer shall include certified law enforcement officer, reserve officer, or
full time employee employed by the town of Dickson.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
   A.   Has inflicted severe injury on a human being without provocation on
public or private property, or
   B.   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner having
received notice of such by the animal authority in writing and the dog
thereafter aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing,
harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having control or custody of an
animal.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS: Any dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites on
humans either on public or private property.
PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A DANGEROUS DOG: While on the owner's property a dangerous
dog shall be securely confined indoors, or in a securely enclosed and locked
pen or structure with at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet of space for
each dog kept there in which is over six (6) months of age, and which is
suitable to prevent the entry of children and designed to prevent the animal
from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have secure top, and shall also
provide protection from the elements for the dog.
SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury that results in broken bones or lacerations,
requiring sutures, or cosmetic surgery.
(Ord. 79, 9-26-2011)
4-201: CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION FOR CERTAIN DOGS REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS; FEE:
   A.   Certificate Of Registration For Certain Dogs Required: It is unlawful
for an owner to have a dangerous dog without certificate of registration issued
according to this chapter. This chapter shall not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement officials. (Ord. 79, 9-26-2011)
   B.   Exemptions: A certificate of registration shall be issued to the owner
of such animal if the owner presents to the animal control unit sufficient
evidence of: (Ord. 80, 3-26-2012)
      1.   A proper enclosure to confine a dangerous dog and the posting of the
premises with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a dangerous dog on
the property. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with a
warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a dangerous dog; and
      2.   A policy of liability insurance, such as homeowners' insurance, or
surety bond used by an insurer qualified under title 36 of the Oklahoma state
statutes in the amount of not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous animal.
   C.   Fee: A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be remitted to the director of
finance for the certificate of registration.
(Ord. 79, 9-26-2011)
4-202: MUZZLES AND RESTRAINT OF CERTAIN DOGS:
   It is unlawful for an owner of a dangerous dog to permit the dog to be
outside the proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash and under physical restraining of a responsible
person over sixteen (16) years of age. The muzzle shall be made in a manner
that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or
respiration but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
(Ord. 79, 9-26-2011)
4-203: DOGS NOT TO BE DECLARED DANGEROUS:
   Dogs shall not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury or damage was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a wilful trespass or
other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
(Ord. 79, 9-26-2011)
4-204: CONFISCATION OF A DANGEROUS DOG:
   Any dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by the chief of police or
law enforcement officer if: (Ord. 80, 3-26-2012)
   A.   The dog is not validly registered according to this chapter;
   B.   The owner does not secure the liability insurance coverage or surety
bond required by this chapter;
   C.   The dog is not maintained in the proper enclosure; and
   D.   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner or outside the proper
enclosure and not under the physical restraint of the responsible person. (Ord.
79, 9-26-2011)
   Any dangerous dog confiscated pursuant to this section and not reclaimed by
its owner under the requirements of this chapter within thirty (30) days from
the date of notice of confiscation shall be deemed abandoned and will be
euthanized. (Ord. 80, 3-26-2012)
4-205: FINES:
   Any fine imposed as a result of a violation of this chapter, at the
discretion of the court, may be offset by payments made by the dog owner to any
victim of an attack by the dog. However, insurance payments may not be
considered as an offset. (Ord. 79, 9-26-2011)
4-206: PURPOSE:
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide additional and cumulative
remedies to control dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to abridge or alter rights of action or remedies of
victims under the common law or statutory law, criminal or civil. (Ord. 79, 9-
26-2011)
4-207: PENALTY:
   Violation of this chapter shall result in a penalty of five (5) days in jail
or not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus any costs or destruction of
dog. (Ord. 79, 9-26-2011)
PART 5
BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-101: Codes Adopted
5-102: Fire Limits
5-103: Violations; Penalties
5-104: Mobile Home Requirements
5-101: CODES ADOPTED:
   The most recent editions of the following international codes relating to
building, plumbing, electrical installations, and fire prevention, recommended
by the International Code Council, Inc., are hereby adopted by reference, as
provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 14-107; 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
582:
   International building code;
   International plumbing code;
   International mechanical code;
   National electrical code;
   International fire code.
   Copies of said codes, rules and standards shall be kept in the office of the
town clerk for use, inspection and examination by the public.
(Ord. 77, 4-26-2010)
5-102: FIRE LIMITS:
   A.   Defined: The fire limits zone of the town shall be defined as the town
limits.
   B.   Buildings Within Fire Limits: No building or structure, other than
residential housing, shall be built, constructed, improved or added to that
situated within the zone known as fire limit zone unless said structure, in
addition to the building, plumbing, mechanical, and electrical code
requirements adopted in section
5-101 of this chapter, also meets the plans and specifications of the Oklahoma
state fire marshal for business and/or public buildings, which plans and
specifications by the state fire marshal are hereby adopted by reference
thereto.
(Ord. 77, 4-26-2010)
5-103: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter pertaining to
building, plumbing and electrical codes or fails to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who shall install electrical services, plumbing and/or
mechanical works, or construct or erect buildings or additions thereto in
violation of an approved plan or directive of the town mayor, or does work
without licenses required under the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of an offense, which shall be punishable as provided in section 1-108 of this
code.
      2.   Any person, firm, or corporation who engages in any business, trade,
or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate, or certificate of
registration is required by this chapter without having first obtained a valid
license, permit, certificate or certificate of registration as required, or who
shall fail to do anything required by this chapter or by any code adopted
herein, or who shall violate any lawful regulations as provided in this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as provided in section 1-108 of this code.
   B.   Injunctive Relief: No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this section
shall interfere with the right of the town to make application to a court of
proper jurisdiction for injunctive relief or other appropriate action, legal or
equitable, against such person, firm, or corporation deemed to be violating the
building, plumbing, mechanical, and electrical codes as set forth in this
chapter.
   C.   Application To Corporations And Associations: The violation of any
terms or provisions of this chapter by any corporation or association shall
subject the principal officers and agents thereof, actively in charge of the
business and of such corporation or association, to the penalties provided
herein.
(Ord. 77, 4-26-2010)
5-104: MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The most recent Oklahoma manufactured home installation standards
relating to installation of a mobile home, are hereby adopted by reference, as
provided by Oklahoma law: 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 582, establishment of
the Oklahoma used motor vehicle and parts commission.
   B.   The commission shall promulgate rules for licensing of manufactured
home installers and the installation, which is blocking, anchoring and leveling
of mobile and manufactured homes that meet the standards of the manufacturer's
manual or the commission. Copy of said law shall be kept for reference in the
office of the town clerk for use, inspection and examination by the public.
(Ord. 77, 4-26-2010)
PART 6
COURT
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
6-101: Definitions
6-102: Established
6-103: Jurisdiction
6-104: Judge; Appointment, Duties
6-105: Appeal Of Conviction; Notice
6-106: Prosecuting Attorney Designated
6-107: Court Clerk; Appointment, Duties
6-108: Compensation Of Court Officials
6-109: Fines And Costs
6-110: Appointment Of Attorney In Judge's Absence
6-111: New Court Provisions Effective
6-112: Rules Of Court
6-113: Enforcement
6-114: Collection Fee
6-101: DEFINITIONS:
 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR BOARD:         The mayor and board of trustees of the town
                                    of Dickson, Oklahoma.
MUNICIPAL COURT:                    The municipal court of the town of Dickson,
                                    Oklahoma.
MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK:              The appointed clerk of the municipal court
                                    of the town of Dickson, Oklahoma.
MUNICIPAL JUDGE OF MUNICIPAL COURT: The appointed municipal judge of the town
                                    of Dickson, Oklahoma.
 
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-102: ESTABLISHED:
   A municipal court is hereby established in the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, a
municipal governmental corporation operating under the statutory town form of
government. Said municipal court shall be referred to as the municipal court of
the town of Dickson, Oklahoma. (Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-103: JURISDICTION:
   The municipal court of the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, shall have all of the
powers, authority, and jurisdiction granted a municipal court in a municipality
operating under the statutory form of government (board of trustees) by
Oklahoma Statutes or common law. Any amendments or modifications of a municipal
government's municipal court implemented by the Oklahoma legislature,
applicable to statutory towns, subsequent to the adoption of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, increases in municipal court's jurisdictions and
authority to levy monetary fines and assessments, as well as to tax court
costs, shall automatically inure to the benefit of the town of Dickson,
Oklahoma, and its municipal court shall be deemed to have acquired any
additional powers, authority and/or jurisdiction granted statutory towns by the
Oklahoma legislature at any time in the future, without further amendment of
this chapter by the board of trustees.
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-104: JUDGE; APPOINTMENT, DUTIES:
   There shall be a municipal judge for the town of Dickson, Oklahoma. Said
judge shall be appointed by a majority of the board of trustees of the town of
Dickson, Oklahoma, and shall serve at the board's pleasure. The municipal judge
shall at all times be an attorney licensed to practice law before the supreme
court of Oklahoma, and shall be a resident of the state of Oklahoma during his
or her tenure. The municipal judge shall discharge his or her duties
faithfully, impartially, and fairly, and shall be responsible for determining
violations of municipal ordinances of the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, and
determining appropriate penalties thereof. The municipal judge may be removed
from office at anytime by a majority vote of the board of trustees, with or
without cause.
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-105: APPEAL OF CONVICTION; NOTICE:
   Appeals from a conviction in the municipal court of the town of Dickson,
Oklahoma, shall be de novo to the district court of Carter County, Oklahoma, as
provided by Oklahoma law. Notice of appeal shall be filed, in writing, with the
clerk of the municipal court of Dickson and the court clerk of Carter County
within ten (10) days from date of imposition of judgment and sentence. Upon
timely filing of an appeal, the municipal judge shall certify the appeal or
supersede bond, which shall be deposited with the town municipal court clerk
and the official record or transcript. Upon notification of appeal, the clerk
of the municipal court shall promptly notify the Carter County court clerk of
the appeal and posting of bond, in conformity with state statutes. Failure to
file the notice of intent to appeal within the time frame outlined shall deem
the judgment and sentence of the municipal judge of Dickson to be final. No
extension of the time frame to file the notice of intent to appeal shall be
granted in any instance.
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-106: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY DESIGNATED:
   The town attorney of Dickson shall be the designated prosecuting attorney in
the municipal court of Dickson, and shall represent the municipality on any
appeal to the district court of Carter County, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-107: COURT CLERK; APPOINTMENT, DUTIES:
   There shall be a municipal court clerk. Said clerk shall be appointed by the
board of trustees, and shall serve at the board's pleasure. The clerk shall be
responsible for the preparation of dockets for the municipal judge, collection
and proper deposit of fines and bonds of offenders or persons who have been
cited for violations of municipal ordinances, and shall keep an appropriate
journal thereof. The clerk shall attend all sessions of the municipal court of
Dickson, and shall be charged with the responsibility of maintaining the books,
records and dockets of the municipal court, as directed by the board of
trustees. The clerk shall also be responsible for appropriate notification to
the court clerk of Carter County, Oklahoma, of perfected appeals from the
municipal court of Dickson. The clerk shall further be responsible for prompt
reporting of all bond forfeitures, convictions and failure to pay fines or
costs, including insufficient checks, to the department of public safety of the
state of Oklahoma, or the state licensing the offender. The clerk shall further
be responsible for the proper recordation of the judgments and sentences of the
municipal judge. (Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
   The municipal court clerk shall be also designated as the deputy town clerk
and have powers and duties as the town clerk when the town clerk is
unavailable.
(Ord. 69, 12-17-2007)
6-108: COMPENSATION OF COURT OFFICIALS:
   The board of trustees shall set the compensation of the municipal judge and
municipal clerk of the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, for their duties as defined
herein.
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-109: FINES AND COSTS:
   The board of trustees shall implement, by separate ordinance or resolution,
appropriate fines and costs to be assessed by the municipal judge of the town
of Dickson, Oklahoma, for convictions of violations of municipal ordinances,
and shall periodically update said fines and costs in its discretion. The
schedule of fines and costs shall be limited to amounts allowed by Oklahoma
law, and shall be available at all times for public inspection.
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-110: APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY IN JUDGE'S ABSENCE:
   In event of recusal or disqualification by the municipal judge of the town
of Dickson, Oklahoma, in any case or issue, then and in said event, the board
of trustees shall appoint a licensed attorney on an interim basis, with
specific authority to hear and adjudicate specific cases or issues. The board
of trustees in such instance shall fix the compensation of the assigned
temporary judge, who shall be paid by the town clerk-treasurer.
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-111: NEW COURT PROVISIONS EFFECTIVE:
   The municipal court of the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, shall become effective
and shall acquire subject matter jurisdiction under this chapter and enabling
Oklahoma Statutes on August 22, 1997.
(Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-112: RULES OF COURT:
   A.   Prescribed By Judge: The municipal judge of the town of Dickson shall
have the authority to implement court rules, consistent with the laws of the
state and with the ordinances of the town, for the administration of justice
and procedure in the municipal court.
   B.   Posted: Said court rules shall be posted prominently in the town hall
of Dickson, Oklahoma, and shall govern procedures in the municipal court of the
town of Dickson, Oklahoma.
   C.   Enforcement: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the
judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison
for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or committed against
process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
district courts of the state of Oklahoma.
(Ord. 73, 8-24-2009)
6-113: ENFORCEMENT:
   Enforcement of ordinances of the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, shall be carried
out and performed by any law enforcement officer, including, but not limited
to, the Carter County sheriff's department, Oklahoma highway patrol, or any
other law enforcement agency operating within the corporate limits of the town
of Dickson, Oklahoma. (Ord. 44, 8-22-1997)
6-114: COLLECTION FEE 1 :
   A.   Defendant To Pay Cost: A collection fee of thirty-five percent (35%) of
Court penalties, cost fines, and fees in cases in which the accused has failed
to appear or otherwise failed to satisfy a monetary obligation imposed by the
Court, shall be added to any such case which is referred to a collection agency
for collection.
(Ord. 98, 9-26-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 O.S. §22-138
PART 7
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
7-101: Depositories designated; funds to be deposited.
7-102: Funds secured by Unit Collateral System.
7-103: Purchases, how made.
7-104: When prior approval by the town board of trustees is required.
7-101: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED.
   All banks and all savings and loan associations which may be so designated
by the town board of trustees shall be depositories for the funds of the town.
The town treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by him in such
banks or savings and loan associations.
State Law Reference: Deposits by treasurers, designation of depositories; 11
O.S. Section 12-110.
7-102: FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM.
   The deposits of the town shall be secured by the Unit Collateral System
provided by the Oklahoma Statutes.
State Law Reference: Unit Collateral System, 62 O.S. Sections 516.1 et seq.
7-103: PURCHASES, HOW MADE.
   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the offices, departments and agencies of the town government, shall be made by
the town board of trustees or by other town personnel in accordance with
purchase authorizations issued by the town board of trustees.
7-104: WHEN PRIOR APPROVAL BY THE TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES IS REQUIRED.
   Every contract for, or purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services for more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) shall
require the prior approval of the town board of trustees.
State Law Reference: Purchase Order Act, 62 O.S.Sections 310.1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX
SECTION:
7-201: Citation And Codification
7-202: Definitions
7-203: Tax Collector Defined
7-204: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-205: Subsisting State Permits
7-206: Effective Date
7-207: Purpose Of Revenues
7-208: Tax Rate; Sales Subject To Tax
7-209: Exemptions; Sales Subject To Other Tax
7-210: Exemptions; Governmental And Nonprofit Entities
7-211: Exemptions; General
7-212: Exemptions; Agriculture
7-213: Exemptions; Manufacturers
7-214: Exemptions; Corporations And Partnerships
7-215: Tax Due When; Returns; Records
7-216: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
7-217: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-218: Vendor's Duty To Collect Tax; Penalties
7-219: Returns And Remittances; Discounts
7-220: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
7-221: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-222: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
7-223: Fraudulent Returns
7-224: Records Confidential
7-225: Amendments
7-226: Provisions Cumulative
7-201: CITATION AND CODIFICATION 1
:
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as TOWN OF DICKSON SALES TAX
ORDINANCE.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1.   68 OS §§ 2701, 1350 et seq.
7-202: DEFINITIONS:
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Sales
Tax Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, and 37 Oklahoma Statutes sections
576 and 593, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(1987 Code)
7-203: TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED:
   The term "tax collector" as used in this chapter means the department of the
Town or the official agency of the State duly designated according to law or
contract, and authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax levied
in this chapter.
(1987 Code)
7-204: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
   For the purpose of this chapter the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code.
(1987 Code)
7-205: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional Town permit for the same purpose.
(1987 Code)
7-206: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   This chapter became effective as to each cent tax after approval of a
majority of the registered voters of the Town voting on the ordinance in the
manner prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-112.
(1987 Code)
7-207: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
   A.   It is the purpose of the Sales Tax levied herein to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the Municipal government of the Town as
follows:
(Ord. 12, 5-17-1977; amd. Ord. 13, 5-19-1983)
      1.   The total revenue generated by the four percent (4%) Sales (Excise)
Tax shall have a restricted use (earmarked) with 2.0 percent being used for the
Dickson Fire Department, 0.3 percent being used for the Dickson Police
Department and 1.7 percent being used for the Town of Dickson General Fund.
(Ord. 86, 6-29-2017)
7-208: TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX:
   A.   There is hereby levied an Excise Tax of four percent (4%) upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code including, but not exclusive of, the following: (Ord.
5, 9-18-1969; amd. Ord. 13, 5-19-1983; Ord. 61, 5-23-2005; Ord. 86, 6-29-2017)
      1.   Tangible personal property;
      2.   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service except water and those specifically exempt by this
chapter;
      3.   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
      4.   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or
users, including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This
shall include all services and rental charges having any connection with
transmission of any message;
      5.   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, and characters and
the service of printing or over printing, including the copying of information
by mimeograph or multigraph or by otherwise duplicating written or printed
matter in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers;
      6.   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public
rooming house, motel, public lodging house or tourist camps;
      7.   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels
and parking lots;
      8.   Selling, renting or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or
software or coding sheets, cards or magnetic tapes on which prewritten programs
have been coded, punched or otherwise recorded;
      9.   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants, or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
      10.   Advertising of all kinds, types and character, including any and
all devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except those specifically exempt by this chapter;
      11.   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
      12.   Sales of tickets, fees or other charges made for admission to or
voluntary contributions made to places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
that would have otherwise been made;
      13.   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind
of activity, when no admission is charged spectators, such as tennis, racket
ball or hand ball courts;
      14.   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement,
sports, entertainment or recreational activity such as trampolines or golf
carts;
      15.   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment or
other recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts, or
other sports and athletic equipment;
      16.   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without
any deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a
person who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
      17.   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of
tangible personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when
the rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered. Provided if the rental or lease
charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making the
rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and,the rental
or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the statement,
bill or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services rendered shall
be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
      18.   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease or other device or
instrument whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed
performances or rights to receive images, pictures or performances for telecast
by any method are transferred. Provided, persons regularly engaged in the
business of exhibiting motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or
admissions is taxed under this chapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or
users in respect to the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture
features, shorts, cartoons and scenes from copyrighted features and the sale or
licensing of such films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of
this chapter;
      19.   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees and other floral items, whether or
not same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or
nursery business in this state, including all orders taken by an Oklahoma
business for delivery in another state. Provided, all orders taken outside this
state for delivery within this state shall not be subject to the tax levied by
this chapter;
      20.   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors or
other salesmen, for resale where there is likelihood that this state will lose
tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this chapter because of:
         a.   The operation of the business;
         b.   The nature of the business;
         c.   The turnover of independent contractors;
         d.   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or
keep records;
         e.   Lack of adequate records;
         f.   The persons are minors or transients;
         g.   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
         h.   Any other reasonable reason;
      21.   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable; and
      22.   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
who are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repairmen, are
hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable.
7-209: EXEMPTIONS; SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code
inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from the:
      1.   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
      2.   Sale of motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles on which the Oklahoma Motor Vehicle Excise Tax
levied by state law has been paid;
      3.   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall
not apply when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or
use, except when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This paragraph shall not operate
to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of this
state; and
      4.   Sale of aircraft on which the tax levied pursuant to Sections 6001
through 6004 of Title 68 of the Oklahoma Statutes has been paid. The provisions
of this Paragraph 4 shall not become operative until July 1, 1984.
7-210: EXEMPTIONS; GOVERNMENTAL AND NONPROFIT ENTITIES.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
      1.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to the United States
government or to the State of Oklahoma, any political subdivision of this state
or any agency of a political subdivision of the state; provided, all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the United
States Government, State of Oklahoma or any of its political subdivisions shall
not be exempted from the tax levied by this chapter, except as hereinafter
provided;
      2.   Sales of property to agents appointed or contracted with by agencies
or instrumentalities of the United States Government if ownership and
possession of such property transfers immediately to the United States
Government;
      3.   Sales made directly by county, district or state fair authorities of
this state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of
the fair authority;
      4.   Sale of food in cafeterias or lunch rooms of elementary schools,
high schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for
teachers and pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for
profit;
      5.   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided, such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or
system, and provided such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to the exclusion of other members;
      6.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except sales made in the course of business for profit or savings, competing
with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
      7.   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state-supported college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production, or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described;
      8.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the council
organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy Scouts of
America, Girl Scouts of U.S.A, and the Campfire Girls shall be exempt from
sales tax;
      9.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the Oklahoma system
of higher education and the Grand River Dam Authority, or to any person with
whom any of the above named subdivisions or agencies of this state has duly
entered into a public contract pursuant to law, necessary for carrying out such
public contract or to any subcontractor to such a public contract. Any person
making purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency of this state shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor that the purchases are made for and on behalf of such subdivision
or agency of this state and set out the name of such public subdivision or
agency. Any person who wrongfully or erroneously certifies that purchases are
for any of the above named subdivision or agencies of this state or who
otherwise violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined an amount equal to double the amount of the
sales tax involved or incarcerated for not more than sixty (60) days or both;
      10.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to private
institutions of higher education and private elementary and secondary
institutions of education accredited by the State Department of Education or
registered by the State Board of Education for purposes of participating in
federal programs or accredited as defined by the Oklahoma State Regents for
Higher Education which are exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, including materials, supplies,
and equipment used in the construction and improvement of buildings and other
structures owned by the institutions and operated for educational purposes. Any
person, firm, agency or entity making purchases on behalf of any institution,
agency or subdivision in this state, shall certify in writing, on the copy of
the invoice of sales ticket the nature of the purchases, and violation of this
act shall be a misdemeanor as set forth in Paragraph (9) of this section; and
      11.   Tuition and educational fees paid to private institutions of higher
education and private elementary and secondary institutions of education
accredited by the State Department of Education or registered by the State
Board of Education for purposes of participating in federal programs or
accredited as defined by the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education which
are exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of the Section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code.
7-211: EXEMPTIONS; GENERAL.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
      1.   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or
high schools in motor or other vehicles;
      2.   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed One Dollar ($1.00), or local transportation of persons within the
corporate limits of a municipality except by taxicab;
      3.   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers. Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed seventy-five cents ($0.75). A carrier is a person
who regularly delivers newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned
route;
      4.   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling the
articles purchased, whether within or without the state, provided that such
sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this chapter. This exemption shall not apply to
the sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons
purchase items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the
business of reselling; neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible
personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other salesmen who do not have an
established place of business and a sales tax permit;
      5.   Sales of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and
billboard advertising service, and any advertising through the electronic
media, including radio, television and cable television;
      6.   Eggs, feed, supplies, machinery and equipment purchased by persons
regularly engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of
raising same for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and extended
to the purchaser when the items are to be used and in fact are used in the
raising of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he is
regularly engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that the
items purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall certify to
the Oklahoma Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to
grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or
vendor shall be a misdemeanor;
      7.   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human
beings by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption
shall not apply to proprietary or patent medicines as defined by Section 353.1
of Title 59 of the Oklahoma Statutes;
      8.   Transfers of title or possession of empty, partially filled, or
filled returnable oil drums to any person who is not regularly engaged in the
business of selling, reselling or otherwise transferring empty, partially
filled, or filled returnable oil drums; and
      9.   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the
city from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas
and electricity, whether sold for residential or commercial purposes. Any sales
tax levied by the city on natural or artificial gas and electricity shall be in
effect regardless of ordinance or contractual provisions referring to
previously imposed state sales tax on such items.
7-212: EXEMPTIONS; AGRICULTURE.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
      1.   Sales of agricultural products produced in this state by the
producer thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold
at or from a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
         a.   Farm, orchard or garden products;
         b.   Dairy products sold by a dairyman or farmer who owns all the cows
from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
         c.   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; or
         d.   The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed as
exempting sales by florists, nurserymen or chicken hatcheries, or sales of
dairy products by any other business except as set out herein;
      2.   Livestock, including cattle, horses, mules, or other domestic or
draft animals, sold by the producer by private treaty or at a special livestock
sale;
      3.   Sale of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chickens, turkeys and eggs, provided that the
purchaser certifies, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to
be retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
      4.   Sale of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone and other generally recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding
stock and wool-bearing stock, for the purpose of producing eggs, poultry, milk
or meat for human consumption;
         b.   Feed purchased in Oklahoma for the purpose of being fed to and
which is fed by the purchaser to horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
         c.   Any stock tonics, water purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants or other such agricultural supplies;
         d.   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the market or production of eggs;
         e.   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such
as dogs, cats, birds or such other fur-bearing animals; and
         f.   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used and in fact is used for a purpose that
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the Tax Commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy;
       5.   Sales of items to be and in fact used in the production of
agricultural products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the
following limitations:
         a.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he is so engaged in farming or ranching and that the
material purchased will be used only in such business;
         b.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons, regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify, in writing,
on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that he
is engaged in the business of applying such materials to lands owned or leased
and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the business of
farming or ranching, and shall show in the certificate the name or names of
such owner or lessee and operator, the location of the lands on which the
materials are to be applied, to each such land, and he shall further certify
that his contract price has been reduced so as to give the farmer or rancher
the full benefit of this exemption;
         c.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer, pharmaceuticals and biologicals
to persons engaged in the business of applying such materials on a contract or
custom basis shall not be considered to be sales to contractors under this
chapter, and the sales shall not be considered to be taxable sales within the
meaning of the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. As used in this section, "agricultural
fertilizer", "pharmaceuticals" and "biologicals" mean any substance sold and
used for soil enrichment or soil corrective purposes or for promoting the
growth and productivity of plants or animals;
         d.   Sales of agricultural seed or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. This section shall
not be construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and sold
for use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
         e.   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. For the purposes
of this act, agricultural chemical pesticides shall include any substance or
mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling or
mitigating any insect, snail, slug, rodent, bird, nematode, fungus, weed or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life or virus, bacteria or
other microorganism, except viruses, bacterial or other micro-organisms on or
in living man, or any substance or mixture of substances intended for use as a
plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant; and
         f.   This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the
purchaser where the items are to be used and in fact are used in the production
of agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy
of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his farming occupation. The vendor shall certify
to the Oklahoma Tax Commission that the contract price of the items has been
reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the
purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon violation and conviction
for a second offense the Oklahoma Tax Commission shall revoke the vendor's
sales tax permit; and
      6.   Sale of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil,
lubricants and other substances used for operation and maintenance of the farm
machinery to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production,
cultivation, planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation
or irrigation of any livestock, poultry, agricultural or dairy products
produced from such lands. Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts
thereto or fuel must certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor, that he is engaged in farming or ranching
and that the farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used only in
farming or ranching. The exemption provided for herein shall not apply to motor
vehicles. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice
or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material purchased will
only be used in his farming occupation. The vendor shall certify to the
Oklahoma Tax Commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant
the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor
shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon violation and conviction for a second offense
the Oklahoma Tax Commission shall revoke the vendor's sales tax permit.
7-213: EXEMPTIONS; MANUFACTURERS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
      1.   Goods, wares, merchandise and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing for sale a finished article and such goods,
wares, merchandise or property become integral parts of the manufactured,
compounded, processed, assembled or prepared products or are consumed in the
process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling or preparing
products for resale. The term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
      2.   Ethyl alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending same
with motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
      3.   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in Oklahoma, and machinery and equipment
purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing plants already
established in Oklahoma. This exemption shall not apply unless such machinery
and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under this chapter. The term
"manufacturing plants" means those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
      4.   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for the
purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to the
consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable
containers, except returnable soft drink bottles. Each and every transfer of
title or possession of such returnable containers in this state to any person
who is not regularly engaged in the business of selling, reselling or otherwise
transferring empty or filled containers shall be taxable under this code. This
exemption shall not apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered
along with items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to
the sale of the sold merchandise; or
      5.   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in Oklahoma when
sold by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state.
7-214: EXEMPTIONS; CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this chapter:
      1.   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
         a.   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this subparagraph the term "reorganization" means a
statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
         b.   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of
a corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
         c.   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such
corporation where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately
after the transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities
received by each is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property
prior to the transfer;
         d.   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of such partnership and the interest in the partnership, received by
each, is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property prior to
the transfer; or
         e.   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in
the dissolution of such partnership; or
      2.   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property.
7-215: TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
7-216: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the tax collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax.
7-217: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
7-218: VENDOR'S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX; PENALTIES.
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in this town to collect from
the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or an
amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
   C.   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user
by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
7-219: RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code
for collection of state sales taxes.
7-220: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   Section 217 of Title 68 of the Oklahoma Statutes is hereby adopted and made
a part of this chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts
as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter. The failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of
tax in the time and manner required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if the delinquency continues for a period of five (5)
days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this
chapter.
7-221 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer's failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in Section 220 of Title 68 of the Oklahoma
Statutes. To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of Section 220 of Title 68 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter.
7-222: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in Section 227 of Title 68 of the Oklahoma
Statutes. To accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions
of Section 227 of Title 68 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter.
7-223: FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilfull
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this chapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
7-224: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the o administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code,
Section 205 of Title 68 of the Oklahoma Statutes, and each subsection thereof,
are hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the town sales tax as if here set forth in full.
7-225: AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance hereby
authorize the town board of trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the town as provided by law.
7-226: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
CHAPTER 3
911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE TAX
SECTION:
7-301: Levy Of Service Tax
7-302: Collection; Time Period
7-301: LEVY OF SERVICE TAX:
   The town of Dickson, Oklahoma, hereby provides for the operation of an
emergency telephone service, commonly referred to as "911", through the levy of
an emergency telephone service tax or service fee of five percent (5%) of the
applicable telephone tariff rate. Said tax or service fee is hereby levied
pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 2811 and 2814, for a period of three
(3) years from May 20, 1996, until May 20, 1999.
(Ord. 49, 7-16-1998)
7-302: COLLECTION; TIME PERIOD:
   Collection of the emergency telephone service tax shall be authorized and
shall continue for a period of time not to exceed three (3) years, or from May
20, 1996, to May 20, 1999. On or about May 1999, the board of trustees of
Dickson may renew the levy of such tax for consecutive periods of time not to
exceed three (3) years.
(Ord. 49, 7-16-1998)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
7-401: Utility tax levied.
7-402: Not to apply to franchises.
7-403: Payment of tax.
7-404: Failure to pay tax.
7-405: Tax constitutes lien.
7-401: UTILITY TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon
the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas in the town,
which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation, or
excise tax levied by such town, all as provided by state law.
State Law Reference: Utility tax authorized for municipalities, 68 O.S.
Sections 2601 et seq.
7-402: NOT TO APPLY TO FRANCHISES.
   The tax levied under this chapter shall, when levied, apply to all persons,
firms, associations, or corporations engaged in business of furnishing gas
within the town limits, except it shall not apply to any person, firm,
association, or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the town.
7-403: PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax levied under this chapter on gas and electric receipts shall be
levied for a term of not more than one year and shall be payable as required by
the town board of trustees and placed in the general revenue fund of the town.
7-404: FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney's fees.
7-405: TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town of any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas or electricity within the town limits.
CHAPTER 5
USE TAX 1
SECTION:
7-501: Excise Tax On Storage, Use, Or Other Consumption Of Tangible Personal
Property Levied
7-502: Exemptions
7-503: Time Due; Returns; Payment
7-504: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-505: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
7-506: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining A Place Of
Business Within The State Of Both Within And Without State; Permits
7-507: Revoking Permits
7-508: Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Or Retailers Of Other States
7-509: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
7-510: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-511: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
7-512: Fraudulent Returns
7-513: Record Confidential
7-514: Provisions Cumulative
7-515: Provisions Severable
7-516: Definitions
7-517: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-518: Subsisting State Permits
7-519: Purpose Of Revenues
7-520: Citation
7-521: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1.    68 O.S. § 1411
7-501: EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE, OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF TANGIBLE PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED:
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using, or otherwise consuming within the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, tangible,
personal property purchased or brought into this town, an excise tax on the
storage, use or otherwise consuming within the town of such property at the
rate of four percent (4%) of the purchase price of such property. Such tax
shall be paid by every person storing, using, or otherwise consuming, within
the town, tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the town. The
additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or
storage of the property within the town and shall be assessed only to property
purchased outside Oklahoma; provided that, the tax levied herein shall not be
levied against tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the
town, but which is stored in the town pending shipment outside the town or
which is temporarily retained in the town for the purpose of fabrication,
repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable
for payment of the use tax authorized herein, may deduct from such use tax any
local, county or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or services;
provided that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have
been due if the taxes imposed by the town had been levied on the sale of such
goods or services.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-502: EXEMPTIONS:
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply:
   A.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought in the town of a non-resident individual visiting in this town for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the town;
   B.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   C.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess on that levied by both the Oklahoma use code
and the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, use tax ordinance, has been paid the person
using such tangible, personal property in the town, whether such tax was levied
under the Laws of Oklahoma or some other state, municipality, or county of the
United States. If any article of tangible personal property has already been
subjected to a tax law of Oklahoma or any other state or county in respect to
its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma
use tax code and Dickson, Oklahoma, use tax ordinance, and the rate by which
the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed; provided, that, no credit
shall be given for taxes paid in another state, municipality, or county does
not grant like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma and the town;
   D.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the town, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the town which machinery and
equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to the taxation under the sales tax code of
Dickson, Oklahoma. The term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
   E.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of Dickson, Oklahoma;
   F.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by an individual with intent to become resident of this
town where such personal property is for such individual's personal use or
enjoyment;
   G.   In respect to the sum of any article of tangible personal property
used, or to be used, by commercial airlines or railroads; or
   H.   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
this town for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-503: TIME DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT:
   The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax
code of the State of Oklahoma.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-504: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
   Such taxes, penalty, or interest due hereunder shall always constitute a
prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as with any other debt.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-505: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the State of Oklahoma, and making sales of tangible, personal property
from a place of business outside this state for use in the town of Dickson,
Oklahoma, shall, at the time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied
by this chapter from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt
therefore in the manner and form prescribed by the Oklahoma tax commission, if
said tax commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer
or vendor shall list operating in this town and location of any and all
distribution of sales houses or offices or places of business in the town.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-506: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING A PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN THE STATE OF BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE; PERMITS:
   The Oklahoma tax commission may, at its discretion, upon application
authorize the collection of the use tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor
not maintaining a place of business within the state but who make sales of
tangible, personal property for use in this town, and by the out-of-state place
of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of businesses both
within and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible, personal property at
such out-of-state place of business for use in this town. Such retailer or
vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by said
tax commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements,
as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such
retailer or vendor to collect the use tax upon all tangible, personal property
sold to his/her knowledge for use within this town. Such authority and permit
may be canceled when, at any time, said tax commission considers that such use
tax can more effectively be collected from the person using such property in
this town; provided, however, delivery to the purchaser within the town by the
retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or
leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be
subject to applicable town sales tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall
be collected and reported under the taxpayer's sales tax permit number
accordingly.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-507: REVOKING PERMITS:
   Pursuant to 68 Okla. St. §1408, whenever any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business in this state, or both within and without this
state, and authorized to collect the use tax herein levied, fails to comply
with any of the provisions of the Oklahoma tax code, the rules or regulations
of the tax commission or this chapter, the tax commission may, upon notice and
hearing as hereinafter provided, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing as herein provided, cancel said corporation's license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this chapter. No order authorized in this
section shall be made until the retailer or vendor is given an opportunity to
be heard and to show cause why such order should not be made and he shall be
given ten (10) days by mail of the time, place and purpose of such hearing.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-508: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES:
   Returns and remittances of the use tax herein levied and collected shall be
made to the Oklahoma tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and
amount prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma tax code
(68 Okla. St. §101 et seq.); remittances of use taxes collected hereunder shall
be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said code for the
collection of state use taxes.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-509: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
   Title 68 Okla. St. §217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter,
and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified
are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting
and paying the use tax levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency
in reporting and paying the use tax levied by this chapter; provided, that, the
failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports
and remittances of use tax levied by this chapter shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five (5)
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed
under this chapter.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-510: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the use tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver of remittance as
applied in administration of the state use provided in 68 Okla. St. §227 to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said §227
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-511: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time provided for administration of the state
use tax as set forth in 68 Okla. St. §227 to accomplish the purpose of this
section the applicable provisions of said §227 are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-512: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any use tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due
under this chapter, shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the
offending taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00). Each day of noncompliance with this chapter shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-513: RECORD CONFIDENTIAL:
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Okla. St. § 205, of the
state tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town use tax as if
herein set forth in full.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-514: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxpaying provisions of town ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-515: PROVISIONS SEVERABLE:
   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence, or clause of this chapter, is for any reason held
invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence, or clause hereof.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-516: DEFINITIONS:
   The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in 68 Okla. St. §1401
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter; in addition,
thereto, the following words and terms shall be defined as follows:
 
               The department of the town, or the official agency of the state,
TAX COLLECTOR: duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law,
               to administer the collection of the use tax herein levied.
TOWN:          The Town of Dickson, Oklahoma.
TRANSACTION:   Shall mean sale.
 
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-517: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
   For purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder shall
be as prescribed by state law for the purpose of the Oklahoma tax code.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-518: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma tax code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lien of any requirement for
an additional municipal permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-519: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the Town of
Dickson, Oklahoma, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended
by the town board of trustees for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully
expended and authorized.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-520: CITATION:
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Town of Dickson,
Oklahoma, "Use Tax Ordinance."
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
7-521: PENALTY:
   Any violation of this chapter shall be liable for a fine not to exceed two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per day, or the maximum legal limit.
(Ord. 97, 1-4-2021)
PART 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
WEEDS AND TRASH
SECTION:
8-101: Accumulation of trash or weeds unlawful.
8-102: Definitions.
8-103: Reports of accumulation of grass, weeds or trash on property.
8-104: Receipt of report, hearing and notice.
8-105: Work done by employees or contract.
8-106: Determination and assessment of costs.
8-107: Lien on property, civil remedy.
8-108: Service of notice.
8-109: Unlawful to deposit rubbish.
8-110: Burning refuse.
8-111: Removal of dead animals.
8-112: Unlawful to litter.
8-113: Unlawful to litter from automobiles.
8-114: Litter not to accumulate on property.
8-115: Penalty.
8-101: ACCUMULATION OF TRASH OR WEEDS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of land
situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the town to allow
trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the duty
of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
State Law Reference: Cleaning, mowing property, municipal powers, 11 O.S.
Section 22-110.
8-102: DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   1.   "Weeds" includes but is not limited to poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
      a.   Exceeds twelve (12) inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs
or produce for human consumption or own in a tended and cultivated garden
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
      b.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      c.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      d.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      e.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      f.   Is dead or diseased.
   The term ''weed" does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use;
   2.   "Trash" means any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper,
combustible materials, rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form
which is uncared for, discarded or abandoned; and
   3.   "Owner" means the owner of record as shown by the most current tax
rolls of the county treasurer.
8-103: REPORTS OF ACCUMULATION OF GRASS, WEEDS OR TRASH ON PROPERTY.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the town, shall report the condition to the town clerk-
treasurer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to
be:
   1.   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   2.   A hazard to traffic;
   3.   A fire hazard to property; or
   4.   Any two (2) or more of these conditions.
State Law Reference: Cleaning and mowing of property, procedures and powers 11
O.S. Section 22-111.
8-104: RECEIPT OF REPORT, HEARING AND NOTICE.
   A.   Upon receiving the report provided for in Section
8-103 of this code, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any reliable
source, the town clerktreasurer shall place the matter upon the agenda of the
town board for hearing and consideration at an appropriate date which will
permit the giving of the notices prescribed by state law. At the hearing the
board shall consider whether the premises, by reason of the conditions
specified, are detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and
the community, or a hazard to traffic, or a fire hazard to property, or any two
(2) or more of such conditions.
   B.   At least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the town clerk-treasurer
shall give written notice of the hearing by forwarding a copy thereof by
certified mail with return receipt requested to the owner of the property at
the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the office of the
treasurer of the county in which the property is located. If the return receipt
shows that the property owner cannot be located, notice shall be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation one time not less than ten
(10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   At least ten (10) days from the date of receipt of the notice by the
owner or the date of publication and upon the date specified in the notice, the
town board shall hear the matter and shall receive information thereon,
including anything which may be presented by the owner of the premises,
personally or by agent or attorney. If the board determines that any of the
conditions specified in section 8-103 of this chapter exist upon the premises,
it may order the property to be cleaned of trash, or other trash or weeds to be
cut, removed or destroyed unless within ten (10) days from the date of receipt
of the notice or date of publication the owner either:
      1.   Cuts, removes or destroys the trash or weeds in accordance with the
notice; or
      2.   Gives written consent authorizing the town to abate the trash or
weeds, thereby waiving his right to a hearing.
(1987 Code)
8-105: WORK DONE BY EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACT:
   The work ordered to be performed under section
8-104 of this chapter may be done by the employees of this town under
supervision of the town utility or sanitation department, or it may be let by
contract to the lowest and best bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner
for letting other contracts.
(1987 Code)
8-106: DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under section
8-105 of this chapter, the town clerk-treasurer shall report the cost thereof
to the town board. Such report shall be itemized as to each tract of property
involved as follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and
supplies, cost of notice, other costs and indirect costs of five percent (5%)
of direct actual costs. The board shall examine the report and, after receiving
appropriate information, shall determine the total costs of the work. The board
shall direct the town clerk-treasurer to forward a statement and demand payment
of the total cost by certified mail with return receipt requested to the owner
of the property at the address shown by the current tax rolls in the office of
the treasurer of the county in which the property lies.
(1987 Code)
8-107: LIEN ON PROPERTY, CIVIL REMEDY:
   If the costs of the work performed under this chapter are not paid within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by section
8-106 of this chapter, the town clerk-treasurer shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the costs to the county treasurer of the county in
which the property upon which the work was done is located, in order that the
amount be levied upon the property and be collected by the county treasurer in
the manner prescribed by the law of this state. The lien is coequal with the
lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and prior
and superior to all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall
continue until the cost is fully paid. At any time prior to collection as
provided in this section the town may pursue any civil remedy for collection of
the amount owing and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the town
clerk-treasurer shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment
and directing discharge of the lien.
(1987 Code)
8-108: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
   Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111, subsection A7, the town of
Dickson board of trustees hereby designates the police department to carry out
the duties of the town trustees specified therein.
   The service of all notices prescribed by this chapter shall be evidenced by
the return of the officer making such service, certified in his official
capacity, and filed in the office of the town clerk-treasurer.
(Ord. 74, 9-28-2009)
8-109: UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT RUBBISH:
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush or any other refuse
or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley or in any ditch or watercourse, or
upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in this town.
(1987 Code)
8-110: BURNING REFUSE:
   A.   It is unlawful to wilfully burn any trash or refuse or any type
material within the town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to burn trash, wastepaper, rubbish or
refuse except under a permit issued by the state health department or U.S.
environmental protection agency.
(1987 Code)
8-111: REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in this town,
shall within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(1987 Code)
8-112: UNLAWFUL TO LITTER:
   A.   "Littering" is defined as throwing any trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin
can, bottles or any other object or substance whatever upon the public streets,
alleys, roadways and sidewalks of the town or upon any real property owned or
occupied by another.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to litter.
(1987 Code)
8-113: UNLAWFUL TO LITTER FROM AUTOMOBILES:
   It is unlawful for any person to throw from any automobile or motor vehicle
being operated and driven upon and over the streets, alleys and roadways of the
town any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin cans or any other substance or refuse
whatever.
(1987 Code)
8-114: LITTER NOT TO ACCUMULATE ON PROPERTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, occupying any real
property, either as tenant or owner, to allow trash, wastepaper, litter
objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to
accumulate upon such real property or premises being so occupied or rented to
such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
   B.    It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any real
property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash, wastepaper,
litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to
be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements or
otherwise to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by the
offender.
(1987 Code)
8-115: PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-201: Food service regulations adopted.
8-202: Milk ordinance adopted.
8-203: Grade requirements.
8-204: Violation; penalty.
8-201: FOOD SERVICE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   A.   The latest edition of the ''Oklahoma State Department of Health Rules
and Regulations Pertaining to Food Establishments" is hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code by reference. At least one copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. The
rules and regulations shall govern the definitions; inspection of food service
establishments; the issuance, suspension, and revocation of permits to operate
food service establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or
misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this section.
   B.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-108 of this code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may
be enjoined from continuing the violation.
State Law Reference: State food regulations, 63 O.S. Sections 1-1101 et seq.
8-202: MILK ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   Part II of the Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, recommended by the U.S.
Public Health Service, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference to
govern and regulate the production, transportation, processing, handling,
sampling, examination, grading, labeling and sale of milk and milk products
sold for ultimate consumption within the town limits or its police
jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy herds and milk plants; the
issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers, haulers and distributors.
At least one copy of the Pasteurized Milk Ordinance shall be filed in the
office of the appropriate official. Sections 9, 16 and 17 of the abridged
ordinance shall be replaced, respectively by Sections
8-203 and
8-204 of this code.
State Law Reference: State laws regulating milk standards, 63 O.S. Sections 1-
1301 et seq.; manufacture of milk, 2 O.S. Sections 7-1 et seq.
8-203: GRADE REQUIREMENTS.
   Only grade A pasteurized milk and milk products shall be sold to the final
consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery stores or similar
establishments; provided that in an emergency, ungraded milk or the grade which
is unknown, may be authorized by the health authority, in which case, such milk
and milk products shall be labeled ''ungraded."
8-204: VIOLATION; PENALTY,
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in
Section
1-108 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
8-301: Nuisance defined; public nuisances; private nuisances.
8-302: Persons responsible.
8-303: Time does not legalize.
8-304: Remedies against public nuisances.
8-305: Remedies against private nuisances.
8-306: Town has power to define and summarily abate nuisances.
8-307: Certain public nuisances in the town defined.
8-308: Summary abatement of nuisances.
8-309: Abatement by suit in district court.
8-310: Nuisance unlawful.
8-311: Health nuisances; abatement.
8-312: Toilet facilities required; nuisance.
8-313: Procedure cumulative.
8-301: NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC NUISANCES; PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   A.   A nuisance is unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty or
is any thing or condition which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   B.   A public nuisance is one which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   C.   Every nuisance not included in Subsection B above is a private
nuisance.
State Law Reference: Nuisances defined, municipal powers to abate, 50 O.S.
Sections 1 et seq.
8-302: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
8-303: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.?
8-304: REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in Section 12 of Title 50 of the
Oklahoma Statutes; or
         b.   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
8-305: REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in Sections 14 and 15 of Title 50
of the Oklahoma Statutes; or
   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
8-306: TOWN HAS POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES.
   As provided in Section 16 of Title 50 of the Oklahoma Statutes, the town has
power to determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its
corporate limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks
and the public water supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is
practical to do so, the town has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance
after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can
be done.
8-307: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES IN THE TOWN DEFINED.
   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of this
code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      1.   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      2.   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the town; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinance of the town;
      3.   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      4.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      5.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      6.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law or
ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      7.   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the town; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      8.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      9.   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      10.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      11.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      12.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      13.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      14.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the premises on which such exist;
      15.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      16.   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      17.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      18.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      19.   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district; or
      20.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative and
not limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms.
8-308: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   A.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require the mayor or other appropriate officer
or agency of the town government to take immediate and proper action summarily
to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more
deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   The chief of the fire department, the chief of police, the town
attorney, the building inspector, the electrical inspector, the plumbing
inspector or any other officer subordinate to the mayor may submit through or
with the consent of the mayor to the town board of trustees, a statement as to
the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town or law,
and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The mayor himself, the
health officer and board of trustees or any resident or residents of the town
may submit such a statement and request a recommendation to the board of
trustees.
   C.   The board of trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the board of trustees shall have power to subpoena and examine
witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the
nuisance or have it abated, the board of trustees shall give notice of a
hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property concerned and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation
within the town.
   D.   If the board of trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it
shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the board of trustees shall direct the mayor to abate the nuisance or to
have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by Section 16
of Title 50 of the Oklahoma Statutes. The town clerk-treasurer shall send a
statement of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the
circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost
shall constitute a debt to the town collectible as other debts to the town may
be collected.
8-309: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance the
town may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in Section 17 of Title 50 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
8-310: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including but not limited to any owner,
lessee, or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the town.
8-311: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   A.   Pursuant to authority granted by Section 1-1011 of Title 63 of the
Oklahoma Statutes, the health officer shall have authority to order the owner
or occupant of any private premises in the town to remove from such premises,
at his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive
to the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission
of disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health,
within twenty-four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be directed in
writing and may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises,
or authorized agent thereof, by the health officer or by a policeman or a copy
thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant or
agent, if known and within the state. If the premises are unoccupied and the
residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the state,
the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by
publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation
in the town.
   B.   If the order is not complied with, the health officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the town clerk-treasurer, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance
shall be added to the water bill or other town utility bill of the owner or
occupant if he is a user of water from the town water system or such other
utility service. The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to
which it is added and shall become due and payable, and subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any town utility service, such cost,
after certification to the town clerk-treasurer, may be collected in any manner
in which any other debt due the town may be collected.
8-312: TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE.
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
respective meanings ascribed to them herein:
      1.   "Human excrement" means the bowel and kidney discharge of human
beings;
      2.   "Sanitary water closet" means the flush type toilet which is
connected with a sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to
carry away the contents at all times; and
      3.   "Sanitary pit privy" means a privy which is built, rebuilt or
constructed so as to conform with the specifications approved by the state
health department.
   B.   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate within this town shall install, equip and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by use of a
sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy. The closets and toilets hereby
required shall be of the sanitary water closet type when located within two
hundred (200) feet of a sanitary sewer and accessible thereto and of the
sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary
sewer) or the water closet type emptying into a septic tank system or the pit
privy type. A septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only
if it meets the standards of and is approved by the state health department.
   C.   All human excrement disposed of within this town shall be disposed of
by depositing it in closets and privies of the type provided for in this
section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within the town to permit the
disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to
dispose of human excrement within the town in any other manner.
   D.   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop or anything other than
human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy. No excrement
from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery or other serious bowel
disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or sanitary water closet
until it is disinfected in such a manner as may be prescribed by the health
officer.
   E.   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public health, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as
such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense and each
day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
8-313: PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative on to any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
CHAPTER 4
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
8-401: County health department designated to enforce health ordinances.
8-402: Obstructing health officer.
8-403: Quarantine; violations.
8-404: Penalty.
8-401: COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED TO ENFORCE HEALTH ORDINANCES.
   Anywhere in this chapter where the word or words "health officer" are used
it shall be construed to mean the director of the county health department or
his duly designated representative. It is the intent and purpose of the mayor
and town board of trustees to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances
of this town as set out in this section and any such decisions rendered under
this section shall be subject to review by the governing board upon an appeal
from an offender.
8-402: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
this town.
8-403: QUARANTINE; VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or omit to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
board of health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation.
8-404: PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any law or code
adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in Section
1-108 of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations.
CHAPTER 5
CONDEMNATION AND ABATEMENT OF DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
8-501: State Statute Adopted
8-502: Procedures For Condemnation And Abatement
8-503: Boarding And Securing Dilapidated Buildings
8-501: STATE STATUTE ADOPTED:
   11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112, and all subsequent amendments thereto,
is hereby adopted and incorporated herein, for the purpose of establishing
procedures for the condemnation and abatement of nuisances caused by
dilapidated buildings within the corporate limits of the town of Dickson.
(Ord. 74, 9-28-2009)
8-502: PROCEDURES FOR CONDEMNATION AND ABATEMENT:
   A.   The Dickson police department may cause dilapidated buildings within
the municipal limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the
following procedures:
      1.   At least ten (10) days' notice that a building is to be torn down or
removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the police
department holds a public hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the
property affected. In addition, a copy of said notice shall be sent by mail to
the property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
office of the county treasurer.
      Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown by
records in the office of the county clerk to the last known address of
mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or mortgage
holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service,
which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of
the mailee. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property,
or by publication as provided by law. Such notice may be published once not
less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the town pursuant to
the provisions of this section.
      2.   A hearing shall be held by the police department to determine if the
property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the general public and the community, or if said property creates a
fire hazard, which is dangerous to other property. The property owner shall
have the right of appeal to the town trustees from any order issued by the
police department. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of the
appeal with the town clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order
is rendered. The appeal shall be heard by the town trustees within thirty (30)
days of the date the notice of appeal was filed with the town clerk. At the
hearing on the appeal the town trustees shall either affirm or set aside the
order of the police department.
      3.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property constitutes
a detriment or a hazard and the property would be benefited by the removal of
such conditions, the police department may cause the dilapidated building to be
torn down and removed. The police department shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and the completion of the work by the owner. The town clerk shall
immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the county clerk
describing the property, the findings of the police department on hearing, and
stating the town of Dickson claims a lien on said property for the destruction
and removal costs and that such costs are the personal obligation of the
property owner from and after the date of filing of said notice. The agents and
employees of the town are granted the right of entry on the property for the
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the town, if
the property owner does not perform the work within dates fixed by the police
department.
      4.   The police department shall determine the actual costs of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the costs of the notice and mailing. The town clerk shall
forward a statement of the actual costs attributable to the dismantling and
removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail to the
property owner. In addition, a copy of said statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address provided for in subsection A1 of this section.
At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall have indicated the date of mailing and the name
and address of the addressee. If the town dismantles or removes any dilapidated
building, the costs of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for the
dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings is done on a private
contract basis; the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      5.   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the town clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual costs
of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six (6)
months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such
property, the town clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the costs to the county treasurer of the county in which the property is
located. Said costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the county
treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs
and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with
the county clerk. In addition the costs and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with
the county clerk. Said lien shall be coequal with the lien and ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to
all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until
the cost is fully paid. At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall
collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. Said fees
shall be deposited to the credit of the general fund of the county. At any time
prior to the collection as provided for in this subsection, the town may pursue
any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon
including an action against the property owner and an action to foreclose its
lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface
interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or
judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the
town clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and
shall direct discharge of the lien.
      6.   The town does hereby designate the Dickson police department as its
administrative officers to carry out the duties of the town trustees specified
in this section. The property owner shall have the right of appeal to the town
trustees from any order of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing written notice of appeal with the town clerk within ten (10)
days after the administrative order is rendered.
      7.   For the purpose of this section, "dilapidated building" means a
structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary repairs or otherwise
is in state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent that said structure is a
hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public or a structure
which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of necessary repairs and is
considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health, safety and welfare of
the general public or a structure which has been boarded and secured as defined
herein for more than thirty six (36) consecutive months or a structure declared
by the police department or town trustees of the town of Dickson to constitute
a public nuisance. "Owner" means the owner of record as shown by the most
current tax rolls of the county treasurer.
      8.   The notice mailed to the property owner or mortgage holder shall
contain the following information:
         a.   The nature of the nuisance;
         b.   The location of the nuisance;
         c.   A statement of what is required to abate the nuisance;
         d.   The date, place, and time of the hearing;
         e.   A statement that the owner may appear or be represented and be
heard and present evidence on his behalf;
         f.   The consequences of an adverse finding by the police department;
         g.   Any further information the police department deems appropriate.
      9.   Nothing in the provisions of this section shall prevent the town
from abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its
police power to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the general public.
      10.   The officers, employees or agents of the town shall not be liable
for any damages or loss of property due to the removal of dilapidated buildings
performed pursuant to the provisions of this section or as otherwise prescribed
by law.
      11.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any properties
owned and used for agricultural purposes.
(Ord. 74, 9-28-2009)
8-503: BOARDING AND SECURING DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS:
   A.   11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112.1, and all subsequent amendments
thereto, is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out in length
herein, for the purpose of establishing procedures for the boarding and
securing of dilapidated buildings within the corporate limits of the town.
   B.   Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112.1, subsection C8, the
town trustees hereby designate the Dickson police department to carry out the
duties of the town trustees specified therein.
(Ord. 74, 9-28-2009)
PART 9
LICENSING AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES
SECTION:
9-101: License fee levied on certain occupations.
9-102: Ex-service persons.
9-103: Payment of license fee; issuance of license; expiration date.
9-104: Separate licenses required.
9-105: License to be displayed.
9-106: License may be revoked.
9-107: Transfer of license prohibited.
9-108: Duplicate license.
9-109: Penalty.
9-101: LICENSE FEE LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS.
   A.   A license fee may be levied in accordance with the state law on persons
engaging in, exercising, or pursuing any businesses, professions, trades,
occupations, or privileges in this town, for an annual fee as may be set by the
town board by ordinance, motion or resolution.
   B.   Before issuing a license to a peddler or solicitor, the town clerk-
treasurer may require of the applicant any reasonable information which he
deems desirable to protect the public interest.
   C.   In order to receive a license under this chapter, every person, firm or
corporation regulated pursuant to this section is required to possess a valid
and current state sales tax permit if such person, firm or corporation is a
vendor subject to collection of sales taxes under the sales tax code of the
town and state. A copy of this permit shall be provided by the applicant for a
license to the town clerk-treasurer prior to issuance of the town license.
State Law Reference: Municipal authority to tax and regulate occupations, 11
O.S. Sections 22-106, 22-107.
9-102: EX-SERVICE PERSONS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in other ordinances of the town shall be deemed
to require ex-service persons to secure a license or pay a license fee for
engaging in abusiness, occupation, or privilege when he is exempted therefrom
by statutes of the state or other provisions of law.
9-103: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION DATE.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue any
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license tax
is levied by Section
9-101 of this code or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
Upon making proper application to the town clerk-treasurer, the payment of the
license tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by
law or ordinance, the town clerk-treasurer shall issue a license therefor. Such
license taxes shall be credited to the general fund of the town.
   B.   Annual licenses shall expire on the 30th day of April of the year for
which they were issued. When an annual license is issued after May 1 for the
remainder of the year to a person just beginning to engage in, exercise, or
pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, the tax
collected shall be a fractional part of the annual tax equal to the fraction of
the year remaining, with a minimum as set by the town.
9-104: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person who engages in, exercises, or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license is required, at or from
more than one place in the town, or who engages in, exercises, or pursues more
than one such business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, shall pay
the fee, and secure a separate license, for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege.
9-105: LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his place of business or activity where a
person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he has no
particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and shall
display it to any person who requests to see it. In lieu of the manner of
displaying such licenses provided above, when licenses are required for
coinoperated music or amusement devices, vending machines, and similar devices
and equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device or
equipment in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible, and
shall be so placed or attached if the license so states on its face. It is
unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as required in this section.
9-106: LICENSE MAY BE REVOKED.
   Any license issued by the town to any person to engage in, exercise, or
pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, may be
revoked by the board of trustees after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for
either of the following reasons:
   1.   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege in such a manner that he has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by state law or local
ordinance; or
   2.   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
9-107: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED,
   The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in this town.
State Law Reference: License may not be transferred, 11 O.S. Section 22-107.
9-108: DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the town clerk-treasurer, on
application, shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the
duplicate is issued, the holder shall make, and file with the town clerk-
treasurer an affidavit that the license has not been transferred, that it has
been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder,
and that, if believed lost, he has made diligent search for it and has been
unable to find it. The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the
town clerktreasurer, shall be set by the town board.
9-109: PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade, or occupation, or
exercises any privilege, for which a license is required by this chapter,
without a valid license as thereby required, or who shall violate any provision
of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in Section
1-108 of this code. Violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for
revocation or suspension of license granted.
CHAPTER 2
ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
9-201: Definitions.
9-202: License required.
9-203: Application.
9-204: License fee.
9-205: Transfer.
9-206: Going upon private residences.
9-201: DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
      1.   "Itinerant vendor" means and includes all persons, firms or
corporations, as well as their agents and employees who engage in the temporary
or transient business in the town of selling or offering for sale any goods or
merchandise, or exhibiting the same for sale or exhibiting the same for the
purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof and who for the purpose of
carrying on such business or conducting such exhibits thereof either hire,
rent, lease or occupy any room or space in any building, structure, other
enclosure, vacant lot or any other property whatever in the town in, through,
or from which any goods or merchandise may be sold, offered for sale, exhibited
for sale or exhibited for the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof;
      2.   "Temporary" as used in Paragraph 1 hereof means any such business
transacted or conducted in the town for which definite arrangements have not
been made for the hire, rental or lease of premises for at least one hundred
(100) days, in or upon which such business is to be operated or conducted; and
      3.   "Transient" as used in Paragraph 1 as used hereof means any such
business of any such itinerant vendor as may be operated or conducted by
persons, firms or corporations, or by their agents or employees who reside away
from the town or who have fixed places of business in places other than the
town or who move stocks of goods or merchandise or samples thereof into the
town with the purpose or intention of removing them, or the unsold portion
thereof, away from the town before the expiration of one hundred (100) days.
   Anyone engaged in interstate commerce or anyone upon which the provisions of
this chapter would impose a direct and unlawful burden on interstate commerce
may appeal to the judge of the municipal court for a determination of the
applicability of these provisions.
9-202: LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any itinerant vendor to sell, offer for sale, exhibit for
sale, or exhibit for the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof, any
goods or merchandise in the town without first obtaining a license as herein
provided for. The town clerktreasurer shall issue to any itinerant vendor a
license authorizing such itinerant vendor to sell, exhibit for sale, offer for
sale, or exhibit for the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof in the
town his goods or merchandise only after such itinerant vendor shall have fully
complied with all provisions of this chapter and shall have paid the license
fees hereinafter provided, which sum shall be compensation to the town for the
services herein required of it and to enable the town to partially defray the
expenses of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
9-203: APPLICATION.
   The itinerant vendor shall make application to the town clerk-treasurer of
the town at least ten (10) days prior to the date of his contemplated sale or
exhibit to be held in the town which application shall be in the form of an
affidavit, stating the full name and address of the itinerant vendor, the
location of his or its principal office and place of business, the names and
addresses of its officers if it be a corporation, and the partnership name and
the names and addresses of all partners if such itinerant vendor be a firm. The
application thereof must be accompanied by:
      1.   A statement showing the kind and character of goods to be sold, or
merchandise to be sold, offered for sale or exhibited;
      2.   A certified copy of the articles of incorporation if the itinerant
vendor be a corporation, incorporated under the laws of this state;
      3.   A certified copy of its permit or authority to do business in the
state if the itinerant vendor be a corporation, incorporated under the laws of
some state other than Oklahoma; and
      4.   A bond in the sum of not less than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00),
executed by the itinerant vendor as principal, with some surety company
authorized to do business in the state as surety, which bond shall be payable
to the town for the use and benefit of any person or persons entitled thereto
and conditioned that the principal and surety will pay all damages to person,
or persons, caused by or arising from, or growing out of the wrongful or
illegal conduct of the itinerant vendor while conducting the sale or exhibit in
the town. The bond shall remain in full force and effect for the entire
duration of the license permit as provided herein, and two (2) years
thereafter.
9-204: LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for itinerant vendor shall be as set by the board of
trustees.
9-205: TRANSFER.
   The license permit provided for herein shall not be transferable nor give
authority to more than one person to conduct a business as an itinerant vendor,
but any persons having obtained such license may have the assistance of one or
more persons in conducting the business.
9-206: GOING UPON PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
   A.   In the exercise of the authority conferred upon the town by state law,
the practicve of going to, in or upon the premises of any private residence in
the town by door-to-door salespersons, solicitors, peddlers and order takers,
without the express consent, request or invitation of the owner or the occupant
of such private residence, for the purpose of soliciting orders for the
purchase or for the sale of goods, wares, or publications or merchandise of any
description, or the purpose of peddling, or hawking the same, or for the
purpose of soliciting subscriptions thereto, is hereby prohibited.
   B.   This section shall not apply to sales persons, solicitators, peddlers
or order takers representing sales or local nonprofit or charitable
organizations, nor to the sale or soliciting of any order for the sale of milk,
dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs or other farm and garden produce so
far as the sale of the commodities named in this section is authorized by law.
   C.   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be punishable as
misdemeanor against the town. Any person convicted of violating any provisions
of this section shall be fined as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
State Law Reference: Authority to regulate by town, 11 O.S. Section 22-106;
state licensing of itinerants, 47 O.S. Section 22-106; state licensing of
itinerants, 47 O.S. Section 421; exemption for veterans, 72 O.S. Section 1.
CHAPTER 3
BODY PIERCING AND TATTOOING
SECTION:
9-301: Compliance With State Law
9-302: Permit Required
9-303: Location Of Business
9-304: Definitions
9-301: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
   Persons performing or offering to perform body piercing or tattooing within
the town limits of Dickson shall comply with 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 842,
as now codified or as may be later amended or renumbered.
(Ord. 71, 8-25-2008)
9-302: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   Permit shall be required for body piercing and/or tattooing shop. Persons
desiring to conduct body piercing and tattooing services within the town of
Dickson shall make application with the town clerk, providing such applicant's
name, address, age, and shall further be accompanied by a copy of such
applicant's state license authorizing such services to be performed by such
applicant. The town of Dickson business license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) annually. The town of Dickson business license shall only be valid so
long as the applicant's state license is valid and current.
(Ord. 71, 8-25-2008)
9-303: LOCATION OF BUSINESS:
   All body piercing and tattooing shall only be performed at business
locations in approved commercial zoning districts.
(Ord. 71, 8-25-2008)
9-304: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and definitions shall
have the meaning given herein:
   BODY PIERCING: The procedure in which an opening is created in the human
body for the sole purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration, except ear
piercing.
   TATTOOING: The practice of producing an indelible mark or figure on the
human body by scarring or inserting a pigment under the skin using needles,
scalpels, or other related equipment, excepting medical micropigmentation
performed pursuant to the medical micropigmentation act.
(Ord. 71, 8-25-2008)
PART 10
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES IN GENERAL
SECTION:
10-101: Attempts to commit an offense.
10-102: Aiding in an offense.
10-101: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
10-102: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-201: Petit larceny prohibited.
10-202: Injuring automobiles and other vehicles.
10-203: Destroying or injuring buildings and other property.
10-204: Placing signs on property of another.
10-205: Throwing or shooting at persons or property.
10-206: Tampering with or damaging public utilities.
10-207: Unlawful intrusion upon land.
10-208: Illegal entrance.
10-209: Throwing advertising on street, prohibited.
10-210: Throwing injurious substances.
10-211: Injury to plants and trees.
10-212: Public streets and trees.
10-213: Trespass prohibited.
10-214: Parking on property of another.
10-215: Interference with fire hydrants.
10-201: PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED.
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not exceeding
Fifty Dollars ($50.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to
deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property
from the ''person" of another.
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
State Law Reference: Petit larceny defined, 21 O.S. Sections 1704, 1706.
10-202: INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, loiter in, or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging
to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
10-203: DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use.
10-204: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
10-205: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely
to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot
any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric
light or other property of another (whether public or private), except in case
where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property.
10-206: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to consume or use the gas,
water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other way so
as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to damage,
molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of
any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system.
10-207: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the town, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
10-208: ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure
is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or any
notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. It is
unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another after having been
given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or person in charge.
Cross Reference: See also trespass, Section
10-213  of this code.
10-209: THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET, PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter.
Cross Reference: For provision prohibiting placing signs on property of another
without consent, etc., see Section
10-204  of this code.
10-210: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive
or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine,
with intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal.
10-211: INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES.
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut, puli,
pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the town, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground; any
person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense.
10-212: PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the town;
      2.   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
      3.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the town;
      4.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the town; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      5.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the town inspector so to do.
   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under the
supervision of the street superintendent or town engineer.
10-213: TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall be defined
as follows:
      1.   "Public property" means that property which is dedicated to public
use and over which the federal, state or municipal government or any
subdivision thereof exercises control;
      2.   "Private property" means any property other than public property;
and
      3.   "Trespass" means each and every actual entry upon the premises of an
owner or other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express
or the implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
Trespass shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the
owner, or the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful
possession of the premises. Trespass shall also be defined as the act of
remaining on private property at any time other than during posted hours of
business operation after having been directed to vacate such premises by a
police officer. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the
owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises nor shall the
provisions of this sentence apply unless hours of business operations are
posted upon such premises. Trespass shall also be defined as the act of
returning to private property before the posted time of opening for business
operation on the next business day after having been directed to vacate such
premises under the terms of this subsection.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property.
Cross Reference: For provisions on illegal entrance, see Section
10-208  of this code.
10-214: PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance.
10-215: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person except one duly authorized by the town
utility personnel or a member of the fire department to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire
hydrant or stop cock belonging to the town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant by
placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any other
manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
10-301: Disturbing The Peace
10-302: Insulting Signs, Literature Or Language
10-303: Fireworks Regulated
10-304: Storing Or Keeping Explosives
10-305: Carrying Weapons; Exceptions
10-306: Reckless Conduct
10-307: Discharging Firearms; Exceptions
10-308: Loud Noise Or Music Prohibited; Amplified Sound
10-301: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of this section.
   B.   "Disturbing the peace" is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or not
at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      9.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      10.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(1987 Code)
10-302: INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the town to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the town, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or insulting language or
literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(1987 Code)
10-303: FIREWORKS REGULATED:
   A.   Purpose 1
: The purpose and intent of this section is to establish orderly sale, use and
storage of fireworks, to specify conditions of sales and licensing provisions,
to prohibit certain fireworks and to establish penalties for violations.
   B.   General Regulations: The board of trustees does hereby permit the sale,
use, discharge and possession of fireworks in the Dickson town limits. The town
of Dickson hereby incorporates and adopts 68 Oklahoma Statutes 1621 through
1643 et seq.
      1.   File fireworks application, retail licenses and sales tax permit or
tax exempt permit with the Dickson town clerk to purchase a permit for the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Town permit, retail licenses, sales tax permit and copy of state
statutes must be posted at fireworks stands.
      3.   The Dickson town board of trustees has given the approval to waive
the permit fee to schools, churches and charitable organizations within the
town limits of Dickson (must have tax exempt permit).
      4.   No person shall offer fireworks for sale to residents of the town of
Dickson at retail before June 15 or after July 6 2
or the first Sunday after the July 4, whichever is later, and from December 15
until January 2 to residents and nonresidents of the state each calendar year.
      5.   The board of trustees has granted the right to the Dickson fire
chief, Dickson police chief and the Dickson town clerk to pull permits for:
         a.   Red Flag Days.
         b.   Burn ban.
         c.   Noncompliance to this section.
      6.   The board of trustees has deemed the appropriate time frame for
firework discharge will be from June 15 to July 6: from the hours of three
o'clock (3:00) P.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. December 31 twelve o’clock
(12:00) midnight to one o’clock (1:00) A.M.
   C.   Authority: Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as a
permit or authority for any person to sell, discharge or the use of fireworks
other than as stated in this section.
   D.   Fines For Violation 3
:
      1.   Discharging fireworks in violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Illegal sale, violation of licensing provision, false labeling, or
any other violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), ninety (90) days' imprisonment in the county
jail, or both. In the event of a second conviction, the licenses shall be
revoked for a period of eighteen (18) months. Each violation of this section
shall constitute a separate offense. No other person shall be granted a license
to operate in the same location during the period of a revoked license.
(Ord. 64, 4-24-2006, eff. 6-1-2006; amd. Ord. 94, 5-18-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 1621.
2 2. 68 OS § 1623(e).
3 1. 68 OS §1628.
10-304: STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES:
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance of any kind without having first complied with the laws of the state
for the purpose of selling, storing or keeping such items.
(1987 Code)
10-305: CARRYING WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS 1
:
   It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his person
any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife,
spring type knife, metal knuckle, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
firearm except when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted by state
law.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 21 OS §1289 et seq.
10-306: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in
his possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of
creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great
bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety
of another person.
(1987 Code)
10-307: DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS 1
:
   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the town except when
doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by state law or
ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the town.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-205  of this part.
10-308: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED; AMPLIFIED SOUND:
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part
of the town by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle, or any other device,
with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise or
words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from playing
chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST THE HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
SECTION:
10-401: Public Intoxication And Drinking Prohibited
10-402: Possession; Transportation Of Intoxicating And Nonintoxicating
Beverages
10-403: Intoxicating Liquors
10-404: Drugs And Drug Paraphernalia
10-405: Prostitution
10-406: Disorderly House
10-407: Maintaining Or Leasing A Disorderly House
10-408: Residents And Visitors To Disorderly House
10-409: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
10-410: Definitions; Obscenity Regulations
10-411: Prohibited Obscene Conduct
10-412: Vagrancy Defined For Specific Acts, Offenses
10-413: Curfew For Juveniles
10-413.1: Tobacco Products And Minors
10-414: Sleeping In Public
10-415: Begging Prohibited
10-416: Gambling Prohibited
10-417: Being About Place Where Gambling Is Going On
10-418: Harmful Deception
10-419: False Or Bogus Checks
10-420: Swindling Unlawful
10-401: PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, or other public place in the town in a state of intoxication.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, a "state of intoxication" means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating,
nonintoxicating, spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or of any narcotic or
drug, to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full physical or
mental power, or in which a person is a danger to himself or others.
(1987 Code)
10-402: POSSESSION; TRANSPORTATION OF INTOXICATING AND NONINTOXICATING
BEVERAGES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
be in possession of any intoxicating or nonintoxicating alcoholic beverage
while such person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public
place within the town limits.
   B.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating beverage except in the original container which shall not have
been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed
unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear
trunk or compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station
wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
   D.   For the purpose of this section "intoxicating beverage" and
"nonintoxicating beverage" shall be as defined in sections 3-101 and 3-201 et
seq., of this code.
(1987 Code)
10-403: INTOXICATING LIQUORS:
   A.   It is unlawful:
      1.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind
except as permitted by law;
      2.   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law, or to transport
or in any manner convey from place to place in the town any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law;
      3.   To loiter in a place where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      4.   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law.
(1987 Code)
10-404: DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Purpose Of Amendment: The intent of this amendment is to conform the
penalty and prohibition provisions of Town of Dickson Code of Ordinances to
correspond with the rules prescribed by passage of State Question 788 now
codified as 63 Okla. St. §420A et. seq. Under the state law the following
regulations pertaining to marijuana use and possession are now in effect:
      1.   A person in possession of a state issued medical marijuana license
shall be able to:
         a.   Consume marijuana legally;
         b.   Legally possess up the three (3) ounces of marijuana on their
person;
         c.   Legally possess six (6) mature marijuana plants;
         d.   Legally possess six (6) seedling plants;
         e.   Legally possess one (1) ounce of concentrated marijuana;
         f.   Legally possess seventy-two (72) ounces of edible marijuana; and
         g.   Legally possess up to eight (8) ounces of marijuana at their
residence.
      2.   Possession of up to one and one-half (1.5) ounces of marijuana by
persons who can state a medical condition, but not in possession of a state
issued medical marijuana license shall constitute a misdemeanor offense with a
fine not to exceed four hundred dollars ($400.00).
   B.   Definitions: The definitions shall be the same as those used by the
State of Oklahoma which can be found in 63 Okla. St. § 2-101 et seq. and 63
Okla. St. §420A et. seq., as amended from time to time.
   C.   Offenses: It shall be a violation of state law and the ordinances of
the Town of Dickson to, among other things:
 
               Except as specifically authorized by 63 Okla. St. §420A et. seq., it shall be
               unlawful to sell, use, possess or purchase narcotic drugs, narcotic drug
DRUG:          preparations, barbiturates, amphetamines or marijuana in violation of the laws
               and statutes of the state. Every person convicted of violating this section
               shall be punished by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus court
               costs except as provided in State Question 788.
               The use, possession, distribution, and manufacture of drug paraphernalia are
               declared hazardous and detrimental to public health and well being of the
               citizens of the town. No person shall use or possess drug paraphernalia to
               plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
PARAPHERNALIA: produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
               conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
               controlled dangerous substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
               Dangerous Substances Act except as specifically authorized by 63 Okla. St.
               §420A et. seq. Every person convicted of violating this section shall be
               punished by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus court costs.
               It shall be unlawful to disturb the peace of any person while intoxicated by
               any cause including by deliberately smelling, inhaling, breathing, drinking or
               otherwise consuming any compound, liquid, chemical, narcotic, drug, or any
               other substance or chemical containing any ketones, aldehydes, organic
               acetones, ether, or chlorinated hydrocarbons such as gasoline, glue,
               fingernail polish, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope, or any other substance or
INHALANTS:     combination thereof containing solvents releasing toxic vapors which can cause
               the conditions of intoxication, inebriation, excitement, elation,
               stupefaction, paralysis, irrationality, dulling of the brain or nervous
               system, or any other changing, distorting or disturbing of the eyesight,
               thinking process, judgement, balance or coordination of the person. Every
               person convicted of violating this section shall be punished by a fine of up
               to five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus court costs.
   D.   Exceptions: This provision shall not apply to any person who inhales,
breathes, or drinks, or otherwise consumes any of the substances specified
pursuant to the direction of any lawful prescription of a licensed medical
professional, nor to the consumption of intoxicating liquor or beer in a place
and manner as authorized by law.
   E.   State Jurisdiction: Any violation of this section that meets the
requirements to be filed as a felony offense in state court shall be filed in
state court.
(1987 Code; amd. Ord. 95, 10-26-2020)
10-405: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      6.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
in the limits of town.
   B.   For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply:
   LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
   PROSTITUTION: The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
   SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing,
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
(1987 Code)
10-406: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by which the peace,
comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the
people therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of this town or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(1987 Code)
10-407: MAINTAINING OR LEASING A DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping and
maintaining a disorderly house.
   B.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or otherwise
permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly house,
and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(1987 Code)
10-408: RESIDENTS AND VISITORS TO DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly
house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the town shall have
the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not by
circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or officers
in the discharge of their professional or official duties.
(1987 Code)
10-409: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
      2.   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
      3.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(1987 Code)
10-410: DEFINITIONS; OBSCENITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   The following terms when used in the chapter shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
   MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernible turgid state.
   OBSCENE: To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      A.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity,
or excretion;
      B.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by title 21 of the Oklahoma Statutes; and
      C.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining.
(1987 Code)
10-411: PROHIBITED OBSCENE CONDUCT:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material; or
      2.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal; or
      3.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      4.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         a.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         b.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
         c.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         d.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
   B.   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of section
10-410 of this chapter and of this section shall not apply to a projectionist,
assistant projectionist, usher or cashier provided such person has no financial
interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person is not acting as
director or manager of the theater.
(1987 Code)
10-412: VAGRANCY DEFINED FOR SPECIFIC ACTS, OFFENSES:
   A.   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town. For the
purposes of this section, a "vagrant" means any person who loiters or remains
in or wanders about, a public or private place for any of the following
purposes:
      1.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      2.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      3.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      4.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      5.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      6.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      7.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(1987 Code)
10-413: CURFEW FOR JUVENILES:
   A.   Definitions:
   CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of twenty one (21) years who is in loco
parentis to a school age child.
   GUARDIAN: Any person other than the parent who has legal guardianship of a
school age child or minor.
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a school age child.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, parking lot, highway, sidewalk, park,
playground or place to which the general public has access and a right to
resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place
shall include, but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern,
bowling alley, cafe, drugstore, parking lot, poolroom, pizza parlor, shopping
center, and any other place devoted to amusement or entertainment of the
general public. It shall also include the front or immediate area of the above.
   SCHOOL AGE CHILD OR MINOR: Any child over the age of five (5) years and
under the age of eighteen (18) years and who has not finished four (4) years of
high school. (Ord. 53, 8-18-2000, eff. 8-18-2000) !DEFEND!
   B.   Unlawful Activity:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any minor or child of school age to remain,
wander, stroll or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a
set destination in any motor vehicle in, about or upon any place in Dickson,
Oklahoma, during the hours of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Saturday; between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Sunday and between eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Sunday through Thursday, unless: (Ord. 67, 12-
17-2007)
         a.   The school age child is accompanied by a parent, guardian,
custodian or other adult person having custody or control of such school age
child;
         b.   The school age child is on an emergency errand or specific
business or activity directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care and custody of the school age child;
         c.   Where the presence of the school age child is connected with or
required by some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation; or
         d.   The school in which the school age child is enrolled is not in
session for that particular day. (Ord. 53, 8-18-2000, eff. 8-18-2000)
   C.   Knowingly Permit: (Rep. by Ord. 67, 12-17-2007)
   D.   Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian or
other adult person having custody or control of any minor child to suffer or
permit or by inefficient control to allow a minor or school age child to be on
any public place within Dickson, Oklahoma, during the hours that school is in
session. The provisions of this section shall not apply if:
      1.   The school age child is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian
or other adult person having custody or control of such school age child;
      2.   The school age child is on an emergency errand or specific business
or activity directed or permitted by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the school age child;
      3.   Where the presence of the school age child is connected with or
required by some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation; or
      4.   The school in which the school age child is enrolled is not in
session for that day. (Ord. 53, 8-18-2000, eff. 8-18-2000)
   E.   Violation; Parent Or Guardian: Any parent, guardian, or custodian of a
school age child who violates any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of offenses, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of
one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   F.   Violation; School Age Child: Any school age child who violates any
provision of this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00). Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 67, 12-17-2007)
10-413.1: TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND MINORS:
   A.   Definitions:
   MINOR: Any person between the age of sixteen (16) years and eighteen (18)
years.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Cigarettes, cigarette paper, cigars,
snuff, chewing tobacco, or any other form of tobacco product.
   B.   Prohibitions; Penalty:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for a
person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase, receive, or have in
his/her possession any tobacco product, including, but not limited to,
cigarettes, cigarette papers, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, or
any other form of tobacco product within the corporate limits of Dickson,
Oklahoma.
      2.   Any minor who purchases, receives, or has in his or her possession
any tobacco product as defined herein shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and
upon conviction thereof in the municipal court of Dickson, Oklahoma, shall be
liable for a fine of not more than twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus
applicable court costs.
      3.   Any male or female under the age of sixteen (16) years, who shall
have been arrested by any peace officer in Dickson, Oklahoma, for the offense
of unlawful possession of any tobacco product, as defined herein, shall not be
prosecuted under this section, but in lieu thereof, upon proof of age, shall be
certified by the municipal judge of Dickson, Oklahoma, to the proper juvenile
authorities of the district court of Carter County, Oklahoma, for such action
as those officials deem just and proper.
      4.   This section shall not apply to any person employed in any grocery
or convenience store, who as a part of his/her regular duties of employment,
possesses tobacco products for the limited purposes of display, inventorying,
sacking or sale.
(Ord. 54, 11-16-2000, eff. 11-16-2000)
10-414: SLEEPING IN PUBLIC:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., to sleep on any street, in any other
public place, or on any property of another without the express or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of any
public or private school or other public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier.
(1987 Code)
10-415: BEGGING PROHIBITED:
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
(1987 Code)
10-416: GAMBLING PROHIBITED 1
:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      1.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      2.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      3.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      4.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
   B.   It is unlawful and an offence against the town for any person to play
any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein the
element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks or
any other representatives of value.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §22-108.
10-417: BEING ABOUT PLACE WHERE GAMBLING IS GOING ON:
   It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity where a
person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot
machine or other device, or otherwise.
(1987 Code)
10-418: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1987 Code)
10-419: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain
or attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property
or valuable thing of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less by means of
any false or bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved
instrument or spurious coin. The term "false or bogus check" shall include
checks or orders given for money or property which are not honored on account
of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer
thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within thirty (30) days after same is
delivered and accepted.
(1987 Code)
10-420: SWINDLING UNLAWFUL:
   It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other
fraudulent act.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
10-501: Assault and battery prohibited.
10-501: ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED.
   A.   An assault is any intentional, wilful, or unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   B.   A battery is any intentional, wilful or unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with
another without consent.
   C.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the town. Any person committing an assault or an assault
and battery within the jurisdiction of the town, shall be guilty of an offense.
CHAPTER 6
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
10-601: Resisting an officer.
10-602: Refusing or failing to assist an officer.
10-603: Assault or battery upon police or other law officer.
10-604: Rescuing prisoners.
10-605: Escape of prisoners.
10-606: Impersonating an officer or employee.
10-607: False alarms.
10-608: False representation to an officer.
10-609: Removal of barricades.
10-610: Resisting public officials.
10-601: RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   A.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with a police officer or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his official duties
within the limits of the town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to assist
such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an arrest
or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or in front
of an approaching officer.
   C.   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   D.   The words "obstruction of" shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include;
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer.
10-602: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   A.   An officer of the town making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons
to assist him in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such
riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so.
10-603: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his duties.
10-604: RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of the same or from the
town jail or other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner
in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
10-605: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in the town jail or other place of
confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgement, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody.
10-606: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the town, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to do so.
10-607: FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or police
department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the fire
department or police department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
10-608: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the town government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
10-609: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
10-610: RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
      1.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his official duties;
      2.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
      3.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive
or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties.
CHAPTER 7
PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-701: General penalties.
10-701: GENERAL PENALTIES.
   Any violation of the provisions of this part is punishable as provided in
Section
1-108 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
ROAD AND HIGHWAY OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
10-801: Amend 69 Oklahoma Statutes, 2001, Section 1213
10-801: AMEND 69 OKLAHOMA STATUTES, 2001, SECTION 1213:
   69 Oklahoma Statutes, 2001, section 1213 is amended to read as follows:
   Section 1213. (a)   Any person or persons who shall willfully or knowingly
obstruct or damage any public road or highway by obstructing the side or cross
drain or ditches thereof, or by turning water upon such road or highway or
right-of-way, or by throwing or depositing brush, trees, stumps, logs, or any
refuse or debris whatsoever in the road or highway, or on the sides or in the
ditches thereof, or by fencing across or upon the right-of-way of the same, or
by planting any hedge within the line established for such road or highway, or
by changing the location thereof, or shall obstruct said road, highway or
drains in any other manner whatsoever,
   except for gating of certain roadways as permitted by section 12-803 of this
code; however, any preexisting roadway dedicated for highway use shall not be
gated or obstructed in any way, or, except as provided in subsection (b) of
this section, any person or persons who shall willfully or knowingly deface,
damage, destroy or remove any traffic-control device, road sign, signboard,
guide sign or signpost shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b)   If any person or persons willfully or knowingly defaces, damages,
destroys or removes any traffic control device, road sign, signboard, guide
sign or signpost and such action results in personal injury to or death of any
person, the person or persons responsible for such action shall be guilty of a
felony punishable by imprisonment in the custody of the department of
corrections for not more than two (2) years, or by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both such fine and imprisonment. Notice of
this provision shall be placed in the manual provided by the department of
public safety which manual is issued for purpose of passing driving privilege.
   (c) The governing body who finds any road or highway obstructed as above
specified shall notify the person violating the provisions of this section,
verbally or in writing, to remove such obstruction forthwith, and if such
person does not remove the obstruction within ten (10) days after notified, he
shall pay the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each and every day after the
tenth day such obstruction is maintained or permitted to remain, such fine to
be recovered by suit brought by the governing body in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 82, 12-19-2016)
PART 11
PARKS, RECREATION AND CEMETERY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-101: Board of trustees to make rules for recreational facilities
11-102: Fees to be determined.
11-103: Penalty.
11-101: BOARD OF TRUSTEES TO MAKE RULES FOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES;
   The board of trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce
such rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or
expedient in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities
owned or operated by the town.
11-102: FEES TO BE DETERMINED.
   The town shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the town.
11-103: PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational
facilities without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated
by the board of trustees in connection therewith. Anyone violating any of the
rules and regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an
offense, and on conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in Section 1-
1 OS of this code.
CHAPTER 2
(Reserved)
PART 12
PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-201: Citation
12-202: Purpose
12-203: Nature And Application Of Zoning
12-204: Regulation Of Use
12-205: Zoning Districts; Zoning Map
12-206: Interpretation Of Words And Terms
12-207: Future Zoning Classifications
12-201: CITATION:
   This part, pursuant to authority granted by the Legislature of the State of
Oklahoma in 11 Oklahoma Statutes, article XLIII, sections 43-101 through 43-
109, and article XLIV, sections 44-101, 44-102, and 44-104 through 44-110,
shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF DICKSON and may be cited
as such.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-202: PURPOSE:
   The regulations contained herein are necessary to encourage the most
appropriate uses of land; to maintain and stabilize the value of property; to
reduce fire hazards and improve public safety and safeguard the public health;
to decrease traffic congestion and its accompanying hazards; to prevent undue
concentration of population; and to create a comprehensive and stable pattern
of land uses upon which to plan for transportation, water supply, sewerage,
schools, parks, public utilities, and other facilities. In interpreting and
applying the provisions of this part, they shall be held to the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-203: NATURE AND APPLICATION OF ZONING:
   This part classifies and regulates the lands, buildings, and structures
within the Town limits of the Town of Dickson, State of Oklahoma, as
hereinafter set forth. The regulations contained herein are necessary to
promote the health, safety, convenience, and welfare of the inhabitants by
dividing the Town into zones and regulating therein the use of the land and the
use and size of buildings, the size of yards and open spaces, density of
population and location of buildings.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-204: REGULATION OF USE:
   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, no land shall be used and no
building, structure, or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved,
altered, enlarged, or rebuilt which is designed, arranged, or intended to be
used or maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in accordance with
the requirements established in the district in which such lands, buildings,
structure, or improvements are located, and in accordance with the provisions
contained relating to any or all districts.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-205: ZONING DISTRICTS; ZONING MAP:
   The Town of Dickson is hereby divided into zones as shown on a certain
zoning map, dated January 4, 2010, which is filed with the Town Clerk. The
official zoning map, as amended and all explanatory materials thereto are
hereby made a part of this part by reference.
   Zoning districts in Dickson shall be designated as follows:
Agricultural:
 A-1 General Agricultural
Residential:
 R-1 Single-Family District
 R-2 Multiple-Family District
 RMH-1 Mobile Home Park
Commercial:
 C-1 Neighborhood Stores, Small Businesses
 C-2 Shopping Centers, Large Stores
 C-3 Commercial Highway and Commercial Recreation District
Manufacturing and industrial:
 M-1 Manufacturing, Industrial, Fabricating and Assembling
Public and religious property:
 P-1 Public and Religious Property (Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
 
   The above districts may be modified, changed, or altered to provide for
growth of the Town when deemed necessary by the Dickson Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010; amd. Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
12-206: INTERPRETATION OF WORDS AND TERMS:
   Unless otherwise specifically stipulated or required, the definitions of the
words and phrases as used in the interpretation and construction of this part
shall be the most commonly accepted in similar types of zoning ordinances as
used in local areas or the common accepted terms and definition in the English
language.
   For the purpose of these regulations, the words used in the present tense
shall include the future tense; words in the singular number shall include the
plural and words in plural number include the singular, except where the
natural construction of the writing indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is
mandatory and not directory.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-207: FUTURE ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS:
   The current Dickson zoning map reflects nine (9) classifications. Four (4)
of these classifications are reserved for future use in planning of the
community at a later date. Only the classifications shown in section 12-205 of
this chapter will be used at the time of effective date of passage hereof.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-301: A-1 General Agricultural District
12-302: R-1 Single-Family District
12-303: R-2 Multiple-Family District
12-304: RMH-1 Mobile Home Park; Manufactured Homes, Mobile Homes And Trailer
Houses
12-305: C-1 Neighborhood Stores, Small Businesses District
12-306: C-2 Shopping Centers, Large Stores District
12-307: C-3 Commercial Highway And Commercial Recreation District
12-308: M-1 Manufacturing, Industrial, Fabricating And Assembling District
12-309: P-1 Public And Religious Property District
12-301: A-1 GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
   This zoning district is intended to provide an area primarily for
agricultural endeavors, such as farming, growing crops or raising cattle on
property of five (5) or more acres, or the extraction of various products such
as oil, gas, minerals, rock, sand or gravel from the land.
   The rural nature and low density of population in this district requires a
minimum of a fifty foot (50') setback of buildings from edge of streets, roads,
or highways. It is therefore the purpose of this district to encourage and
protect such uses from urbanization until such are warranted and the
appropriate change in district classification is made.
   Property and buildings in an A-1 general agricultural district may be used
for the following purposes:
      All agricultural land uses, including buildings, barns, sheds or other
farm buildings.
      Freestanding mobile home.
      Planting and harvesting crops.
      Raising farm animals.
      Single-family residence.
   The drilling for oil, natural gas, extraction of sand, gravels, or minerals
and transportation may be permitted, provided the energy operation is conducted
in accordance with provisions of municipal and state laws, including all
statutes and/or regulations involving environmental quality.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-302: R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT:
   A.   Description And Uses: This is the most restrictive residential
district. The principal use of the land in an R-1 zoning district is for
single-family dwellings and related uses. The objective is to provide basic
elements of a balanced and attractive residential area. The total area of any
land in this zoning district shall be less than five (5) acres. This area is
intended to be defined and protected from encroachment of uses not performing a
function appropriate to a residential environment. Internal stability,
attractiveness, order, and efficiency are encouraged by providing adequate
light, air, and open spaces for any dwelling or residence in the district.
   The property and any building for an R-1 single-family district in Dickson,
Oklahoma, shall only be used for the following purposes:
      Detached one-family dwelling with accessory buildings, including a
private garage.
      General purpose farms and gardens. The raising of livestock for private
consumption or show purposes and the training of horses for profit or pleasure
shall be allowed. This usage shall provide no objectionable odors or nuisance,
which offend or adversely affect the quality of life of neighbors and persons
in the district.
      Mobile home must be compatible with other residential improvements to the
neighborhood as to both value and external appearance. Any mobile home placed
in an R-1 district must abide by section
5-104 of this code.
   B.   Area Regulations: All buildings in this zoning district shall be set
back from the street or right of way lines to comply with the following yard
requirements:
      1.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be fifty feet (50') from
the front of a residence house to the street line.
      2.   The side yard for a one-story residence shall be not less than
fifteen feet (15') on one side and the sum total of both sides shall be thirty
feet (30') or more from the house to a property line.
      3.   Accessory buildings, garages or unattached buildings when located
more than eighty feet (80') from a front lot line may be located not less than
five feet (5') from any property line.
      4.   If more than twenty five percent (25%) of all improved buildings
between two (2) intersections of street have an average setback line of more
than fifty feet (50'), then no building shall be erected closer than the
minimum setback as established by the existing building.
      5.   A dwelling or accessory building located on a corner lot or street
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from the side street.
      6.   There shall be not less than twenty feet (20') or twenty percent
(20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever is smaller for the purpose of a rear
yard.
      7.   The lot width shall be a minimum of eighty five feet (85') at the
front building line and such lot shall abut a street for a distance of more
than thirty five feet (35').
      8.   A one-family dwelling shall be located on a lot area of not less
than five thousand (5,000) square feet. Where a lot has less area than these
requirements and all of the boundary lines of that lot touch lands under other
ownership on the effective date of these regulations, then that particular lot
may be used for described uses permitted by this section.
      9.   No dwelling or building shall exceed three (3) stories from ground
level.
      10.   The coverage from the main and accessory buildings shall not cover
more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot area on interior lots, and not more
than thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area on corner lots.
      11.   The lot area shall always be of sufficient size to provide off
street parking for two (2) automobiles.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-303: R-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT:
   A.   Description And Uses: This residential district is established to
provide both low and moderate population density to permit multiple-family
dwellings, apartments, and townhouses. The density and yard spaces shall be
arranged to provide general compatibility with the uses as found in R-1 single-
family districts. Therefore, this classification may reasonably be placed in
locations that are adjacent to the single-family areas or may be used as a
transitional zone. The intent is to further discourage any uses in this
district which would generate excessive traffic or create congestion on
neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic that serves the residents in
the area. (Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
   The property and buildings for an R-2 multiple-family district shall only be
used for the following purposes:
      Any uses as permitted in the R-1 single-family district.
      Rooming house or boarding house (but not motels, hotels or mobile homes).
      Townhouse or apartments not to exceed eight (8) units per building and
duplex not to exceed a two-unit dwelling.
      Two-family dwellings or garage apartment.
      Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses
when located on the same lot. (Ord. 76, 1-4-2010; amd. Ord. 81, 1-27-2014)
   B.   Area Regulations: The area regulations for R-2 multiple-family district
are the same as R-1 single-family regulations, except the minimum size of any
lot in this district shall be forty three thousand five hundred sixty feet
(43,560') and when a garage apartment is located with a single-family dwelling
on the same lot, the area shall be a minimum of forty three thousand eight
hundred sixty feet (43,860') and the sum of both side yards shall be not less
than thirty feet (30').
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-304: RMH-1 MOBILE HOME PARK; MANUFACTURED HOMES, MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILER
HOUSES:
   A.   Mobile Home And Manufactured Home Parks:
      1.   Existing property under twenty (20) acres which has three (3) or
more mobile homes will be grandfathered in (which will not require moving any
homes to comply with this section at date approved).
      2.   Property grandfathered in under this section must follow current
town ordinances prior to the addition or replacement of existing mobile homes
in the future.
      3.   The construction, installation, or creation of a mobile home park or
manufactured home park shall not be less than twenty (20) acres and will
require rezoning of property. It is the intention of the town of Dickson that a
mobile home park or manufactured home park shall accommodate primarily
permanent occupants.
      4.   The applicant must provide documentation of the proposed park by how
it will be platted, streets designated, and a plan for installation of
utilities must be established before the board would consider a public hearing
for rezoning of property. Mobile homes within a mobile home park shall not be
placed on lots or spaces smaller than 2.5 acres per dwelling unit, regardless
of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations. Residents of a
manufactured/mobile home park do not usually own the land whereon their
dwelling unit is sited; they may or may not own the dwelling unit. All
currently existing mobile home parks located within the town of Dickson are
included in the definition.
      5.   Mobile homes, trailer houses or manufactured homes set in the town
of Dickson including a mobile home park must comply with part 5, "Building
Regulations And Codes", of this code.
      6.   Mobile homes and manufactured homes designated for residential usage
within a manufactured/mobile home park located in the town limits of Dickson,
Oklahoma, may not be used for any commercial or business purpose.
      7.   It is hereby declared unlawful, and an offense against the
ordinances of the town to place, locate, or park more than one mobile home, on
a temporary or permanent basis, on a residential lot or lots in the corporate
limits of the town if said residential lot or lots have metes and boundary
descriptions of fifty feet by one hundred forty feet (50' x 140') or less. This
prohibition shall not apply to recreational vehicles, vacation or camping
trailers, which are placed for a temporary period not to exceed thirty (30)
days, same being motorized vehicles utilized for camping, traveling, and
recreational purposes of renting or leasing pads or lots within a mobile home
park for the purpose of placing multiple units of mobile homes.
      8.   The above prohibition shall specifically apply to a mobile home,
trailer house or manufactured home, which are hereby defined as permanent
housing structures, capable of being moved or transported on a public roadway
or highway, and which are designed for permanent habitation by human beings as
a residence or place of abode:
         a.   Manufactured Home: A dwelling unit constructed to be towed on its
own chassis and capable of connection to utilities for year round occupancy
fabricated on or after 1976, in an off site manufacturing facility for
installation or assembly at the building site as a permanent structure with
transport features removed, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in
compliance with the national manufactured housing construction and safety
standards act, 42 USC section 5401 et seq.
         b.   Mobile Home: A structure of vehicular design, designed or
manufactured for human occupancy, built on a chassis, designed to be moved from
one site to another, and to be used with or without a permanent foundation,
whether or not the wheels have been attached thereto or removed, and which was
built prior to the enacting of the national manufactured housing construction
and safety standards act, 42 USC section 5401 et seq., or before 1976.
      9.   Any mobile home park shall be compatible with other residential
improvements in the neighborhood as to both value and exterior appearances. The
property and buildings for an RMH-1 mobile home park shall only be used for the
following purposes:
         A freestanding manufactured/mobile home.
         Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above use
when located on same lot.
   B.   Area Regulations:
      1.   All mobile homes, trailer houses or manufactured homes placed or
located in Dickson, Oklahoma, shall be serviced for utility services by the
town, if available, and if not available, sanitation services, trash pick up,
electricity, natural gas, and any other utility service which is ordinarily
used to provide habitable dwellings.
      2.   It is further declared unlawful for any owner, lessee, renter, or
occupant of a mobile home, trailer house or manufactured house to secure or
receive any municipal services, including water, trash removal, sewer service,
electrical power, or natural gas supplies, from any source other than the town,
or an alternative source approved by the citizens of Dickson or by the town
council, including, but not limited to, any device, apparatus or method whereby
an owner, lessee, renter, or occupant of a mobile home secures water,
electrical power, natural gas energy, or any other utility from a neighbor or
residence on an adjoining property or location.
      3.   There will be a business permit of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to
be paid to the town of Dickson. This fee shall be deemed "mobile home park
permit fee".
(Ord. 81, 1-27-2014)
12-305: C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD STORES, SMALL BUSINESSES DISTRICT:
   A.   Description And Uses: This commercial C-1 district is intended for a
unified grouping of one or more buildings of general retail shops, stores, or
service centers for personal services for the regular needs and convenience of
the people residing in the adjacent residential neighborhoods. The convenience
center should be developed as a unit with adequate off street parking.
   The property and building in the C-1 commercial, neighborhood stores, and
small businesses district may be used for the following purposes:
      Any use permitted in the R-1 single-family residential district
classifications.
      Retail stores and shops, which supply the regular and customary needs of
residents of the neighborhood and which are primarily for the public's
convenience such as grocery stores; meat markets; gas stations; garages for
repair of motor vehicles or machinery; dairy products or ice cream stores;
pharmacies; barbershops; beauty shops; childcare centers; dry goods stores;
newspaper, magazine and book stores; small restaurants seating less than one
hundred (100) customers; drive-in restaurants; and other similar types of
stores.
      Small convenience stores containing no less than five thousand (5,000)
square feet in building area.
      Accessory building and uses customarily incidental to above uses.
   B.   Area Regulations: The following requirements shall apply to C-
1 commercial neighborhood stores and small businesses district:
      1.   The front yard of all buildings in this district shall be set back
at least twenty five feet (25') from the street or right of way line of the
front building.
      2.   Side yards on the sides of lots adjoining a residential district
shall not be less than fifteen feet (15') to the particular lot or property
line.
      3.   Whenever the rear lot adjoins a residential district, a rear yard
shall be provided of not less than twenty feet (20') in area.
      4.   When any commercial building is to be serviced or supplied from the
rear of the building, there shall be an alleyway of not less than thirty feet
(30') in width provided.
      5.   The business shall provide adequate off street parking to
accommodate customers with sufficient spaces.
      6.   All driveways used for ingress and egress shall be at least twenty
feet (20') wide and preferably twenty five feet (25') wide.
      7.   For each structure there shall be a lot area of not less than five
thousand (5,000) square feet. Where a lot has an area less than these
requirements and all of the boundary lines of that lot touch lands under other
ownership on the effective date of these regulations, then that lot or parcel
of land may be used for the uses permitted by this section.
      8.   No building shall exceed three (3) stories in height from ground
level unless specifically approved by the Board of Trustees of the Town.
      9.   Multiple commercial buildings may be built with a common wall
located along with property lines of adjacent property within the district.
This wall shall be referred to as a "party wall" and no side yard will be
required between buildings with a party wall.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-306: C-2 SHOPPING CENTERS, LARGE STORES DISTRICT:
   A.   Description And Uses: This classification is established for principal
use of land offering accommodations, supplies, or services for certain
specialized uses such as large community shopping centers, large restaurants
seating more than one hundred (100) customers, motels, hotels, and the general
retail trade, with buildings containing more than five thousand (5,000) square
feet in area.
   Property and buildings in a C-2 Shopping Center, or Large Stores District
may be used for the following purposes:
      Any use permitted in the R-1 Single-Family Residential District
classification.
      Convenience stores, retail stores and shops less than one roof of a
building containing more than a total of five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      Shopping centers, multiple or combination stores such as department
stores, gas stations, motels, hotels, grocery stores, garages for repair of
auto-truck or machinery, professional offices, and large restaurants or drive-
ins seating more than one hundred (100) customers.
      Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to above uses.
   B.   Area Regulations: The area regulations and requirements for C-
2 Shopping Centers and Large Stores District are essentially the same
requirements as stated under C-1 Commercial, Neighborhood Stores, except that
if a yard on the side of a lot in this district adjoins a residential district,
then any building constructed on that lot shall be located more than twenty
five feet (25') from the property line.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-307: C-3 COMMERCIAL HIGHWAY AND COMMERCIAL RECREATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Description And Uses: This district is one of the most restrictive of
the commercial districts and is intended to be defined and protected from the
other districts and to provide a wide variety of uses not found in the other
districts.
      Because of the possible objectionable influences that may be created in
this district, it is necessary that the district be located carefully in
relation to other districts in the Town. Moreover, Commercial Highway and
Recreation District shall also provide such features as screening buffer zones
or setback strips between this district and other districts in the
Municipality.
      As the Town and community of Dickson grows, the need for a C-
3 classification will likely increase. When additional land is needed for the
C-3 classification, additional areas may be obtained from other classifications
or by rezoning. (Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
   Since this district is a very restrictive classification, any future growth
or changes must be made by the Dickson Board of Adjustments and/or the Dickson
Board of Trustees by ordinance, addressing special treatment and approaches for
each parcel of land based upon the guidelines as given below. This ordinance
must be enacted before any construction or work is performed on the project.
   A plan or sketch drawn to scale must be accompanied with any application for
administrative review and approval under this section. The plan or sketch shall
reflect proposed improvements and use of any building to be constructed
thereon. Further, parking areas and the location of all homes, businesses and
boundaries of the zoning district within three hundred feet (300') (C-1 small
business), one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') (C-3 kennel), one thousand
feet (1,000') (C-3 body piercing and tattoo) of boundary property lines from
all sides of proposed use of the property shall be clearly shown. The plan or
sketch shall reflect the names and addresses of all property owners or persons
in possession of real properties within the required feet area, and shall
clearly indicate the type of building, plumbing, water, sewer, and streets to
be constructed and the proposed uses of the property. "Property owners" in said
context shall include owners of real property, which adjoins or is contiguous
to the lands to be affected by the plan. Environmental issues shall be
addressed, including appropriate precautions to be taken to prevent excessive
sounds, noise, or odors to the adjoining landowners, before the Dickson Board
of Trustees will give any consideration.
   Prior to any consideration being given to any applicant under this section,
the Dickson Board of Trustees, must first satisfy themselves that adequate
written notice has been given to all persons within the three hundred foot
(300') area described in the preceding paragraph of any hearing or public
meeting wherein the plan and/or sketch, and the proposed use of the property
affected, shall be considered.
   The property and buildings for a C-3 Commercial Highway and Commercial
Recreation District shall only be used for the purposes described in the
subsequent paragraph after the Dickson Board of Trustees have studied each
location as to environmental concerns, including, but not limited to, noise,
odors, sounds, and effects of the proposed improvements and location with
reference to homes, agricultural lands, or businesses adjoining the proposed
location. Furthermore, the planned use shall be reviewed and that proposed use
and any potential use in the future shall receive the express approval of the
Dickson Board of Trustees and any other agency of State or local government
having jurisdiction thereof. In approving any plan or sketch, the Dickson Board
of Trustees of the Town may attach reasonable, specific restrictions or
conditions on approval, which are designed to protect the public health and
welfare. (Ord. 76, 1-4-2010; amd. Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
   The property and buildings for a C-3 Commercial District shall be used only
for the following purposes or other similar types of businesses:
      Automobile wrecking, junk or salvage yards.
      Body piercing and tattoo parlors.
      Bowling alley.
      Car, motorcycles or horse racing.
      Commercial kennels for cats or dogs.
      Drive-in restaurant or truck stop.
      Drive-in theater or movie theater.
      Feed grinding or sale barns.
      Liquor store, beer sales or tavern.
      Nightclub, dance hall or recreation center, private or public.
      Processing plant, meat or vegetable products.
      Skating rink, roller or ice.
      Small animal hospital or veterinary clinic. (Ord. 76, 1-4-2010; amd. Ord.
78, 9-26-2011)
   B.   Area Regulations:
      1.   A nightclub, restaurant, amusement center, recreation center, or
dance hall seating more than one hundred (100) customers shall be of fireproof
construction with walls of metal or masonry and containing floors of concrete.
The buildings shall be equipped with adequate sprinkler fire protection as
recommended by the National Board Of Fire Underwriters. One lighted exit with
an outside door shall be provided for each one hundred (100) customers or
people. Doors shall be constructed so that they may be opened from the inside
at all times and at no time shall those doors be barred or locked.
      The parking lot of such a structure shall be of sufficient size to
provide at least one parking space for every two (2) customers. The lot shall
be paved with concrete, asphalt or other standard parking lot construction
materials that will provide little dust. (Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
      No building under this section shall be located closer than two hundred
fifty feet (250') from the boundary of any residential district, school, church
or park. One residence or mobile home will be permitted on the property to be
used by the manager or security guard for living purposes only. Any building
located thereon shall be connected to water and sewer. A building and parking
lot under this section shall be enclosed with a six foot (6') high fence on at
least three (3) sides, primarily on the back and both sides for businesses.
Liquor stores, beer sale facilities or taverns shall be located more than fifty
feet (50') from the nearest residential zoning area. The area regulations shall
be the same as given under C-1 classifications. All operations shall be in
accordance with the Oklahoma Statutes and ordinances of the Town of Dickson.
Suitable parking and yard lighting shall be provided. (Ord. 76, 1-4-2010; amd.
Ord. 78, 9-26-2011)
      2.   Meat or vegetable processing plants will be permitted when the
Dickson Board of Trustees approve their locations. The area for such plants
shall be of sufficient size to conduct the business. No offensive or noxious
odor nor loud noises will be permitted in the conduct of said business that
will interfere with agricultural and residence districts. No feedlots will be
permitted. A plant shall be located more than one hundred feet (100') from the
nearest residence or dwelling. The County/State Health Department or Department
of Environmental Quality must approve an adequate sewer system. Sufficient off
street parking shall be provided for plant employees and customers. The area
regulations as given under C-1 Commercial shall apply unless stated above.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010; amd. Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
      3.   Skating rinks, bowling alleys, drive-in theaters or movie theaters
shall be located more than one hundred feet (100') from the nearest home or
more than one hundred feet (100') from the boundary of any residential or
agricultural districts.
      4.   Small animal hospitals, veterinary clinic, or dog and cat kennels
shall not be located closer than one hundred feet (100') from the nearest home
or boundary of residential or agricultural districts. The area requirements as
stated under C-1 Commercial shall apply, except as noted above.
      5.   Automobile, motorcycle, or horse racing will be permitted if a
suitable location can be found that will not interfere with the adjoining
agricultural, residential, or commercial districts. Consideration must be given
to the noise, pollution, odor, and traffic. A minimum consideration shall be
that such tracks for racing vehicles or animals shall be located at least one
thousand feet (1,000') from the nearest home. First consideration as to
location of such a facility will be given to the effect on agricultural
operations and residences. The second consideration will be given to business
or commercial usage. The last consideration will be given to recreation.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-308: M-1 MANUFACTURING, INDUSTRIAL, FABRICATING AND ASSEMBLING DISTRICT:
   A.   Description And Uses: The purpose of this district is to accommodate a
wide range of manufacturing, warehousing, wholesale, and other activities. The
M-1 Manufacturing District is intended to reserve the land especially for
industry location and operations on major streets or highways.
   Because of possible objectionable influences that may be created in this
district, it is necessary to locate these types of businesses carefully in
relation to other districts to provide such features as adequate buffer zones
or setback strips. Buffer zones and setback strips between this district make
it desirable that these types of businesses be separated from residential and
commercial districts wherever possible.
   Property and buildings in the M-1 Manufacturing, Industrial, Fabricating and
Assembling District may be used only for manufacturing, fabricating,
assembling, repairing, storing, cleaning, servicing, or testing the following
goods or materials:
      Apparel, clothing, dairy products, drugs, and pharmaceutical products,
electrical and acoustic products and components, medical laboratory supplies,
equipment and specialties, optical goods, radio, phonograph, television sets,
parts and testing.
      Food products (except fish, sauerkraut, vinegar, and yeast), furniture,
glass products, metal products, and utensils.
      Paper products, including boxes and containers.
      Trailers, tanks, carts, pipe yards, storage, steel, or metal products.
      Wood products, including boxes, containers and building materials.
   B.   Area Regulations:
      1.   All buildings in this district shall be set back from the front
street a minimum of twenty five feet (25'). No building shall be erected closer
than fifty feet (50') from any residential and commercial district.
      2.   Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall be performed
within a completely enclosed building and exposed sources of light shall be
carefully screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines.
      3.   No toxic or noxious matter, smoke, gas or odor or particulates shall
be emitted that are detectable beyond any boundary line of any district.
      4.   No vibrations, loud noises, or music shall be detectable by a person
beyond the zoning lot line of a business located in this district.
      5.   No activities involving storage, utilization or manufacturing of
materials; on the other hand, products that decompose by detonation will be
permitted. The manufacture of flammable materials that produce explosive vapors
or gases is strictly prohibited.
      6.   Adequate off street parking shall be provided for all workmen, plant
employees, visitors and customers. Driveways used for ingress and egress shall
range from thirty (30) to forty feet (40') in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      7.   The plant, building and grounds of any business located in this
district shall be kept in good repair and painted when needed so as to present
a pleasing and aesthetic appearance at all times.
      8.   A dwelling for use of a plant manager, caretaker or watchman will be
permitted. The plant and any dwelling must have adequate water and sewer
approved by the department of environmental quality of the state of Oklahoma or
any delegated agency or representative thereof.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-309: P-1 PUBLIC AND RELIGIOUS PROPERTY DISTRICT:
   A.   Description And Uses: This classification of property is established as
a district in which the principal use is for the benefit of the general public,
including schools, churches or religious organizations, nonprofit
organizations, and governmental or municipal use such as a municipal town hall
or meeting facility, fire station, public parks or cemetery. Any public
property, including county, state, or federal government is included in this
classification.
   Property and buildings in the P-1 district may be used only for the
following purposes:
      Cemeteries (not including pet cemeteries).
      County, state, or federally owned or leased buildings.
      Elementary and high schools, including playgrounds, athletic, and
extracurricular activities.
      Health clinic or hospital.
      Public parks and playgrounds.
      Religious activities and organizations, including churches and nonprofit
entities.
      School cafeteria or lunchroom.
      The town of Dickson fire stations, town hall, and any other municipal
building, including a senior citizens' facility or structure.
   B.   Area Regulations:
      1.   School buildings shall not be located closer than fifty feet (50')
from any property line of a residential district. They shall have adequate
parking for the students, educators, patrons, and school personnel. The play
area of any school shall be well lighted. The school shall have adequate water
and sewer facilities.
      2.   Parks in the municipality shall be well maintained with proper
facilities for the public such as water and sewer, picnic areas, tables,
swings, slides, tennis courts and playgrounds. Parks shall be well lighted at
night and policed for any criminal activity. No building shall be erected
closer than fifty feet (50') from the property line.
      3.   All public utilities and service uses, including electrical
substations, gas regulators or stations, telephone, water transmission or
metering, distribution equipment and equipment and structures, water reservoirs
or pumping stations or other such uses shall be adequately screened or shielded
from the side, rear or front property lines in such a manner to be attractive
and not be offensive to abutting properties. This regulation shall not apply to
electric, telegraph, or telephone poles for which no permit shall be required
under this part.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
CHAPTER 4
ADDITIONAL DISTRICT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-401: Walls, Fences And Hedges
12-402: Yards
12-403: Sight Triangle
12-404: Parking
12-405: Animals
12-406: Agricultural Zoning Districts
12-407: Illumination
12-408: Firearms
12-409: Fireworks
12-401: WALLS, FENCES AND HEDGES:
   Walls, fences, and hedges in a residential district may be permitted in any
required yard or along the edge of any yard, if no fence, wall, or hedge
located in front of a building shall exceed three feet (3') in height, and no
opaque (prohibiting see through) wall or fence shall exceed eight feet (8') in
height.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-402: YARDS:
   Where the dedicated street right of way is less than fifty feet (50'), the
depth of the front yard shall be measured at a starting point twenty five feet
(25') from the center of the street easement.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-403: SIGHT TRIANGLE:
   On any corner lot on which a front and side yard is required, no wall,
fence, sign, structure or any plant growth, which obstructs sight lines at
elevations between two feet (2') and six feet (6') above the crown of the
adjacent roadway shall be allowed. The improvements shall be placed or
maintained within a triangle formed by measuring from the point of intersection
of the front and exterior side lot lines a distance of thirty feet (30') along
said front and side lot lines and connecting the points so established for a
sight triangle on the area of the lot adjacent to the street intersection.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-404: PARKING:
   The land upon which any off street parking lot is located shall be
controlled or owned by the same entity which owns and controls the land on
which the principal use is located.
   The size of a parking space for one vehicle shall consist of a rectangular
area having dimensions of not less than ten feet (10') in width by twenty feet
(20') in length plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
   Whenever two (2) or more uses for parking facilities are located together in
a common building, shopping center, or other building complex, the parking
requirements may be complied with, by providing a permanent common parking
facility, which contains the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total
number of spaces provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual
requirements. Spaces provided for permanent residents of dwellings shall be
clearly designated and separated from spaces provided for employees, patrons,
visitors, customers, and service providers.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-405: ANIMALS:
   Dogs or cats may be kept at any dwelling provided they are kept as pets.
Care and control of such animals shall be exercised as needed by the owner so
as not to annoy any adjoining property owners.
   Any and all animals, including horses, mules, donkeys, ponies, cows, sheep,
goats, hogs, rabbits, chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, or other mammals or
fowl, if possession is allowed, shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   If any agency, including, but not limited to, the Carter County health
department or on the other hand, department of environmental quality determines
that there is a health hazard and/or a nuisance from any animal, it may make a
complaint before the board of trustees for the violation or to the Dickson
police department. Any persons who have a complaint voiced against them in this
regard shall be entitled to a hearing before the municipal court of Dickson or
the mayor and board of trustees before any adverse actions are taken. Notice of
such hearing shall be in the form of a citation from the Dickson police
department or by a notice from the Dickson town attorney. This provision shall
not abridge or restrict the right of any individual citizen or resident of the
town of Dickson to make a formal complaint under this section to the Dickson
police department.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-406: AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   The regulations for agricultural zoning districts in Dickson are intended to
allow low density development in a manner that will require minimal public
improvements and services. They are also intended to preserve the rural
agricultural nature of the area and to require minimal land use regulations.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-407: ILLUMINATION:
   The use of red, green or amber illuminations in connection with any sign
must be so located that it in no way creates a confusion with any official
traffic signal or on the other hand, may be interpreted by any motorist as a
traffic signaling device.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-408: FIREARMS:
   The use of any land or property of any zoning classification within the town
limits of Dickson shall not be used in any manner as a firearm, rifle, shotgun
or pistol practice range.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-409: FIREWORKS:
   The use of fireworks in the Dickson town limits must adhere to section
10-303 of this code.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND USES
SECTION:
12-501: Intent
12-501: INTENT:
   Within any zoning district in Dickson established by this part or by any
amendments thereto that might later be adopted there exist:
   A.   Lots or parcels;
   B.   Structures;
   C.   Uses of land and structures;
   D.   Characteristics of use;
the board of trustees is aware and hereby determines that many of the above
described properties were existing and therefore lawful before this part was
passed or amended by which should be prohibited, regulated, or restricted in
the future under the terms of this part or by future amendment. It is therefore
the intent of this part to permit these nonconformities to continue until they
are removed or cease to function, but not to encourage their renewal or
survival. It is further the intent of this part that nonconformities shall not
be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended. Furthermore, they shall not be used as
grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
   Nonconforming uses are declared by this part to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of a structure, a
nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of a structure and land in
combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this part by
attachment on a building or premises, or by addition of other uses, of a
nature, which would be prohibited generally in the district involved.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
CHAPTER 6
REZONING AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
12-601: General
12-602: Application For Rezoning
12-603: Public Hearing Before The Town Board Of Trustees
12-604: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission (Rep. by Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
12-605: Action By Town Board Of Trustees
12-606: Classification Of New Additions
12-601: GENERAL:
   This part may be amended by changing the boundaries of districts or by
changing any other provision thereof whenever the public necessity and
convenience and general welfare require such amendment or change.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-602: APPLICATION FOR REZONING:
   A.   An application for zoning amendment may be initiated by the Board of
Trustees or by an application filed by one or more owners of property.
   B.   Each application by a property owner shall be accompanied by a fifty
dollar ($50.00) fee, no part of which shall be returnable to the applicant.
   C.   An application for amendment by a property owner shall be accompanied
by a Purpose for Rezoning, drawings and any data necessary to demonstrate that
the proposed amendment is in general conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
An accurate legal description and map of the land and existing buildings shall
be submitted with the application. The above information is not required when
the application is filed by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   A public hearing before the Board of Trustees will be set on the day of
the regular meeting of the Board of Trustees at which action is sought. A
publication notice of the hearing date will be published in the "Daily
Ardmoreite" one time. The publication must appear not less than fifteen (15)
days prior to the meeting.
(Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
12-603: PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE THE TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   All rezoning changes of amendments will be heard by the Town Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
12-604: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
12-605: ACTION BY TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   The Town Board of Trustees shall approve or reject the application or may
make changes and establish conditions.
(Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
12-606: CLASSIFICATION OF NEW ADDITIONS:
   All new additions and annexations of land to the Town of Dickson shall be
classified into A-1 Agricultural classification.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
CHAPTER 7
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
12-701: Established
12-702: Membership
12-703: Procedure
12-704: Appeals To Board
12-705: Powers
12-706: Appeal To District Court
12-707: Vacancy In Office
12-701: ESTABLISHED:
   There is hereby created within and for the town of Dickson, a board of
adjustment with the powers and duties as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-702: MEMBERSHIP:
   The board of adjustment shall be composed of five (5) members, all citizens
of the town of Dickson, each appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
board of trustees for a term of three (3) years; provided, however, that for
the first appointment under the provision of this section, one member shall be
appointed for a term of one year; two (2) members shall be appointed for a term
of three (3) years. All appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three
(3) years.
   No one person shall serve on any two (2) committees of the town. In
addition, no two (2) committee members who are related in the third degree of
consanguinity or less by blood or marriage shall serve on any one committee.
   The board of adjustment shall elect a chairperson from its membership to
serve a term of one year.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-703: PROCEDURE:
   The board of adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and the Oklahoma state statutes. Meetings of the board shall be
held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board may
determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the
board of adjustment shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes
of its proceedings reflecting the vote of each member upon each question; or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall further keep records
of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the town clerk and shall be a public record.
The concurring vote of the majority of the members present of the board shall
be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of
any Dickson administrative official or officer, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under such ordinance,
or to effect any variation in such ordinance.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-704: APPEALS TO BOARD:
   Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved by a
decision of any officer or official of the town of Dickson. Any person, firm,
entity or corporation affected by any administrative decision of a Dickson
official based on this zoning ordinance may also appeal that decision to the
board of adjustment. Appeal shall be taken within ten (10) days from the date
of the decision by filing with the town clerk a written notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof and shall further deliver a copy of said notice
of appeal to the officer that made the original decision giving rise to the
appeal. The applicant shall, at his or her own expense, provide required
property owners lists prepared by a bonded abstracter to the town clerk at the
time the notice is filed. The town clerk shall forthwith transmit to the board
of adjustment all the papers and documents constituting the record upon which
the appeal was taken. The filing of an appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the officer from whom the appeal
is taken certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall
have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril or damage to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order which may be granted by the board of adjustment or by a court
of record on application and notice to the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and on due cause shown. Upon receipt of the documents from the town
clerk, the board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal, giving public notice thereof to the persons shown on the
abstracter's lists described in this section, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and shall decide the same within a reasonable time. The
board of adjustment may affirm, reverse, modify, or change any decision by an
officer or official of the town of Dickson. Upon the hearing before the board,
any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-705: POWERS:
   The board of adjustment shall have the following powers:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the interpretation or enforcement of the ordinance.
   B.   Powers relative to variation where, by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific piece of property at the time
of the original adoption of this part, or by reason of exceptional
topographical conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or
conditions of a specific piece of property that are not generally prevalent in
the area, the strict application of this part would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties or undue hardship. In said event, the board
of adjustment is hereby empowered to authorize upon an appeal relating to such
property a variation from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship and may further establish such requirements or
conditions relative to such property as would carry out the purpose and intent
of this part.
   C.   The board of adjustment is hereby empowered to permit the following
exceptions:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in simple ownership as shown on record.
      2.   To interpret the provisions of the ordinance where the street layout
on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map fixing the
several districts, which map is attached to and made a part of this part.
      3.   To grant exceptions to the off street parking requirements set forth
in this part when it is determined that the size and shape of the proposed lot
is such that off street parking provisions could not be complied with, and that
the proposed use with an exception will not create undue traffic congestion in
the adjacent streets.
      4.   To grant exceptions to the side yard requirements for accessory
detached private automobile garages on a lot where a conforming dwelling
existed at the time of passage of this part or any regulations.
      5.   To permit the expansion of a building housing a nonconforming use
which meets the following conditions:
         a.   The expansion shall not adversely affect any property in the area
in which it is located. Furthermore, screening or other conditions may be
attached to the approval of the expansion.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-706: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
   An appeal from any actions, decision, ruling, judgments, or order of the
Dickson board of adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the
town of Dickson, to the district court of Carter County, Oklahoma, by filing a
written notice of appeal with town clerk of Dickson, the Dickson board of
adjustments and the district court of Carter County within ten (10) days from
the filing of the decision of the board of adjustment, which notice shall
specify the grounds of such appeal and the basis for the relief sought. Upon
filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the said board of adjustment
shall forthwith transmit to the court clerk of the county, the original or
certified copy of all papers constituting the record in the case, together with
the order, decision, or ruling of the board. The person filing the appeal shall
be liable for payment of court costs and filing fees assessed by the district
court clerk.
   An appeal to the district court from the board of adjustment stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the chairman of
the board of adjustment from which the appeal is taken, certifies to the
district court clerk, after notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay in his or her opinion, would
cause imminent peril or damage to life or property. In such case, proceeding
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by a judge of the district court of Carter County. In said event, notice to the
mayor of the town of Dickson, the town clerk, and the chairman of board of
adjustment from which the appeal is taken shall be given.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
12-707: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
   In event of an appeal to the board of adjustment as provided herein, and in
event a vacancy or vacancies exist in the board of adjustment of Dickson at the
time the appeal is filed, then and in said event, the mayor of Dickson shall
have the authority to immediately appoint a member or members of the board of
adjustment to hear the particular appeal. Members of the board of adjustment
shall be different persons than members of the board of trustees of the
municipality. In said event, the town clerk shall administer oaths to the newly
appointed board of adjustment to hear the appeal or matter in question or
issue.
(Ord. 76, 1-4-2010)
CHAPTER 8
SEMIPUBLIC COMMUNITY ACT; SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-801: Definitions
12-802: Semipublic Community Act; Requirements
12-803: Gate Requirements For Semipublic Communities
12-804: Annual Inspection Of Gates
12-805: Incorporating Homeowners' Association With The Secretary Of State
12-801: DEFINITIONS 1
:
DEVELOPER: The person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity who is
improving and developing a parcel of land within the municipality and who is
legally responsible to the municipality for the construction of improvements
within a subdivision or as a condition of a building permit.
GOVERNING BODY: The acting council or board of a municipality.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: A nonprofit corporation, subject to a contract between
each individual member and the corporation.
MUNICIPALITY: A city or town incorporated pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-101 et seq.
NONPEAK HOURS OF TRAFFIC: The times in which demand for use of the residential
streets by nonsubdivision residents is not conventional nor high and shall be
defined as between the hours of one minute after six o'clock (6:01) P.M. and
five fifty nine o'clock (5:59) A.M. every calendar day.
PEAK HOUR OF TRAFFIC: The times in which accessibility is routine in the normal
course of municipal wide residential activity, which includes the service time
of school buses, and shall be defined as between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. every calendar day.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, special district, metropolitan district,
or general district, association, corporation, company, or organization of any
kind.
SEMIPUBLIC COMMUNITY: A subdivision containing semipublic roads that meets the
requirements set forth in the semipublic community act.
SEMIPUBLIC ROAD: A road in which full accessibility is without restriction
during peak hours of residential traffic and is dedicated to the municipality.
SUBDIVISION: The division or redivision of land into two (2) or more lots,
tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for
development, or the dedication or vacation of a public, private or semipublic
right of way or easement.
(Ord. 82, 12-19-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 43-122.
12-802: SEMIPUBLIC COMMUNITY ACT; REQUIREMENTS 1
:
   A.   All of the roads in the semipublic community shall be paved in
accordance with municipal requirements. Paving material shall be minimum of six
inches (6") in depth and be asphalt or concrete;
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of the developer to see that semipublic
communities shall have no obstruction to ingress and egress during peak traffic
hours;
   C.   The developer shall install all utilities and shall construct streets,
curbs and gutters in accordance with municipal standards and the residential
local and commercial collector specifications of the municipality. All
semipublic streets shall have a curb and gutter. Minimum paving standards shall
be improved to have a minimum eight inches (8") of stabilized road base in all
semipublic communities;
   D.   The developer is responsible to ensure that all semipublic community
roads shall carry a municipal bond for a period of five (5) years. The bond
shall be for one hundred percent (100%) during the first year and fifteen
percent (15%) for each of the remaining four (4) years;
   E.   All streets in a semipublic community shall be accessible to municipal
vehicles at all times, through the use and maintenance of a gating system as
provided and specified in section
12-804 of this chapter;
   F.   All streets in a semipublic community shall be serviced with private
streetlights that shall be installed by the developer at the expense of the
developer. Any maintenance and monthly service fee shall be paid by the
homeowners' association;
   G.   All semipublic communities shall be marked with adequate notice that
each street is a "semipublic street"; and
   H.   All amenities shall be implemented and maintained through private
means.
(Ord. 82, 12-19-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 43-110 et seq.
12-803: GATE REQUIREMENTS FOR SEMIPUBLIC COMMUNITIES 1
:
   A.   Gates for semipublic communities shall be located a sufficient distance
from a main arterial street to allow three (3) cars to line up at the gate
without interfering with vehicles utilizing the arterial street; however, in no
case shall the gate be located closer than seventy feet (70') from the curb or
edge of pavement of the arterial street;
   B.   A turnaround lane shall be provided for vehicles immediately in front
of the access gates with a minimum thirty eight foot (38') radius;
   C.   Speed bumps, road spikes, barbs or other tire damaging devices shall
not be allowed;
   D.   Any adopted municipal standards for streets, sidewalks, fire lanes,
fire hydrants and other engineering and development requirements shall apply to
semipublic communities;
   E.   Any entry keypad shall be located on a pedestal near the normal access
route. The entry code shall be given to the fire department, police department
and all other emergency services of the municipality;
   F.   An emergency activation key or knox box key shall be located on the
keypad pedestal. When activated, the activation key or knox box key will cause
the gate to open and stay open until reset by the fire department, police
department or other emergency services provider;
   G.   An emergency release hitch pin shall be installed on the control arm
from the gate and allow the gate to swing open freely with manual intervention;
   H.   A battery backup system shall be provided for each gate. The batteries
shall be trickle charged to maintain electrical energy, and in the event of
loss of normal electric current, cause the gate to open and stay open until
reset by a responsible member of the homeowners' association;
   I.   The location of all entrance pedestal, emergency activation keys or
knox box keys, keypads, hitch pins, related equipment, operation of gate,
signage, opening design, swinging or sliding operation of the gate, or any
other design specifications shall be constructed and installed in accordance
with the plans approved by the community development director and the fire
chief of the municipality;
   J.   Should any problem occur in the operation of the gate, or any violation
of this section occur, the gate shall remain open and accessible until the
problem is resolved or the gate is repaired and tested; and
   K.   When a covered entry is requested, the minimum height shall be no less
than sixteen feet (16').
   L.   A homeowners' association shall be established by the semipublic
community. The homeowners' association shall be responsible for the following:
      1.   Providing the homeowners' names, addresses and emergency contact
numbers of all officers to the fire department and the police department;
      2.   Maintenance, testing and repairs of all functions of the gate;
      3.   Establishing the access code to the gate and assuring that the Fire
Department, Police Department and any other emergency services have the proper
code number. Changing the code shall not be permitted without proper
notification to the appropriate Municipal offices;
      4.   Accompanying and assisting the Fire Department during annual
inspection and testing of the operating systems;
      5.   Requiring that the minimum gate opening width, including clearance
for all improvements related to the gate, shall not be less than twenty six
feet (26') for a single gate or fifteen feet (15') for each half of a double
gate, or a minimum of twenty feet (20') for each single gate on an entrance
that has two (2) separate lanes for ingress and egress.
(Ord. 82, 12-19-2016)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 43-124.
12-804: ANNUAL INSPECTION OF GATES 1
:
   A.   The City Manager, upon recommendation of the Community Development
Director, as may be appointed by the Governing Body, and the Fire Chief and
Police Chief, shall approve an access agreement with the developer, homeowners'
association, or other responsible property owners, providing for an annual
inspection of each gate to ensure that each gate is tested to meet all of the
requirements of this section prior to it being approved for operation and
continued operation. The access agreement shall include a hold harmless clause,
wherein the developer, homeowners' association or other responsible property
owners agree to hold the Town harmless in the event that the emergency devices
on the gate fail, and the Fire Department or Police Department are compelled to
crash the gates in order to respond to an emergency call or situation. In the
event that damage to any Municipally owned vehicle is caused by the failure of
the developer, homeowners' association or other responsible property owners to
notify in a timely fashion the Fire Department and Police Department of a new
access code, or failure to submit a key to a new lock on the emergency
activation key, the developer, homeowners' association or responsible property
owners shall be liable for the cost of repairs to Municipally owned equipment
as a result of a crash of the gate.
   B.   Verification of the access agreement and a copy thereof shall be kept
on file at the Fire Department and the Police Department, along with the name
of the gate contractor, address, twenty four (24) hour telephone numbers, and
the developer, homeowners' association representative, or the name of the
responsible property owner, address and emergency access telephone numbers.
These verifications and copy requirements are minimum requirements for approval
of the annual inspection of the gate. The Fire Department shall conduct the
annual inspection on the anniversary date each year of the date of approval of
the access agreement.
(Ord. 82, 12-19-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 43-125.
12-805: INCORPORATING HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION WITH THE SECRETARY OF STATE 1
:
   A.   Upon completion of the responsibilities by the developer cited in the
Semipublic Community Act, the developer shall ensure the formation of the
homeowners' association by incorporating the association with the Secretary of
State. Upon receipt of the certificate of incorporation, all responsibilities
of the developer shall transfer to the homeowners' association.
   B.   All streets in a semipublic community shall be dedicated to the
Municipality in which the community is situated. All water, sanitary sewer, and
storm sewer systems in semipublic community shall be dedicated to the
Municipality. (Ord. 82, 12-19-2016)
   C.   Detail plans for a semipublic community shall be surveyed and drawn and
submitted to the Municipal Governing Body for their approval or disapproval.
(Ord. 82, 12-19-2016; amd. Ord. 87, 6-26-2017)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 43-126.
CHAPTER 9
SPECIFIC USE PERMITS
SECTION:
12-901: Purposes
12-902: Conditions For Approval
12-903: Specific Use List
12-904: Use Conditions
12-905: Administration
12-901: PURPOSES:
   The Board of Trustees may, after conducting a public hearing as is required
in accordance with the provisions of this section, authorize for specific
parcels of land, the issuance of a specific use permit.
   The uses listed in the specific use list are so clarified because of the
size of the land they require or the specialized nature of the use, or they may
more intensely dominate the area in which they are located or their effects on
the general public are broader in scope than other types of uses permitted in
the district.
   The designation of a specific use permit as possible on the specific use
list does not constitute an authorization or an assurance that such use will be
permitted. Rather, each specific use permit application shall be valued as to
its probable effect on the adjacent property and community welfare and may be
approved or denied as the findings indicate appropriate.
(Ord. 93, 2-21-2019)
12-902: CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Plans And Data To Be Submitted: Prior to submission of a request for a
specific use permit, the Board of Trustees may require one or more pre-
application conferences with the potential applicant.
   The Board of Trustees will establish the requirements necessary for
consideration of the application. The Board of Trustees shall also set a
deposit amount from the applicant sufficient for payment of the application and
permit expenses. The requirements and amount of deposit may be adjusted by the
Town Board as necessary during the application process. The Board of Trustees
may require that the applicant furnish preliminary site plans and data
concerning the operation, location, function and characteristics of any use of
land or building proposed. For uses in which the land use has possible
environmental impact, the Board of Trustees may require those engineering and/
or environmental impact studies necessary for evaluation of the proposed use.
   B.   Board Of Trustees Requirements: The Board of Trustees may, in the
interest of the public welfare and to assure compliance with the intent of this
chapter and the Dickson Comprehensive Plan, require such development standards
and operational conditions and safeguards as are indicated to be important to
the welfare and protection of adjacent property and the community as a whole
and be compatible with the natural environment and the planned capacities of
public services and facilities affected by the land use. This may include the
requirement of having the property platted and/or the requirement of the
dedication of sufficient right-of-way or easement as necessary to further the
public good. The Board of Trustees may impose conditions including, but not
limited to, bonding, insurance, permitted uses, lot sizes, setbacks, height
limits, required facilities, buffers, open space areas, lighting, noise levels,
signage, landscaping, parking and loading, compatibility, and land use density
as may be indicated depending upon the proposed use and its potential effect on
adjacent areas or the community.
   C.   Site Plans: A site plan (plat plan) setting forth the conditions
specified may be required of the applicant and such plan when accepted shall be
made a part of the permit issued for the specific use.
   D.   Designation Of Zoning Map: A specific use permit approved under the
provisions of this chapter shall not be considered as an amendment to the
Zoning Ordinance; however, the specific use permit shall be noted on the zoning
map as follows: SUP - (the number of the request for a specific use permit).
Any of the conditions contained in a specific use permit approval shall be
considered as conditions precedent to the granting of a building permit for the
specific use provided for.
   E.   Time Limits For Implementation: If for any reason the approved specific
use ceases operation for a period of two (2) years, then the approval of said
specific use shall be considered void and will require another public hearing
review by the Board of Trustees. This shall also apply to any approved specific
use that does not begin operation within two (2) years of approval. This
voiding of approval shall not apply if orderly progress toward completion of
construction is taking place. Uses existing before the adoption of this
chapter, including non-conforming uses and their incidental and accessory uses,
must receive a specific use permit before any expansion of the use is
permitted.
(Ord. 93, 2-21-2019)
12-903: SPECIFIC USE LIST:
   The following uses are allowed in all zoning districts by specific use
permit as granted by the Board of Trustees:
   Adult entertainment establishments.
   Airport-heliport.
   Apartment units of nine (9) units or more.
   Bed and breakfast inn.
   Bus station.
   Cemetery.
   College or university hospital.
   Commercial marijuana growth facilities.
   Commercial resort facilities (minimum acreage requirement of 40 acres).
   Commercial theme parks.
   Convalescent homes.
   Convict pre-release center.
   Crematory.
   Cultural or heritage centers.
   Detention center juvenile-adult.
   Electric generation plant and/or substation.
   Fire protection facility.
   Golf course.
   Golf driving range.
   Government services.
   Gun club.
   Halfway house.
   Industrial uses requiring a minimum acreage requirement of forty (40) acres.
   Juvenile delinquency center.
   Library.
   Marijuana processing facilities.
   Marijuana retailer.
   Mausoleum.
   Mini storage.
   Mining and mineral processing.
   Museum.
   Nursing homes.
   Offices use when located on a 40-acre or larger tract.
   Post Office.
   Private schools with comprehensive education curriculum.
   Public or private attractions.
   Public schools.
   Recycling center.
   Refuse transfer station.
   Rifle and skeet range.
   Sanitary landfill.
   Sewer disposal facility.
   Trade schools.
   Transmitting tower (excluding amateur radio tower).
   Water treatment facility and/or water storage facility.
(Ord. 93, 2-21-2019)
12-904: USE CONDITIONS:
   Specific uses permitted shall comply with the most restrictive yard and
height requirements of the district in which located and in addition shall
comply with the requirements, especially for parking and loading, as required
per this part, except as may be modified by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 93, 2-21-2019)
12-905: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Filing Of An Application For Specific Use Permit: An application for a
specific use permit may be filed with the Town Clerk by the owner(s) of the
property concerned, by the duly authorized representative thereof, by the
holder of an option to purchase the affected real estate or by the purchaser in
a contract to purchase realty. Such application shall be on a standard form
furnished by the Town Clerk of the Town. All applications for a specific use
permit shall be accompanied by a site plan of the proposed area showing the
location of buildings, parking, and other pertinent data concerning the
operation of the proposed use.
   B.   Fee For Application: A two thousand dollar ($2,000.00) fee shall be
required with the specific use permit application, and such other fee as the
Board of Trustees may from time to time specify by resolution.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the public hearing to consider a specific
use permit shall be mailed at least twenty (20) days before the public hearing
held by the Board of Trustees by certified mailing the notice of public
hearing, which will be provided by the Town Clerk, to all owners of property
within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior boundary of the
subject property and published in the local newspaper (The Daily Ardmoriete).
The applicant must present copies of the certified mailings and proof of
publishing to the Town Clerk before public hearing is held.
   The notice shall contain:
      1.   The date, time and place of the public hearing.
      2.   The present zoning classification of the property and the nature of
the specific use permit.
      3.   The legal description of the property and street address or
approximate location in the Municipality.
   D.   Appeals And Confirmation By The Board Of Trustees: If an appeal is not
timely filed, the recommendation of the Board of Trustees shall be included on
a Board consent agenda for consideration and may be removed from the consent
agenda by Board pursuant to Board rules.
   If an appeal is timely filed, the Board of Trustees shall establish a date
specific for its decision and may affirm.
(Ord. 93, 2-21-2019)
PART 13
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
13-101: Adoption of fire prevention code.
13-102: Enforcement.
13-103: Definition.
13-104: Limits for storage of flammable liquids, bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gases, explosives and blasting agents.
13-105: Modifications.
13-106: Appeals.
13-107: Penalty.
13-101: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the town board of trustees for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code,
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the
current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. Not less than one copy of the
code has been filed in the office of the clerktreasurer of the town and the
same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein. The provisions of The Fire Prevention Code shall be controlling within
the limits of the town.
13-102: ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the chief of the fire
department.
13-103: DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word ''municipality" is used in the Fire Prevention Code hereby
adopted it shall be held to mean the town.
13-104: LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED
PETROLEUM GASES, EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   The limits referred to in the Fire Prevention Code, in which storage of
flammable liquids in outside above-ground tanks is prohibited, the limits
referred to in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, and
the limits in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited,
are hereby established as the fire limits provided in Part 5 of this code.
13-105: MODIFICATIONS.
   The chief of the fire department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the code hereby adopted in his own discretion or upon application
in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the letter of the code,
provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured
and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modifications when
granted or allowed and the decision of the chief of the fire department thereon
shall be entered upon the records of the department and for applications
requesting change, a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
13-106: APPEALS.
   Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the chief of the fire department to the town board of trustees
within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
13-107: PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICE
SECTION:
13-201: Fire Department
13-202: Duties Of The Fire Chief
13-203: Duties Of The Assistant Chief
13-204: Company Officers
13-205: Secretary-Treasurer
13-206: New Members
13-207: Bylaws
13-208: Rules And Regulations
13-209: Use Of Fire Equipment; Inventory And Repair
13-210: Contracts Authorized Outside Town Limits
13-211: Fire Protection Agreement; Fees For Service
13-212: Authority To Answer Calls
13-213: Firefighters Serving In Regular Line Of Duty
13-214: Department Considered Agent Of State
13-201: FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
:
   A.   There shall be a fire department, the head of which shall be the chief
of the fire department.
   B.   The term "volunteer firefighter" means one who is enrolled as a member
of the fire department of the town and who serves in that capacity without
receiving a regular salary. The size of the volunteer fire department of the
town shall be composed of not less than six (6) nor more than twenty (20)
members.
   C.   It is the duty of the fire department, among others, to extinguish
fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer
first aid to, persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere in
case of an emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise
provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and
safety of persons from fire in public and private buildings.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 29-201 et seq.
13-202: DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF 1
:
   A.   The chief shall be the administrative head of the department, subject
to the laws of the state, ordinances of the town, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties,
and he may assign duties to other members of the department:
      1.   The chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him. He shall have supervision and
control of the fire department, subject to the supervision and control of the
town board;
      2.   The chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
      3.   The chief may maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
      4.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties;
      5.   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department;
      6.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson,
shall notify proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence
for future use in the case;
      7.   The chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
town at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice on persons for any violations that may be found; and
      8.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the town board as it may require. The
chief shall keep the board of trustees informed regarding the fire department
and its needs.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 20-102; 74 OS § 314.
13-203: DUTIES OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF:
   In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on duty shall command the
department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the chief. The assistant chief shall be elected
from among the members of the fire department.
(1987 Code)
13-204: COMPANY OFFICERS:
   A.   Company officers shall be selected by the chief based upon the
following criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability; and
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(1987 Code)
13-205: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
   A.   One member elected by the members of the fire department shall be a
secretary- treasurer. His duties shall consist of the following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members.
(1987 Code)
13-206: NEW MEMBERS:
   New members of the department shall be appointed by the chief and shall be
on probation for one year after their appointment. Upon completion of their
probation period, new members must be approved by the majority of the other
members of the fire department and the town board.
(1987 Code)
13-207: BYLAWS:
   A.   The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
      1.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified,
to respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
      2.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
      3.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held
each month;
      4.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three
(3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped from the
fire department rolls;
      5.   Any member leaving the town for an extended period of time is
required to notify the chief;
      6.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members
of the department will be dropped; and
      7.   Any member of the fire department may be dropped from the rolls for
the following offenses:
         a.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         b.   Any act of insubordination;
         c.   Neglect of duty;
         d.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department;
         e.   Conviction of a felony; or
         f.   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of
the town board of trustees.
(1987 Code)
13-208: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   The town board of trustees by motion or resolution may adopt and change
regulations relating to the fire department, its organization, operation and
compensation.
(1987 Code)
13-209: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR:
   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away or conceal
any article used in any way by the department. No person shall enter any place
where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging
to the department unless accompanied by, or having the special permission of an
officer or authorized member of the department.
(1987 Code)
13-210: CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS 1
:
   The town is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the town, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 29-108.
13-211: FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENT; FEES FOR SERVICE:
   Residents or members of the Dickson fire district may avail themselves of
basic fire protection on an annual basis by entering into basic subscriber fire
protection agreements with the town for an annual fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00). Nonsubscribing residents of the Dickson fire district or subscribers
whose agreements have expired or lapsed for nonpayment who call upon the
Dickson fire department for fire protection or fire response services or who
receive said services to a dwelling or structure, shall be charged a fee of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per call or run. Nonsubscribing residents of
the district or subscribers whose agreements have expired or lapsed for
nonpayment who call upon the Dickson fire department for fire protection or
fire response services or who receive said services to a pasture, lawn, ditch,
or nonimproved area, shall be charged a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per call or run. The latter fee may be waived by the fire chief of Dickson if
he is satisfied that the nonsubscribing owner, tenant, or person in possession
of the real property did not initiate or cause the pasture or lawn fire to
occur, or if the same occurred by accident or by unknown parties. In the event
of waiver, the fire chief's decision shall be final.
   Residents of the Dickson fire district who are up to date and fully paid
subscribers to the town of Dickson's annual fire protection program shall be
authorized to enter into fire protection contracts or service agreements with
other municipalities or departments, at their discretion.
   No municipality, city, or town may contract for fire protection service or
protection with any resident, tenant, or owner of property in the Dickson fire
district, or a subscribing member thereof, unless the subscribing owner,
member, or tenant in possession has an existing, up to date, fully paid fire
protection agreement with the town of Dickson. Be it further ordained that
before any other municipality, city, or town enters into or offers a fire
protection or fire response service agreement with any resident, owner, or
member of the Dickson fire district, the fire chief or his designee of that
city, municipality, or town shall first contact the town clerk of Dickson to
verify that the applicant or prospective subscriber for fire protection service
is a member in good standing of the Dickson fire district and has an up to
date, fully paid fire protection contract with the latter town.
(Ord. 50, 12-15-1998)
13-212: AUTHORITY TO ANSWER CALLS:
   The fire department of the town is hereby authorized and directed to answer
all outside calls outside the corporate town limits in the discretion of the
fire chief. The fire department may not answer such outside calls if, in the
opinion of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account of another
fire in the town, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways, or other
physical conditions.
(1987 Code)
13-213: FIREFIGHTERS SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY:
   All volunteer firefighters of the fire department of the town attending and
serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of
the town as herein provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular
line of duty as fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of
the town. The firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any
firemen's pension and relief fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or
fire prevention work was being done within the corporate limits of the town.
Compensation of firefighters shall be as provided by the board of trustees by
ordinance or resolution.
(1987 Code)
13-214: DEPARTMENT CONSIDERED AGENT OF STATE:
   The fire department of the town answering any fire alarm, or call, or
performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the
town shall be considered as an agent of the state, and acting solely and alone
in a governmental capacity, and the municipality shall not be liable in damages
for any act of commission, omission, or negligence while answering or returning
from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by
virtue of this section and sections
13-210 to
13-213 of this chapter.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 3
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
13-301: Police Department Created; Chief
13-302: Duties
13-303: Police Officers
13-304: Auxiliary Or Reserve Police
13-301: POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF 1
:
   There shall be a police department, the head of which is the chief of
police, or police chief, appointed by the town board of trustees and removable
by the board. The chief of police is an officer of the town, and has
supervision and control of the police department. All police officers are
officers of the town.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 34-101 et seq.
13-302: DUTIES:
   It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view or
on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions, and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The police department has
charge of and operates the town jail.
(1987 Code)
13-303: POLICE OFFICERS:
   Police officers shall be appointed subject to approval of the town board of
trustees. Police officers who shall perform such duties as shall be required of
them by the chief of police, town ordinances, federal, state and county
regulations and any other actions required in the maintenance of good order and
public peace.
(1987 Code)
13-304: AUXILIARY OR RESERVE POLICE:
   A.   Created: An auxiliary or reserve police force be, and the same is
hereby created in the town of Dickson, Oklahoma, to work under and be directly
responsible to the chief of police of said town.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Said auxiliary or reserve police force
members, appointed by the chief of police of Dickson with the approval of a
majority of the Dickson board of trustees, shall have the following
authorities, duties and responsibilities as reserve or auxiliary officers:
      1.   To assist the chief of police of Dickson at all special events,
including, but not limited to, sporting events, football games, public events,
emergencies, disasters, fires, crowd control, manhunts and backup for regular
officers.
      2.   To make arrests for offenses committed in the officer's presence.
(Ord. 51, 1-21-1999)
      3.   After each auxiliary officer candidate is approved as an auxiliary
or reserve officer by the board of trustees, then and in said event said
reserve officer may effect arrest for misdemeanors and/or felonies committed in
his or her presence; and in addition, for felony offenses based on probable
cause to believe same has been committed. In addition, after board approval,
said auxiliary officers may lawfully serve warrants to arrest and have such
duties as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 34-101(A). (Ord. 65, 12-
18-2006)
      4.   Dickson auxiliary officers may use all Dickson communication
equipment in the course of their lawful duties, including base radios and two-
way equipment, and in addition, each officer may make field investigations,
write reports, and shall cooperate fully with other law enforcement agencies
and prosecutors.
      5.   Dickson auxiliary officers shall wear a uniform compatible with
uniforms of the regular members of the Dickson police department, and shall
display a proper badge and insignia at all times while on duty.
      6.   After approval by the Board of Trustees as set out herein, auxiliary
officers may carry firearms, after having been approved to do so by the Dickson
Police Chief. (Ord. 51, 1-21-1999)
   C.   Appointments; Requirements: The Chief of Police of Dickson is
authorized to appoint auxiliary or reserve officers who shall be appointed with
the express approval and consent of a majority of the members of the Board of
Trustees of Dickson. After the approval by the Dickson Board of Trustees, the
auxiliary or reserve officers shall serve at the express pleasure of the Chief
of Police and the Town of Dickson Board of Trustees.
   After the approval by the Dickson Board of Trustees, the auxiliary or
reserve officers will be required to complete sixteen (16) hours a month of
volunteer duty. Failure to comply with the required volunteer hours, unless
otherwise waived by the Chief of Police, will result in revocation of officers
commission with the Town of Dickson. Reserve officers in good standing may be
assigned, upon the request of the Chief of Police, paid duty hours.
   The auxiliary or reserve officers shall meet the minimum requirements of 70
Oklahoma Statutes section 3311.
(Ord. 92, 12-17-2018)
CHAPTER 4
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
13-401: Purpose of civil defense organization.
13-402: Department established.
13-403: Duties of director.
13-404: Powers of director in emergencies.
13-405: Compensation of members.
13-401: PURPOSE OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION.
   A civil defense organization is created for the town to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the town. The duties of the civil defense
organization are the protection of the lives and health of the citizens and of
property and property rights, both private and public, and performance of all
functions necessary and incident thereto.
State Law Reference: Local civil defense organizations, 63 O.S. Section 683.11.
13-402: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government a
department of civil defense which shall consist of:
   1.   A director of civil defense who shall be appointed and may be removed
with or without cause by the mayor; and
   2.   A civil defense advisory committee. This committee shall consist of the
mayor as chairman and five (5) members appointed by the mayor and serving at
his pleasure. The committee shall select from its members a vice-chairman and
secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the mayor and its
function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or requested by the
mayor or the director of civil defense.
13-403: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The director of civil defense shall be the executive head of the department
of the civil defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil
defense program of the town. He shall serve without compensation but may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his duties. It shall be
the duty of the director of civil defense as soon as practicable after his
appointment to perfect an organization to carry out the purposes set forth in
this chapter and he shall have all necessary power and authority to form
committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the chairman or chief
officer of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an organization. He
shall have further duty and responsibility to cooperate with all civil defense
agencies of other governmental units, including the state and the federal
government. The director of civil defense is further authorized to formulate
written plans and gather information and keep written record thereof to govern
the functions of the civil defense organization.
13-404: POWERS OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES.
   A.   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the director of civil defense after due authorization from the
mayor shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control of transportation,
communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and public utilities
for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He shall cooperate in
every way with the activities of other governmental agencies or civil defense
organizations. If required by the mayor, the director shall have control over
any and all funds allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating
distress conditions in the town.
   B.   The director of civil defense and other members of the civil defense
organization created by him shall have the power and authority to enforce the
laws of the state and ordinances of the town during the period of emergency and
shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for violations of
such laws or ordinances.
13-405: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the civil defense organization created in this chapter shall
serve without compensation. The town shall not be liable for any personal or
bodily injury received by any member of such organization while acting in the
line of duty.
CHAPTER 5
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
13-501: Complete record required.
13-502: Disposition of unclaimed property.
13-503: Property found by a private person.
13-504: Recovery by owner.
13-501: COMPLETE RECORD REQUIRED.
   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the chief
of police. The chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found; and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
State Law Reference: Disposition of seasonal property by police chief,
procedures, application to destroy, 11 O.S. Section 34-104; Uniform unclaimed
property disposition act, 60 O.S., 655; relating to finders of lost goods, 15
O.S. Sections 511 et seq.; disposal of stolen or embezzled property coming into
hands of police officers, 22 O.S. Sections 1321 et seq.; disposal of liquor and
gambling equipment seized by police, officers, 22 O.S. Sections 1261 et seq.;
alcoholic beverages seized in violation of law, 37 O.S. 539.
13-502: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remains in the
possession of the chief of police, unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not
to him satisfactorily established, for a period of more than thirty (30) days,
shall be sold, or disposed of in the manner required by law, except such
personal property as in the opinion of the town manager can be more
advantageously used by some department or office of the town government.
13-503: PROPERTY FOUND BY A PRIVATE PERSON.
   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within thirty (30) days, shall, within ten (10)
additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him, and
a record of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return
of the property to him within such additional ten (10) days, then the chief of
police shall sell the property in the manner required by law as if it had been
found by a public official or employee, or on instruction by the town manager
deliver it to some department or office of the town government for its use.
13-504: RECOVERY BY OWNER.
   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the board of trustees.
PART 14
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WORKS
CHAPTER 1
USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
SECTION:
14-101: Trees and shrubbery to be trimmed.
14-102: Unlawful to injure trees and shrubbery.
14-103: Unlawful to obstruct sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys with
merchandise.
14-104: Unlawful to obstruct unduly sidewalks and streets.
14-105: Unlawful to deposit trash upon streets or sidewalks.
14-106: Unlawful to play on streets.
14-107: Water from filling stations and other businesses.
14-108: Owner or occupant not to permit sidewalk or sidewalk area to become a
hazard.
14-109: Street not to be obstructed so as to interfere with drainage.
14-110: Penalty.
14-101: TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO BE TRIMMED.
   A.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this town shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten (10) feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight (8) feet above the sidewalk.
   B.   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in Subsection A of this section, after receiving five
(5) days' notice from the head of the department in charge of streets to do so,
shall be guilty of an offense against the town. Every day that the the owner or
occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery, after
the expiration of the five (5) days' notice, shall be a separate offense.
14-102: UNLAWFUL TO INJURE TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town; provided that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
14-103: UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS, STREETS AND ALLEYS WITH
MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or permit
to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the town any
goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction, and leave same
thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade.
14-104: UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT UNDULY SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the town in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
14-105: UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the town any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
14-106: UNLAWFUL TO PLAY ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the main-traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
14-107: WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease
or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley or other public way.
14-108: OWNER OR OCCUPANT NOT TO PERMIT SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA TO BECOME A
HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk, or sidewalk area.
14-109: STREET NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk, or alley, by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water,
into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon
the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutter.
14-110: PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
(RESERVED)
PART 15
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
15-101: Definitions
15-102: Application Of Regulations
15-103: Vehicle Equipment Generally
15-104: Size, Weight Of Vehicles, Vehicles More Than Ten Tons
15-105: Securing Loads
15-106: Inspection Of Vehicles By Officers
15-107: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
15-108: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
15-109: Unlawful Riding
15-110: Authorizing Or Permitting Violations Prohibited
15-111: Application To Animal-Drawn Vehicles
15-112: Working On Streets; Exceptions
15-113: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-114: Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-115: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
15-116: Crossing Fire Hose
15-117: Duty Of Police
15-118: Accidents, Duty To Stop, Leaving Scene Of Accident
15-119: Issuance Of Citation Tags
15-120: Failure To Obey Citation
15-121: Failure To Comply With Traffic Citations Attached To Parked Vehicle
15-122: Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations
15-123: Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations, Warrants, And Complaints
15-124: Court Records; Abstract To Be Sent To State Department Of Public Safety
15-125: Eluding Police Officer Prohibited
15-126: Highway Safety Code Adopted
15-127: Insurance Or Certificate Required
15-101: DEFINITIONS 1
:
   For the purposes of this part the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them. However, for any words and phrases used
in this part which are not defined in this section, but are defined in the laws
of the State regulating traffic, the definition in the laws of the State shall
be deemed to apply to the words and phrases used in this part:
   ALLEY: A public passageway or street which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and having no legal or official name
other than alley.
   BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) or three (3) tandem wheels any of which is more than
twenty inches (20") in diameter.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Vehicles of Fire Departments, police vehicles and
ambulances.
   INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) streets or highways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in
conflict.
   LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
Town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this Code placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: Any officer of the Town Police Department or any other
officer authorized by law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two (2) or more separate roadways the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STOP: When required, complete cessation from movement. When prohibited, stop
or stopping means any halting even momentarily of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or
signal.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this part.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 1-101 et seq.
15-102: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this part shall apply to every street, highway,
alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way either
within or outside the corporate limits of the Town, the use of which the Town
has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including but not limited to:
      1. Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
      2.   Those upon land owned by the Town;
      3.   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the Town;
      4.   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the Town.
(1987 Code)
15-103: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY 1
:
   A.   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the Town shall be equipped
as required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the Town which is not equipped as
required by law;
      2.   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law; or
      3.   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a
street in the Town.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 12-101 et seq.
15-104: SIZE, WEIGHT OF VEHICLES, VEHICLES MORE THAN TEN TONS 1
:
   A.   No person shall drive on or convey through any street any vehicle the
width, height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by
State law, except in accordance with a permit issued by State authority or by
the Chief of Police.
   B.   No vehicle weighing more than ten (10) tons shall be operated upon the
streets, alleys and other public ways within the Town, except on State
highways.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 14-101 et seq.
15-105: SECURING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   C.   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products except baled agricultural products but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom.
(1987 Code)
15-106: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS:
   Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the Town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair.
(1987 Code)
15-107: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1105.
15-108: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
15-109: UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
15-110: AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him,
registered in his name or under his control to be driven, parked or stopped in
violation of any provision of this part. No parent of any child or guardian of
any ward shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit such child or ward to
violate any provision of this part.
15-111: APPLICATION TO ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this part applicable to the driver of any vehicle except those
provisions of this part which by their very nature can have no application.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-104.
15-112: WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   A.   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the streets
of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving, or
repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the board of trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction. In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
Subsection A and traffic-control devices or barricades have been erected, it is
unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over, or around
the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the closed
area. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons while
engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair, or to persons entering
therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their places of
residence or places of business within the closed area may travel, when
possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel, or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic-control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flagmen, or other traffic-control devices
which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area.
15-113: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this part shall not apply to a driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit
of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to but not
upon returning from a fire alarm. The exemptions herein granted to an
authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle
while in motion sounds audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may
be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to the front of the vehicle, except
that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his
reckless disregard for the safety of others.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-106.
15-114: APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this state,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal
only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-405.
15-115: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred (500) feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1108(a).
15-116: CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1109.
Cross Reference: Interference with fire services, Section
15-115  of this code.
15-117: DUTY OF POLICE.
   The police department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions. Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire OF
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity.
15-118: ACCIDENTS, DUTY TO STOP, LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto
as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has
given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle and shall upon
request exhibit his driver's license to the person injured or the driver or
occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of Three Hundred
Dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a
police officer or to the police department. If a driver makes out a written
report of the accident in the office of the police department as soon as
practicable after the accident, which report is to be forwarded to the state
department of public safety in accordance with state law, the driver shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   C.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
State Law Reference: Accident reports, 47 O.S. Sections 10-101 et seq.
15-119: ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS.
   A.   The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this part.
   B.   o Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   C.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
   E.   The town' board of trustees may require that the police officers use
citation tags furnished by the finance department and that such tags are
serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
15-120: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his written promise
to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally
issued.
15-121: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under
the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the
clerk of the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to
which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the violation
and warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of
five (5) days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2)
or more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and
the traffic citations have been' disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this section.
15-122: ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this chapter.
15-123: DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS, AND COMPLAINTS.
   A.   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this town shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the municipal court.
   B.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   C.   The chief of police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the municipal court which are delivered to the police department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   D.   No member of the police department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance- or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint,
or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter.
15-124: COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT TO BE SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY.
   A.   The municipal court clerk shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in reference
thereto, including but not limited to a record of every conviction, forfeiture
of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or forfeiture.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways the Municipal Judge or Clerk
of the Court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   C.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State Department
of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party charged,
the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration number of
the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea,
the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture.
(1987 Code)
15-125: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED:
   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible
signal directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall wilfully
increase his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to
or actually elude such law enforcement officer. A visual or audible signal for
the purpose of this section means a red light and a siren from a law
enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to
be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car.
(1987 Code)
15-126: HIGHWAY SAFETY CODE ADOPTED:
   The Oklahoma Highway Safety Code 1
is hereby adopted and incorporated in this Code, as if set out at length
herein, for the purposes of establishing locally appropriate rules and
regulations for the control of traffic within said Municipality.
   The definitions and words used in this part shall be the same as those
definitions in title 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-101 as amended.
   The Office of the Town Clerk shall maintain at least three (3) copies of the
current Oklahoma Highway Safety Code adopted by this Code, on file in the
Office of said Town Clerk.
(Ord. 85, 6-26-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. Tit. 47, OS § 10-101 et seq., as amended and every 10 years recodification
  thereof.
15-127: INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this State and operating the
vehicle within the Town's boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all times
a current owner's security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the State Department of Public Safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   B.   The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or operator's
security verification form or an equivalent form from the department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the Federal or State government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the Department of Public
Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this State as found in
article VI, chapter 7, and section 7-606 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with section 7-204 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   SECURITY:
      1.   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of section 7-204 of title
47 of the Oklahoma Statutes;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under section 7-204 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of section 7-503 of title
47 of the Oklahoma Statutes, having the equivalency of limits required under
section 7-204 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the State Board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
Compulsory Insurance Law of the State of Oklahoma.
   D.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this State, shall while
operating or using such vehicle within the Town's boundaries, carry either an
operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a carrier,
providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an equivalent
form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   E.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section 1-108 of this Code.
   F.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   G.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   H.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY, PARKING AND SPEEDING
SECTION:
Article A. General Provisions
15-201: Operation Of Vehicles Generally
15-202: Driver's License Required
15-203: Vehicle License Required
15-204: Unlicensed Vehicles
15-205: Display Of Inspection Sticker
15-206: Starting A Parked Vehicle
15-207: Drive On Right Side Of Roadway; Exceptions
15-208: Right Of Way Generally
15-209: Vehicle Turning Left
15-210: Reckless Driving
15-211: Driving While Impaired Or Under The Influence Of Intoxicating Liquor Or
Narcotics
15-212: Driving On Sidewalk
15-213: Limitations On Backing
15-214: Corner Cutting
15-215: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
15-216: Weight And Speed Limits On Certain Streets And Roads
Article B. Speeding Regulations
15-220: General Rule For Speed Regulations
15-221: General Maximum Speed Limit
Article C. Parking Regulations
15-230: Obstructing Traffic Or Driveways
15-231: Park Within Indicated Space
15-232: Proximity To Curb, Parallel Parking
15-233: Angle Parking, Designation
15-234: Obedience To Angle Parking Rules
15-235: Parking Prohibitions In Specific Areas
15-236: Designation Of Loading Zones
15-237: Standing In Loading Zone
15-238: Prohibition Against Selling Merchandise From Parked Vehicles
15-239: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
15-240: Handicapped Parking, Enforcement On Public Or Private Property
Article D. Turning And Signals
15-250: Required Position, Method Of Turning At Intersections
15-251: Turns And U-Turns
15-252: Turning, Stopping Signals Required
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
15-201: OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY 1
:
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-101 et seq.
15-202: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED 1
:
   It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver's license as
required by state law for operation of a vehicle upon the state highways, to
operate a motor vehicle within the town, or to operate a motor vehicle within
the town in violation of any restriction applied to the driver's license.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 6-101 et seq.
15-203: VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED:
   No person shall drive, propel, move, or park on the streets of this town any
motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer unless the motor vehicle, trailer, or
semitrailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon.
(1987 Code)
15-204: UNLICENSED VEHICLES:
   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a
current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the
town.
(1987 Code)
15-205: DISPLAY OF INSPECTION STICKER:
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on the streets of this town which does
not have displayed thereon an official inspection sticker as required by
sections 851 through 861 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes, as amended.
(1987 Code)
15-206: STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE:
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(1987 Code)
15-207: DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS 1
:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed of
traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall be
driven in the right hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-301.
15-208: RIGHT OF WAY GENERALLY:
   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right of
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different street,
provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or
federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different highways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
(1987 Code)
15-209: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT 1
:
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn left shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded and having given a signal
when and as required by this part, may make such left turn, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite direction
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-402.
15-210: RECKLESS DRIVING 1
:
   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. Reckless
driving shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in wilful or wanton
disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or dangerous
rate of speed.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS § 11-901.
15-211: DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED OR UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR
NARCOTICS 1
:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within this town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person whose ability to drive, operate or be in
actual physical control of any motor vehicle is impaired due to consumption of
intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating beverages.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana, or who is
under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him incapable
of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor vehicle within this town.
The fact that any person charged with a violation of this subsection is or has
been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate, amphetamine,
marijuana, or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any charge of
violating this subsection.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 11-902, 751.
15-212: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(1987 Code)
15-213: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(1987 Code)
15-214: CORNER CUTTING:
   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the
services offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking
facility. No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening their travel distance,
avoiding a traffic control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive.
(1987 Code)
15-215: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING 1
:
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-704.
15-216: WEIGHT AND SPEED LIMITS ON CERTAIN STREETS AND ROADS:
   A.   Regulation Of Vehicles Exceeding Certain Weights On Specific Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicles or trucks on
streets and roads within the corporate limits of Dickson, Oklahoma, when the
individual gross vehicle weight rating of said vehicles exceeds seven (7) tons,
or fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds. It shall further be unlawful to operate
any motor vehicle, including commercial trucks, on all remaining roadways and
streets within the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma, Town limits, except Dogwood Road,
Dickson Road, Provence Road and Red Cedar Road, when the individual gross
vehicle weight rating of said vehicles exceeds ten (10) tons or twenty thousand
(20,000) pounds per vehicle. It shall further be unlawful to operate a vehicle
or truck in excess of such weights on said streets or roadways, with the
exception of Dogwood Road, Dickson Road, Provence Road and Red Cedar Road,
except: a) for the purpose of making home or ranch deliveries or pickups; b)
for the purpose of making home or ranch service calls; c) for the purpose of
carrying out normal everyday farm and ranch operations, in which case such
vehicle may be driven on Dickson, Oklahoma streets and roads for not more than
the minimum distance necessary for the said farming and/or ranching purpose; d)
where the use of such vehicles is necessary to carry out any duty or operation
of a local utility company, including natural gas, electric, telephone, or
television cable representatives; and e) any vehicle or truck necessary to
carry out any lawful duty of the Town of Dickson, Oklahoma.
      2.   If any subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
section is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this section.
      3.   Any person, firm, entity, partnership, corporation or association
who violates this section shall be liable for a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00). Each violation by any person, firm, entity,
partnership, corporation, or association shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Speed Limit: A speed limit for all motor vehicles, including
automobiles and trucks shall be set by the Board of Trustees at the rate of
thirty (30) miles per hour for the dead-end streets or roads in the Town of
Dickson, Oklahoma; a speed limit of forty five (45) miles per hour for all
motor vehicles which have a gross weight rating less than fifty four thousand
(54,000) pounds on Redbud Road, but vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating
of fifty four thousand (54,000) pounds or greater shall be a speed limit of
twenty (20) miles per hour on Redbud Street; and forty (40) miles per hour,
unless otherwise posted, for all the remaining streets and roads in the
corporate limits of Dickson, Oklahoma.
      1.   The above limitations of weight and speed on streets and roads in
the corporate limits of Dickson, Oklahoma, shall be appropriately posted by
placement of signs on roadways, outlining the appropriate weight and speed
limits.
      2.   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority and duty to take
immediate legal action against any person, firm, entity, partnership,
corporation, or association who violates this section by instituting a civil
action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 91, 5-21-2018)
ARTICLE B.
SPEEDING REGULATIONS
15-220: GENERAL RULE FOR SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured clear distance ahead.
   B.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
subsection A of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(1987 Code)
15-221: GENERAL MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT.
   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this chapter, shall
be driven at a speed greater than twenty-five (25) miles per hour upon any
street within this town. The board of trustees may determine that certain other
speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain
areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at
a speed in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place giving
notice thereof.
ARTICLE C.
PARKING REGULATIONS
15-230: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
15-231: PARK WITHIN INDICATED SPACE.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delineating a space.
15-232: PROXIMITY TO CURB, PARALLEL PARKING.
   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall be so stopped or parked
in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle parallel to and within eighteen (18) inches of the curb or roadway
edge.
15-233: ANGLE PARKING, DESIGNATION.
   The board of trustees may determine upon what streets angle parking is
permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the streets. Angle parking
shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where passing traffic would
thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the street. Angle
parking, for the purpose of this part, shall mean parking at the curb at
approximately a 45-degree angle between the right side of the vehicle and the
curb.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1004 (c).
15-234: OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING RULES.
   A.   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front of the
vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street.
15-235: PARKING PROHIBITIONS IN SPECIFIC AREAS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control
device, no person shall:
   1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this section;
      b.   On a sidewalk;
      c.   Within an intersection;
      d.   On a crosswalk;
      e.   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      f.   On any railroad tracks; or
      g.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking; or
   2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      a.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      b.   Within ten (10) feet of a fire hydrant;
      c.   Within ten (10) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection; except in
marked parking spaces;
      d.   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      e.   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station; or
      f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1003.
15-236: DESIGNATION OF LOADING ZONES.
   The board of trustees may determine the location of passenger and freight
curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating
the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable.
15-237: STANDING IN LOADING ZONE.
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
   C.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
15-238: PROHIBITION AGAINST SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town
and offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided
in this part, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the
town is declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating
around the vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance.
15-239: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   B.   The presumption in Subsection A of this section shall apply only when
the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
15-240: HANDICAPPED PARKING, ENFORCEMENT ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of Section
15-112 of Title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes, and such insignias are displayed
as provided in Section 15-112 of Title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable
as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
State Law Reference: Handicapped insignia, application and display on vehicles,
47 O.S. Section 15-112.
ARTICLE D.
TURNING AND SIGNALS
15-250: REQUIRED POSITION, METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
      1.   Right turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway; or
      2.   Left turns on two-way roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the right of such
center line where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the
right of the center line of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the
left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-601.
15-251: TURNS AND U-TURNS.
   A.   The board of trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall place
proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when
such turns are permitted.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
State Law Reference: Authority to prohibit turning at intersections, 47 O.S.
Section 15-102(a).
15-252: TURNING, STOPPING SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   A.   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon giving
a signal of intention, as provided in this section, in the event any other
traffic may be affected by such movement.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred (100) feet
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle except
upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the driver of
any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to give such
signal.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-604.
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
SECTION:
15-301: Obedience to devices.
15-302: Necessity of signs.
15-303: Interference with devices, or signs or signals.
15-304: Presumption of legality.
15-305: Ratification of existing devices.
15-306: Traffic-control signal legend.
15-307: Flashing signals.
15-308: Driving within traffic lanes.
15-309: One-way streets, alleys designation.
15-310: Designation of through streets.
15-311: Signs at through streets.
15-312: Procedures at stop signs.
15-313: Procedure at yield signs.
15-301: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this part unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this part.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-201(a).
15-302: NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provision of the part for which official traffic-control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-201(b).
15-303: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, OR SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-207.
15-304: PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   A.   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   B.   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
15-305: RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this part and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic-control devices, provided such traffic-control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
15-306: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall
indicate appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
provided by applicable state law.
15-307: FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   1.   Flashing red (stop signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; or
   2.   Flashing yellow (caution signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-204.
15-308: DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES.
   A.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   B.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others
consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety;
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation; and
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-309.
15-309: ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS DESIGNATION.
   A.   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this town designates any one-
way street or alley the appropriate town personnel shall place and maintain
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   B.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Sections 11-308, 15-102(a).
15-310: DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS.
   The board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may designate any street or
part of a street a through street.
State Law Reference: Authority to designate through streets, 47 O.S. 1971,
Section 15-108.
15-311: SIGNS AT THROUGH STREETS.
   Whenever a through street is designated by the board of trustees, the
appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign,
or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection
a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through street unless
traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control
signals.
15-312: PROCEDURES AT STOP SIGNS.
   A.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   B.   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Sections 11-403(b), 11-703(d).
13-313: PROCEDURE AT YIELD SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway. The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is
driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so
yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding, provided, however, that
if such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or
vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping,
such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to yield
right-of-way.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Sections 11-403(c), 11-703(c).
CHAPTER 4   
BICYCLES
SECTION:
15-401: Regulations applicable generally.
15-402: Traffic laws and regulations apply.
15-403: Obedience to traffic-control devices.
15-404: Riding on bicycles.
15-405: Use right side of roadway.
15-406: Riding abreast.
15-407: Speed.
15-408: Riding on sidewalks.
15-409: Lights and reflectors.
15-401: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any act
required by the provisions of this chapter. The parent of any child or the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this
chapter are applicable to bicycles operated upon any street or highway or upon
any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1201.
15-402: TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the driver of
a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions of law and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1202.
15-403: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
trafficcontrol signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person
operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where
such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event
such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. Any
person may walk bicycles and shall then be subject to all laws applicable to
pedestrians.
15-404: RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1203.
15-405: USE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
15-406: RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
15-407: SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
15-408: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town.
15-409: LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on
the frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred (500) feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type approved by the state department of public safety, which shall be visible
from all distances from three hundred (300) feet to five hundred (500) feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor
vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred
(500) feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
State Law Reference: Similar provisions, 47 O.S. Section 11-1207(a).
CHAPTER 5
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-501: Purpose and effect of impoundment provisions.
15-502: Place of impoundment.
15-503: Duration of impoundment.
15-504: Police granted authority to impound vehicles.
15-505: Disabled vehicles.
15-506: Vehicles on bridge.
15-507: Arrest and detention of driver of vehicle.
15-508: Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard.
15-509: Illegal trespass by vehicle.
15-510: Vehicles parked overtime.
15-511: Vehicles blocking fire exits or hydrants.
15-512: Vehicles parked in intersection.
15-513: Stolen vehicles; recovery by police.
15-514: Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations.
15-515: Inventory of impounded vehicles.
15-501: PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
State Law Reference: Grounds for removal of vehicles on highway by state, 47
O.S. Section 955; removal of abandoned vehicles on private property, 47 O.S.
Section 954A.
15-502: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the town
board of trustees, and to no other place.
15-503: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or other proper
police officer.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
15-504: POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the police department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
15-505: DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   2.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
15-506: VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
15-507: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
15-508: VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
15-509: ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   A.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this code may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   B.   If a violation of the provisions of this code occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   C.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this code
have been violated, the police department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage.
15-510: VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this code regarding more than twenty-four (24)
hours, shall be impounded.
15-511: VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
15-512: VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
15-513: STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or cannot be
determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified the vehicle
may be impounded.
15-514: VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued, for
violation of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be
impounded if parked in violation of any provision of this part.
15-515: INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two (2) or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his property, the protection of
town law enforcement personnel, and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle.
CHAPTER 6
PENALTIES
SECTION:
15-601: Penalty for violations.
15-601: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Any violations of the provisions of this part shall be punishable as
provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
PART 16
TRANSPORTATION
RESERVED
PART 17
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
17-101: Application for utility service.
17-102: Separate service.
17-103: Bills, when payable, delinquency, disconnection of service.
17-104: Rights reserved to interrupt service.
17-105: Damaging equipment.
17-106: Tampering with meters unlawful.
17-107: Procedure for governing board to set utility rates and charges.
17-108: Utility fees and billings in general.
17-101: APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to have his premises connected
with any of the town's utilities, water, sewer, or trash collection, shall make
application and sign a contract therefor upon a printed form to be furnished
for that purpose, and shall pay the regular fees and deposits for installation
of the service.
17-102: SEPARATE SERVICE.
   Every separate premise supplied must have its own separate service
connection with the mains or lines, and the premises so supplied shall not be
allowed to supply water, or sewer to any other premises.
17-103: BILLS, WHEN PAYABLE, DELINQUENCY, DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   A.   Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill for any
utility services by the due date on the bill, the following actions and
penalties may result:
      1.   A penalty of all amount owing on a utility bill is added to any
utility bill which is not paid by the due date of the bill; and
      2.   If the bill remains unpaid after the due date on the bill then the
following actions may result:
         a.   The authorized agents of the town may disconnect or discontinue
any or all utility services to the customer after providing written notice to
the customer of the intent of the town to disconnect or discontinue any or all
of the utility services;
         b.   The authorized agents of the town may discontinue to furnish
water to any customer refusing or neglecting to pay all or any part of a
utility bill submitted after providing written notice to the customer of the
intent of the town to disconnect the water service.
   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to this
section, the town, or its agents, shall not reconnect or reestablish the
service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is paid,
plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
   B.   If town personnel goes to the premises to shut off the service and the
occupant pays the town personnel prior to his shutting off the service, there
shall be added to the bill a sum for the trip made by the town personnel to
shut off such services. All bills, penalties and fees collected as hereinabove
specified shall be paid over to the town clerk-treasurer. Nothing herein shall
be construed as preventing the town from instituting suit for the recovery of
any delinquent accounts.
   C.   The town clerk-treasurer may not accept payment of a water bill without
payment of the sewer service charge, nor shall the clerk-treasurer accept
payment of a sewer bill without payment of the water bill. The failure to pay
any utility bill in accordance with Subsections A and B of this section shall
be grounds for discontinuing any or all of the utility services furnished to
the customer whose bill is delinquent.
17-104: RIGHTS RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The town reserves the right to shut off the supply of water without notice,
for repairs, extensions, non-payment of rates, or for any other reason, and no
liability shall attach therefrom.
17-105: DAMAGING EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to destroy or injure any water
pipe, hydrant, faucet, pole, or other sewer or water equipment erected or
placed by or belonging to the town.
17-106: TAMPERING WITH METERS UNLAWFUL.
   The tampering with water meters or meter boxes of the town, or the placing
of any bypass connection on or around the meters, or the use of any other
device tending to interfere with the proper registration of same is unlawful.
17-107: PROCEDURE FOR GOVERNING BOARD TO SET UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES.
   The board of trustees of the town shall establish rates, charges, deposits,
and fees for utility services by ordinance, motion or resolution, as the case
may be. A copy of the current rates and charges shall be available in the town
clerk-treasurer's office.
17-108: UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL.
   All fees and charges in connection with any customer's use of the town's
sanitary sewer system, the town's water facility system, or the operation of
the town's collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in
accordance with applicable rates set as provided in Section
17-107 of this code. All fees and charges owing for any of these utility
services shall be billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each
month.
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
17-201: Application to make connection to water mains.
17-202: Connections to be made in accordance with ordinance and law.
17-203: Water deposit required.
17-204: Contract for water service.
17-205: Estimate of bill.
17-206: Water shortages, declaration of emergency.
17-207: Restriction on water use in emergency.
17-208: Proclamation and notice of emergency.
17-209: Grievances with water restrictions.
17-210: Penalties.
17-201: APPLICATION TO MAKE CONNECTION TO WATER MAINS.
   Any person desiring to make a connection to a water main of the town is
required to file a written application with the town clerk-treasurer of the
town to make the connection.
17-202: CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ORDINANCE AND LAW.
   Any person, firm or corporation who connects to the water mains of the town
in violation of this chapter or other ordinances of the town or the laws of the
state will be denied further water service until such ordinances and laws are
complied with.
17-203: WATER DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Any person who desires to use water shall put up with the town clerk-
treasurer as a meter deposit the amount which is established. The board of
trustees may establish classifications of customers, such as residences, mobile
homes, and various types of businesses, for different deposit requirements.
17-204: CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICE.
   The application for water service shall constitute a contract on the part of
the person making the application to abide by the following conditions:
      1.   To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by ordinance at
the time the water is consumed;
      2.   To recognize the right of the town to change the rate by ordinance
at any time;
      3.   To recognize the right of the town temporarily to discontinue water
service at any time without notice to the consumer, to install, repair or
remove a water meter or for any other proper cause;
      4.   The contract is subject to all the ordinances in effect at the time
of making the contract and which may be passed and go into effect thereafter;
      5.   The town shall not be responsible for any damage by water or other
cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and that the fact that
an agent of the town has inspected plumbing or appliances shall not be pleaded
as a basis for recovery in case of damage to the premises from defective
plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such premises;
      6.   The town shall not be liable for damages resulting from the
interruption or failure of the supply of water, regardless of the cause
thereof; and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall not be
held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the town nor relieve the
consumer from performing the obligations of his contract; and
      7.   The water deposit, or so much thereof as may be necessary, may be
retained by the town and applied by the town on any unpaid water bill of the
consumer; and providing further that unless the water deposit is claimed by the
consumer after the consumer ceases to use the water or after water is turned
off, then the consumer forfeits all right, title or interest in the deposit in
accordance with state law.
17-205: ESTIMATE OF BILL.
   In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost, injured or broken by
willful action or by carelessness or negligence of owners or occupants of
premises, they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of the owner or
occupant. In case of nonpayment, the water shall be cut off and will not be
turned on until such charges are paid. In the event of a meter getting out of
order or failing to register properly, the consumer shall be charged on an
estimate made by the water superintendent of the average monthly consumption
during the last three (3) months when the meter was in good condition or from
what he may consider to be the most reliable data at his command.
17-206: WATER SHORTAGES, DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   A.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit
the use of water from the town's water system.
   B.   An emergency exists whenever the mayor reasonably determines that the
town's water system is unable or will within sixty (60) days become unable to
supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including
adequate fire protection.
17-207: RESTRICTION ON WATER USE IN EMERGENCY.
   A.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists the mayor shall
issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with particularity
an order restricting use of water from the town system. The order may:
      1.   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
      2.   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The order
may be revised from time to time as the mayor deems necessary.
   B.   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the
mayor shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the board by resolution approved by a majority of
all its members votes to terminate the emergency and proclamation upon a
different date.
17-208: PROCLAMATION AND NOTICE OF EMERGENCY.
   A.   The proclamation required by the preceding section shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the town or, if there is no such
newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty-four (24)
hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of the
proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the town. The emergency shall be
in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this
section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   B.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in Paragraph A
of this section is used, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance
with Paragraph A within twenty-four (24) hours of the first notice.
17-209: GRIEVANCES WITH WATER RESTRICTIONS.
   Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the mayor shall have the
right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of the town
board of trustees or to any emergency session called to discuss the water
emergency. The board of trustees may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly or in
part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon a showing that
compliance creates an immediate threat to the person's health or safety. The
ruling of the board of trustees by a majority vote of all its members shall be
final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the proclamation. Until
and unless the action of the mayor is modified or revoked by action of the
board of trustees all water users shall be bound by the proclamation.
17-210: PENALTIES.
   Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or permits
others under his supervision, custody or control to violate any term of a duly
published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any violation of the
provisions of the mayor's proclamation or action of the board shall be
punishable as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
SANITARY SEWERS
SECTION:
17-301: Declaration Of Sanitary System As A Public Utility
17-302: Definitions
17-303: Sewer Use Fee
17-304: Collection
17-305: Disposition Of Funds
17-306: Penalty
17-307: Setback Requirements For Certain Sanitary Sewer Disposal Systems
17-301: DECLARATION OF SANITARY SYSTEM AS A PUBLIC UTILITY:
   The sanitary sewer system of the town is hereby declared to be a public
utility, and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of the
system, and for other purposes.
(1987 Code)
17-302: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
COMMERCIAL USE: All use not for a dwelling or public building, and includes all
rooming houses and hotels having for rent more than four (4) rooms.
DWELLING: Any housing unit occupied by a single family, and in the case of
multiple units, each unit is a dwelling.
PUBLIC BUILDINGS: The buildings of the state of Oklahoma, the county of Mayes
and school buildings.
SEWAGE: All matter and material placed in the sanitary sewers of the town of
Dickson.
(1987 Code)
17-303: SEWER USE FEE:
   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the sanitary sewer
system of the town and for other purposes, there shall be a system of fees and
charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system of the town, the fees and
charges to be established by motion or resolution of the board of trustees. The
fees shall not be put into effect until acted officially by the board.
(1987 Code)
17-304: COLLECTION:
   The fee for the use of the sanitary sewers shall be billed to each user
monthly, along with the bill for water and other services, if any, and the town
is directed not to accept payment of the water bill unless such payment is
accompanied by the sewer use fee, if and when such a fee is established as
provided in this part.
(1987 Code)
17-305: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
   The funds derived from such fees, when instituted, shall be deposited in the
general revenues of the town to be used for the upkeep, maintenance, extension
and repair of the sanitary sewer system, and for such other uses as the board
of trustees may deem fit.
(1987 Code)
17-306: PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when an
ordinance provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished as provided in section 1-108 of this code. Each day upon
which any such violation continues shall constitute a separate misdemeanor.
(1987 Code)
17-307: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN SANITARY SEWER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Certain types of sanitary sewer systems, commonly referred to as
"wetlands" or lateral bed disposal type systems, may be installed at home and/
or residence sites in the corporate limits of Dickson, Oklahoma, on certain
minimum sized (5 acres or more) tracts.
   B.   Any "wetlands" or lateral bed disposal type sewer system, described as
a system designed to dispose of sanitary and/or human waste which utilizes a
dug pit or "wet box", with vegetation and layers of gravel, sand, dirt, and/or
rock therein, shall not be placed, installed or dug any closer than two hundred
feet (200') from any adjoining property line.
   C.   Any lateral bed disposal sanitary sewer and/or disposal system which is
commonly referred to as a "wetlands" type system, consisting of a pit or "wet
box" and consisting of layers of gravel, sand, dirt, and/or planted "wetlands"
type vegetation, may be installed and/or developed at any residential or home
site within the corporate limits of Dickson, Oklahoma, provided the following
minimum requirements are met:
      1.   The real property where the "wetlands" or lateral bed disposal type
sanitary sewer system is to be installed or dug shall consist of one tract of
land consisting of not less than five (5) acres of realty, said tract being
titled in the name of one owner or resident as reflected in the official
records of the county clerk of Carter County, Oklahoma, which shall include by
definition husband and wife; and
      2.   The actual lateral system, "wet box", "bed" or "pit" of any
"wetlands" type sanitary sewer system shall not be installed or placed in any
location closer than two hundred feet (200') from the actual property line of
any adjoining property owner.
   D.   In event any lateral bed disposal, "wetlands" or "wet box" type
sanitary sewer system as described herein is installed or developed on any
residential site or on any real property within the corporate limits of
Dickson, Oklahoma, without strict compliance with this section, then and in
said event, any citizen affected by the installation or development shall have
the right to private injunctive relief, and in addition, the board of trustees
may authorize, by resolution, the installation of civil injunctive relief by
the town attorney of Dickson if the violation is such that the public interests
are adversely affected.
   E.   Any person, firm, entity, corporation, partnership, or association,
which installs any type of lateral bed disposal system, sometimes referred to
as a "wetlands" or "wet box" type sanitary sewer disposal system, as described
herein on real property within the corporate limits of Dickson, Oklahoma, in
violation of this section, shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof in the municipal court of Dickson, Oklahoma, shall be liable
for a fine of not more than twenty dollars ($20.00) plus court costs and
service fees. Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate offense and/or
violation.
   F.   The department of environmental quality, state of Oklahoma, formerly
known as the Oklahoma state department of health, is hereby prohibited and
enjoined from granting approval or consent to any person, firm, corporation,
partnership, group, or association for any type of lateral bed disposal system
as described herein, if the planned disposal system does not comport with the
minimum requirements of this section.
(Ord. 51, 6-3-1999)
CHAPTER 4
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
17-401: Definitions.
17-402: Accumulations of garbage and refuse.
17-403: Collection of garbage and rubbish.
17-404: Contract and disposal.
17-405: Disposal.
17-406: Inspections.
17-407: Fees.
17-408: Duty to request garbage service.
17-409: Dumps restricted unless exclusively used by town.
17-410: Penalty.
17-401: DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
      1.   "Person" means any institution, public or private corporation,
individual, partnership, or other entity;
      2.   "Premises" means land, buildings or other structures, vehicles,
watercraft, or parts thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored;
      3.   "Refuse" means all solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish;
      4.   "Garbage" means all putrescible wastes, except sewage and body
wastes, including all meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, and carcasses of small
animals and fowls from any premises within the town limits;
      5.   "Rubbish" means tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall
be cut into lengths not exceeding three and one-half (3 1/2) feet), leaves,
etc., from any premises within the town limits;
      6.   "Rubble" means brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen,
wooden, or metal refuse-like materials, longer, larger or heavier than refuse;
and
      7.   "Town health officer" means that person so designated to act by the
town board of trustees, at a compensation also set by the town board of
trustees, if any.
17-402: ACCUMULATIONS OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   A.   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning, managing,
operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage or
rubbish accumulates, to provide, and at all times to maintain in good order and
repair, on any premises a portable container or containers for refuse which
shall be made of galvanized metal or equivalent, not easily corrodible, rodent-
proof and fly-proof, with a tight-fitting lid which shall not be removed except
when depositing or removing the contents of the receptacle, and with handles on
the sides, and of sufficient capacity and in sufficient numbers to accommodate
and securely keep all of the garbage and rubbish that may accumulate between
collections. Each container shall have a capacity of not more than thirty-two
(32) gallons, except where approved type bulk storage containers are in use.
All containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation of any
substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would attract
flies, mosquitoes and any other insects.
   B.   All containers shall be kept in a convenient location for collection,
as designated by the town board of trustees, whereby collectors can obtain same
without going into buildings, garages, locked gates or fenced yards with dogs.
All containers and grounds immediately around same shall be kept in a safe and
sanitary condition at all times.
   C.   All ordinary accumulations of rubbish such as tree limbs, paper boxes,
and scrap lumber which cannot be conveniently placed in the containers required
by this chapter shall be gathered together and baled, tied or sacked in compact
bundles, weighing no more than fifty (50) pounds, and placed in a location
easily accessible to the collector.
   D.   There shall be no open burning on the premises, unless the operations
are carried out in an approved-type incinerator, or approval is obtained from
the town health officer.
17-403: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   A.   The town or its authorized representative shall collect from all areas
of the town upon schedule as approved by the town board. It is the duty of any
person in possession or control of any premises to place the containers
required by this ordinance in a location easily accessible to the collector as
directed by the town health officer.
   B.   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge;
provided, that the owner, person having such accumulations in charge, or
collection agent shall secure permission from the town health officer for
removal and disposal of same.
   C.   Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses and mules, shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having same in charge and
by the method directed by the town health officer.
   D.   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees, and other bulky, heavy materials shall
be disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the town health officer.
   E.   Manure from cowlots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts, and
other animals or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations or
materials considered hazardous and/or dangerous, shall be removed and disposed
of at the expense of the person controlling same in the manner and by the
method directed by the town health officer.
   F.   The placing of garbage or rubbish or any refuse material in any street
or alley within the town limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place
within the town limits, except at such place as may be directed by the town
health officer is prohibited.
   G.   The meddling with refuse containers or in any way pilfering, scattering
contents, or junking in any alley or street within the town limits is
prohibited.
17-404: CONTRACT AND DISPOSAL.
   A.   The town shall have authority to enter into contractual obligation with
those who wish to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse
disposal for compensation in the town. The town shall be limited to contracting
for such service to contract only with persons having proper equipment, meeting
State Department of Health requirements, and sufficient personnel to collect
and dispose of refuse in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance; and
provided further that the method of disposal contracted for must be in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Every person desiring to engage in the collection and disposal of
refuse shall have the right to make written application to the town and shall
make written application, setting forth the name of such person, the residence
address thereof or the address of the place of business, a description of the
equipment to be used in the collection or disposal of such refuse, the place of
disposal and the method of disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of
application all bids may be considered at some time prior to the expiration of
the then existing contract, if any.
   C.   Any person whose application has been denied may request and shall be
granted, a hearing before the town board of trustees.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person who does not do so under a contract with
the town to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for
compensation in the town.
17-405: DISPOSAL.
   The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover.
17-406: INSPECTIONS.
   The town may make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and
all premises to see that the terms of this chapter are complied with.
17-407: FEES.
   There may be charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set in accordance with this code.
17-408: DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE.
   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the town it is the duty
of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the town at the
beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the garbage pickup and
collection service; provided, however, that failure of any owner, rental agent
or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not prevent nor in any
way impair or impede the town from adding the address of such premises to the
proper garbage collection route records and providing such service and
otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures.
17-409: DUMPS RESTRICTED UNLESS EXCLUSIVELY USED BY TOWN.
   The establishment of any city dump or landfill, to be used or intended to be
used for the purpose of disposing of solid waste, including but not limited to
garbage collected from any town or concern, shall not be established in the
city limits of the town by any corporation, person, partnership, or entity of
any type, except where the city dump or landfill is utilized for the exclusive
disposal of solid waste generated by residents of the town.
17-410: PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in Section
1-108 of this code.
ORDINANCE DISPOSITION TABLE
Ord. No. Date Subject Disposition
Ord. No. Date       Subject                       Disposition
         3-4-1969   Granting to Southern Oklahoma
1                  Water Corporation a 25 year    
                    contract.
         4-24-1969  Granting to Oklahoma Gas and
2                  Electric Company a 25 year     
                    contract.
3        5-15-1969  Annexing territory to the      
                   town.
                    Levying an annual inspection
4        8-21-1969  fee and service charge for     
                   operating a telephone
                    exchange within the town.
         9-18-1969  Levying and assessing an
5                  annual 2% tax upon gross       
                    receipts.
         5-19-1983  Amending sales tax ordinance   
                   from 2% to 3%.
         1970       Parliamentary procedure and
6                  duties of the officials of     
                    the town.
         1-17-1975  Adopting the national
7                  building code, electrical      
                    code, and plumbing code.
                    Prohibiting any dump or
8        12-19-1975 landfill in town unless        
                   exclusively used by residents
                    of the town.
9        12-22-1975 Annexing territory to the      
                   town.
10       6-15-1976  Relating to parliamentary      
                   procedure.
11       5-17-1977  Deannexing certain territory   
                   from the town.
                    Providing for funds for
12       5-17-1977  special purposes of the        
                   municipal government of the
                    town.
13-A     1-18-1979  Combining the offices of town  
                   clerk and town treasurer.
                    Amending sales tax ordinance
13       5-19-1983  by increasing the excise tax
                    from 2% to 3%.
14       1-19-1984  Amending ordinance 3 of the
                    town.
15       1-19-1984  Amending ordinance 9 of the
                    town.
16       10-18-1984 Amending ordinance 6 of the
                    town.
                    Regulating and restricting
17       12-20-1984 the use of land and the use
                    of location of buildings and
                    structures.
                    An amendment for chapter II
17       7-17-1986  section 2 and chapter II
                    paragraphs (L) and (M).
17       6-18-1987  Comprehensive zoning
                    ordinance.
17 Amd.  3-27-2002  Adoption of new zoning and
                    land use 12- 201 ordinance.
18       9-19-1985  Designating pay period for
                    the town employees.
                    Model for a volunteer fire
20       12-19-1985 department which has in its
                    employ not more than 2 full
                    time salaried firefighters.
                    Providing rules and
21       12-19-1985 regulations for volunteer
                    fire department.
                    Establishing procedures for
                    registering complaints to
                    board of trustees and
1986-15  7-17-1986  planning and zoning
                    commission of town of
                    Dickson, Oklahoma, concerning
                    ordinance 17.
1986-22  8-21-1986  Establishing license fee for
                    retail package liquor stores.
1987-17  1-15-1987  Amending a portion of
                    ordinance 18.
                    Post-Newsweek Cable, Inc.,
25       11-9-1987  cable television system
                    permit.
26       12-15-1987 Riner waste management
                    franchise.
                    Amending ordinance 1986-22
                    regarding license fee or
1988-28  11-17-1988 occupational tax for retail
                    package stores and liquor by
                    the drink establishments.
29       6-15-1989  Electric franchise to OG&E.
30       1-17-1993  Amending compensation of      Special
                    certain employees.
31       3-18-1993  Election of officers.         2-310A
32       5-20-1993  911 emergency telephone       Part 7, Ch. 3
                    service fee/tax.              Repealed
33       5-20-1993  Fireworks regulated.          10-303
                    Authorizing pay for civil
34       5-20-1993  defense director and storm    Special
                    watchers.
                    Building certificate required
35       6-17-1993  prior to furnishing of        5-109
                    electrical service.
36       7-15-1993  No smoking policy for         Part 2, Ch. 6
                    municipal/public buildings.
37       9-16-1993  Procedures for issuance of    Special
                    conditional use permits.
38       —        (Not passed)
                    Establishing weight and speed 15-216
39       8-31-1993  limits on certain streets and Repealed
                    roads.
                    Establishing weight and speed
39 Amd.  10-21-1993 limits on certain streets and 15-216
                    roads.
40       10-6-1994  Amending compensation of      Special
                    certain employees.
41       10-20-1994 Amending compensation of      Special
                    certain
42       6-20-1996  Fire service agreement; fees  13-211
                    for service.                  Repealed
43       10-1-1996  Amending compensation of      Special
                    certain employees.
                    Creation of municipal court;
                    appointment of judge, terms,
44       8-22-1997  qualifications and            Part 6, Ch. 1
                    compensation; court rules and
                    fines.
45       8-14-1997  Zoning map amendment.         Special
46       8-22-1997  Amending compensation of      Special
                    certain employees.
                    Authorizing the judge to add
47       12-18-1997 tax fees and costs upon       Special
                    conviction.
48       3-19-1998  Repeal and replace animal     Part 4, Ch. 1
                    regulations.
49       7-16-1998  Extension of 911 emergency    Part 7, Ch. 3
                    telephone service fee/tax.
50       12-15-1998 Fire service agreement; fees  13-211
                    for service.
51       1-21-1999  Establishing an auxiliary or  13-304
                    reserve police force.
51       6-3-1999   Setback requirements for      17-307
                    sewer disposal systems.
52       5-18-2000  Mobile home regulations       5-108
                                                  Repealed
52 Amd.  7-23-2001  Mobile home requirements.     5-108
53       8-18-2000  Curfew for juveniles.         10-413
54       11-16-2000 Minors and tobacco products.  10-413.1
55       11-16-2000 Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
56       11-26-2001 Fine and bond schedule        Special
                    amendments.
57       3-20-2001  Changes in compensation of    Special
                    certain employees.
58       4-26-2004  Zoning fee schedule.          Special
59       1-28-2003  Changes in compensation of    Special
                    certain employees.
60       1-28-2003  Municipal Court fees.         Special
61       5-23-2005  Increasing Sales Tax.         7-207A1, A2,
                                                  7-208A
62       2-27-2006  Fine and bond schedule        Special
                    amendments.
63       2-27-2006  Changes in compensation of    Special
                    certain employees.
64       4-24-2006  Fireworks.                    10-303
65       12-18-2006 Auxiliary or reserve police.  13-304B3
66       7-30-2007  Cable permit to Cable One,    Appendix 4
                    Inc.
67       12-17-2007 Curfew for juveniles.         10-413B1, C, E, F, G
68       12-17-2007 Dickson Board of Trustees.    2-102A, B1, B2,
                                                  2-103A
                    Establishing positions of     2-301B,
69       12-17-2007 Deputy Town Clerk and Deputy  6-107
                    Court Clerk.
                    Permitting or allowing
70       7-28-2008  gathering where minors are    3-121
                    consuming alcoholic
                    beverages.
71       8-25-2008  Body piercing and tattooing.  Part 9, Ch. 3
72       5-25-2009  Deannexation.                 Special
73       8-24-2009  Rules of court.               6-112
74       9-28-2009  Designating Police Department 8-108
                    to
                    Condemnation and abatement of Part 8, Ch. 5
                    dilapidated buildings.
75       1-4-2010   Adoption of International     Special
                    Building and Zoning Codes.
76       1-4-2010   Zoning ordinance.             Part 12, Chs. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
                                                  7
77       4-26-2010  Building codes and            Part 5, Ch. 1; Part 5, Chs.
                    regulations.                  2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Repealed
78       9-26-2011  C-3 Zoning District.          12-307A, B1
79       9-26-2011  Animals.                      4-150A, D; Part 4, Ch. 2
                                                  4-150A, D,
80       3-26-2012  Animals.                      4-201B,
                                                  4-204
                    RMH-1 Mobile Home Park;       12-303A,
81       1-27-2014  manufactured homes, mobile    12-304
                    homes and trailer houses.
                    Road and highway              Part 10, Ch. 8; Part
82       12-19-2016 obstructions; Semipublic      12, Ch. 8
                    Community Act; subdivisions.
83       6-26-2017  Ward boundaries of Town.      1-202
84       6-26-2017  Dickson Board of Trustees;    2-102,
                    meetings of the Town Board.   2-103
85       6-26-2017  Highway Safety Code adopted.  15-126
                                                  7-207A1,
86       6-29-2017  Increasing Sales Tax.         7-208A intro;
                                                  7-207A2 Repealed
                                                  Part 12, Ch. 1 Repealed;
                                                  12-205,
                    Town Board of Trustees serves 12-307A, B2,
87       6-26-2017  as Planning Commission.       12-602,
                                                  12-603; 12-604 Repealed;
                                                  12-605,
                                                  12-805C
88       7-24-2017  Rezone.                       Special
89       7-24-2017  Cable permit to Cable One,    Appendix 4
                    Inc.
90       2-26-2018  Weight and speed limits on    15-216
                    certain streets and roads.
91       5-21-2018  Weight and speed limits on    15-216
                    certain streets and roads.
                    Appointments and requirements
92       12-17-2018 for auxiliary or reserve      13-304C
                    officers.
93       2-21-2019  Specific use permits.         Part 12, Ch. 9
94       5-18-2020  Fireworks regulations.        10-303
95       10-26-2020 Drugs and drug paraphernalia  10-404
                    Amending alcoholic and non-   Part 3, Ch. 1;
96       10-26-2020 intoxicating beverage         Repealed Part 3
                    regulations.                  Ch. 2
97       1-4-2021   Instituting Use Tax.          Part 7, Ch. 5
98       9-26-2022  Collection fee.               6-114
99       8-22-2022  General penalty.              1-108
 
 
APPENDICES
APPENDIX 1
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
   Ordinance Number 29, adopted June 15, 1989, grants a twenty-five year
franchise for electric service to Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, for a
franchise fee of three percent (3%) of its gross receipts.
 
APPENDIX 2
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
(RESERVED)
APPENDIX 3
WATER FRANCHISE
   Ordinance No. 1, March 4, 1969, grants a twenty-five (25) year franchise to
Southern Oklahoma Water Corporation for water service and facilities in the
town.
APPENDIX 4
CABLE PERMIT
 
Ord. No., Date     Description
Ord. 25, 11-9-1987 Grants a 20 year cable permit to PostNewsweek Cable, Inc.
                   ("Cablecom of Ardmore").
Ord. 66, 7-30-2007 Grants a 10 year nonexclusive permit to Cable One, Inc., to
                   build, operate and maintain a cable television system.
                   Grants a 10 year non-exclusive permit to Cable One, Inc., to
Ord. 89, 7-24-2017 build, operate and maintain a cable television system.
                    
 
APPENDIX 5
RINER WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FRANCHISE
   Ordinance Number 26, adopted November 19, 1987, grants a twenty-year waste
management system franchise to Barney Riner ("Riner Waste Management")
 
