CITY CODE
of
DRUMRIGHT, OKLAHOMA
2002
Code current through:
Ord. 350, passed 12-9-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Drumright, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 350, passed December 9, 2024.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Territorial Jurisdiction
1-1-5: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying City Property
1-1-6: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of commissioners, this city code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of
Drumright. This city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
DRUMRIGHT CITY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of
commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2002 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2002 Code)
1-1-4: TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this code shall be applicable and effective within the
corporate boundaries of the city, and all other territory over which the city
is granted police power, or other power, by virtue of the laws and constitution
of the state of Oklahoma. (1980 Code § 10-9)
1-1-5: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby
extended to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city
outside the corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein,
insofar as they are applicable.
   B.   All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect in the future
shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the boundaries of all said
outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable.
   C.   Any words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance
provision is limited to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to
mean and include also the said outlying real property belonging to, or under
the control of, the city, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1980
Code § 10-10)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby; provided,
that supplementation of this code by authorized persons shall be permitted.
(2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Conflicting Provisions; City Code Prevails
1-2-4: Court Proceedings
1-2-5: Separability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2002 Code)
1-2-3: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; CITY CODE PREVAILS:
Whenever there is a conflict between the express provisions of this code, and
the provisions of national and state codes herein adopted by reference, the
express provisions of this code shall prevail over those adopted by reference.
(1980 Code § 10-8)
1-2-4: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2002 Code)
1-2-5: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold one or more ordinance sections
or a part of an ordinance section of this code or of an ordinance passed
hereafter invalid, such holding shall not affect the remainder of the code or
ordinance nor the context in which such section, sections or part of a section
so held invalid may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part
of a section may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with the
section, sections or part of a section so held invalid. (1980 Code § 10-11)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The board of commissioners of the city of Drumright.
CLEET: Council on law enforcement and education training.
CITY: City of Drumright, counties of Creek and Payne, state of Oklahoma.
CODE: The city code of the city of Drumright.
COUNTY: The county or counties of Creek and/or Payne, state of Oklahoma.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Drumright".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR OR PUBLIC OFFENSE: Any violation or failure to comply with any of
the terms, conditions or requirements of any ordinance, or section or part
thereof, contained in this code.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Drumright".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Every person, male or female, natural or artificial, and when
applicable, shall be held to be any firm, partnership, corporation or common
law trust.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER; WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to
persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1980 Code §§ 10-1, 10-2; amd. 2002 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2002
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person adjudged guilty of the violation of any provisions of the revised
ordinances or code, and where the penalty is not specifically fixed for that
offense, shall, upon conviction, be fined in any amount not exceeding the sum
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus costs as provided in title 11 Oklahoma
Statutes annotated section 27-126 or any amendment thereto or imprisonment not
exceeding sixty (60) days or both the fine and imprisonment. Whenever necessary
for the proper enforcement of any chapter, article, section or subsection, each
day's violation of any of the terms or conditions thereof shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 236, 1-23-2003)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2002 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Elective Officers; Terms
1-5-2: Appointive Officers
1-5-3: Mayor And Vice Mayor
1-5-4: Qualifications Of Commissioners
1-5-5: Oath Of Office
1-5-6: Bonds
1-5-7: Compensation
1-5-8: Meetings
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 5 through 20 of the city charter.
1-5-1: ELECTIVE OFFICERS; TERMS:
The elective officers of the city shall consist of a commissioner at large and
four (4) other commissioners, one commissioner to be elected from each of the
four (4) wards of the city; all for two (2) year overlapping terms. (1980 Code
§ 1-3)
1-5-2: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointments By Commissioners: The appointive officers of the board of
commissioners shall be as follows:
City manager
City treasurer
   B.   Appointments By Manager: The city manager shall appoint and remove all
heads of departments and all subordinate officers and employees of the city
with the exception of those reserved by the city charter for the discretion of
the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 1-5)
1-5-3: MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR:
   A.   Election From Members: The commission shall elect from among its
members a chairman and a vice chairman, who shall bear the official titles of
mayor and vice mayor, respectively, who shall serve until the expiration, of
their terms as commissioners.
   B.   Duties Of Mayor:
      1.   The mayor shall preside at meetings of the commission and shall
certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by
it.
      2.   He shall be recognized as the head of the city government for all
ceremonial purposes and by the governor for purposes of military law.
      3.   He shall have no regular administrative duties except that he shall
sign all warrants, checks, other orders for the disbursements of money,
conveyances and such other written obligations of the city as the commission
may require.
   C.   Vice Mayor:
      1.   Duties: The vice mayor shall act as mayor during the absence or
disability of the mayor, and if a vacancy occurs, shall become mayor for the
completion of the unexpired term.
      2.   Vacancy In Office: If, by succession to the office of mayor or
otherwise, the office of vice mayor becomes vacant, the commission shall elect
another vice mayor. (1980 Code § 1-6)
1-5-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF COMMISSIONERS:
Each commissioner must be at least twenty five (25) years of age and a
qualified elector of the city, not in litigation with the city, nor in arrears
for city taxes when elected, and must have been for two (2) years preceding his
election, a bona fide resident and taxpayer of the city, or territory legally
annexed thereto, and in case of commissioners to be elected from the wards of
the city, each commissioner must at the time of his election, be an actual
resident in good faith, of the ward from which he is elected. (1980 Code § 1-7)
1-5-5: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every officer of the city, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall
take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation of office as prescribed by the
state constitution, and the laws of this state now or hereafter required of all
persons holding public office in this state. The oath shall be filed and kept
in the city clerk's office. (1980 Code § 1-8)
1-5-6: BONDS:
The city clerk, the city treasurer and commissioners, and such other officers
and employees as the commission by ordinance may designate, before entering
upon their duties, shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their
respective duties, payable to the city, in such form and in such amounts as the
commission may prescribe by ordinance, with a surety company authorized to
operate within the state. The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds. (1980
Code § 1-9)
1-5-7: COMPENSATION:
The mayor and other commissioners shall each receive as their compensation, for
their services rendered the city, the sum of not to exceed one dollar ($1.00)
per year, plus reimbursement for their necessary and reasonable expenses
incurred in the service of the city. (1980 Code § 1-4)
1-5-8: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular: Regular meetings of the board of commissioners of the city
shall be held on the second Monday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
in the city hall, unless a different time and place is so designated by the
board, and may be adjourned to subsequent dates and times as deemed necessary
by the mayor and board of commissioners. (Ord. 245, 12-7-2004)
   B.   Special: Special meetings may be called at any time by the mayor or by
any three (3) of the commissioners. (1980 Code § 1-2)
   C.   Open Meetings: Meetings of the board of commissioners shall be open to
the public, pursuant to 25 Oklahoma Statutes section 301 et seq. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Personnel Regulations And Policies
1-6-2: Employee Complaint; Informal Discussion
1-6-3: Grievance; Formal Presentation
1-6-4: Employee Fringe Benefits
1-6-5: Federal Old Age And Survivors Insurance
1-6-6: Employee Retirement System
1-6-7: Employee Deferred Compensation Plan
1-6-1: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS AND POLICIES:
The board of commissioners, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may regulate
the number and classes of officers and positions of employment in the various
departments, offices, and agencies of the city government, and may determine or
regulate the compensation to be paid to officers and employees. (1980 Code § 1-
70)
1-6-2: EMPLOYEE COMPLAINT; INFORMAL DISCUSSION:
   A.   Jurisdiction Of Immediate Supervisor: Whenever an employee feels he has
a complaint, it should be discussed fully with the immediate supervisor. The
supervisor will make every effort to dispose of the complaint in a fair and
equitable manner and in accordance with the established policy of the city, the
department, or the division. This should usually take no longer than three (3)
working days unless there are extenuating circumstances. (1980 Code § 1-70.1)
   B.   Disagreement With Supervisor Decision: An aggrieved employee who is
dissatisfied with the decision of the immediate supervisor as set out in
subsection A of this section should notify the supervisor of his desire to
contact and consult with the city manager on the complaint. The city manager
will give guidance to the supervisor and employee. The immediate supervisor may
attend this initial meeting; however, the employee may request a subsequent
meeting with the city manager without the supervisor in attendance. If the
informal discussion does not result in a satisfactory solution, the employee
may proceed as set out in subsection
1-6-3A of this chapter. (1980 Code § 1-70.1; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-3: GRIEVANCE; FORMAL PRESENTATION:
   A.   Filing Formal Grievance:
      1.   Specify Grievance And Desired Remedy: The employee who has been
unsuccessful in resolving a grievance in an informal manner will specify the
grievance and the desired remedy in writing to his immediate supervisor. If the
grievance is in regard to a disciplinary matter (formal reprimand, suspension
and discharge), it must be filed as a formal grievance within three (3) working
days of written notification of such action. All other issues must be filed as
formal grievances within ten (10) calendar days after the employee becomes
aware of the issue.
      2.   Hearing By Division Head: (Optional; this step is used only when the
number of levels require it.) Failing a resolution of subsection A1 of this
section, the employee will submit the grievance in writing to the division head
within two (2) working days from the receipt of the decision. The division head
will schedule a hearing within two (2) working days. The employee will be at
the hearing. At this hearing, the employee will be able to present witnesses in
support of the grievance. The immediate supervisor must attend this meeting and
state the reasons for the earlier decision. The division head will give a
written decision on the hearing to all parties involved within two (2) working
days.
   B.   Submit Grievance To City Manager: Failing a resolution of subsection A
of this section, the aggrieved employee will submit the grievance in writing to
the city manager within two (2) working days from receipt of the prior step
decision. The city manager will schedule a hearing to be held within three (3)
working days. The employee shall be present at the hearing. The employee will
be able to present witnesses in support of the grievance. The immediate
supervisor and the division head, if applicable, must attend this hearing. The
city manager will give all parties involved a written decision on the hearing
within three (3) working days.
   C.   Personnel Board; Hearing: The personnel board shall consist of the city
attorney as chairman with two (2) citizens knowledgeable of personnel related
activities who shall be appointed by the mayor and ratified by the city
commission for an indefinite term. Failing a resolution of the previous step,
the aggrieved employee will submit the grievance in writing to the personnel
board within two (2) working days from receipt of the decision in subsection B
of this section. The personnel board will schedule a hearing to be held within
three (3) working days. The employee shall be present at the hearing. The
employee will be able to present witnesses in support of the grievance. The
immediate supervisor, the division head, and the city manager, if applicable,
must attend this hearing. The personnel board will give all parties involved a
written decision on the hearing within three (3) working days.
   D.   Mayor; Hearing: Failing a resolution as set out in subsection C of this
section, the aggrieved employee will, within two (2) working days of the
receipt of the prior step decision, make known to the mayor his desire for the
mayor to personally hear the grievance. The personnel board will forward all
pertinent information to the mayor and a meeting will be scheduled by the mayor
within five (5) working days of receipt of the documents. The employee, the
immediate supervisor, and the city manager must be present at the hearing. The
mayor may affirm, overrule, or modify prior decisions within three (3) working
days. The mayor's decision will be final and binding.
   E.   Compliance With Time Limits: All time limits should be met, unless the
time limits are extended for good cause in any step. The parties should be
notified in writing of the reasons for the delay within the time limits.
   F.   Pay-Benefit Policies: Grievances on pay matters are limited to
interpretations of pay practices under the pay-benefit policies. They may not
be filed with the purpose of changing or challenging such pay or benefits
policies.
   G.   Resolution Of Grievance: A grievance is resolved if the employee fails
to appeal within the time limits required at each step. Obviously, resolution
is achieved whenever mutual agreement has been reached.
   H.   Failure To Follow Procedure: Failure to follow this procedure,
including the proper sequence, may subject the employee to discipline. (1980
Code § 1-70.2)
1-6-4: EMPLOYEE FRINGE BENEFITS:
   A.   Paid Time Off And Extended Illness Accrual Bank: Paid time off and
extended illness accrual banks are hereby authorized as provided in the
employee handbook. (Ord. 291, 7-11-2011)
1-6-5: FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE:
   A.   Benefits: It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the
city to extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof,
not excluded by law or this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal old
age and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act
and amendments thereto, including public law 734 – 81st congress. In pursuance
of this policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (1980 Code § 1-
113)
   B.   Mayor Authorized To Execute Agreements: The mayor is hereby authorized
and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with
the state department of public welfare, as agent or agency, to secure coverage
of employees and officials as provided in subsection A of this section. (1980
Code § 1-114)
   C.   Withholdings From Salaries And Wages: Withholdings from salaries or
wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided in subsection A of
this section are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and
shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by said laws or
regulations. (1980 Code § 1-115)
   D.   Appropriations For Employer's Contributions: There shall be
appropriated from available funds such amounts at such times as may be required
by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer's
contributions; which shall be paid over to the state or federal agency
designated by said laws or regulations. (1980 Code § 1-116)
   E.   Records And Reports: The city shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(1980 Code § 1-117)
   F.   Person Covered Under Other Retirement Systems: There is hereby excluded
from this section any authority to make any agreement with respect to any
position or any employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by
any other ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official
of the city. (1980 Code § 1-118)
   G.   Personnel On Fee Basis Excluded: There is hereby excluded from this
section any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or
any employee or official, compensation for whom is on a fee basis, elective
officials engaged in rendering "legislative" services (including the mayor and
commissioners), or any position, or any employee or official not authorized to
be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (1980 Code § 1-
119)
1-6-6: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
There is hereby adopted by reference, as though set forth herein in its
entirety, an employee retirement system for the city. A copy of said retirement
system, and amending ordinances, shall be on file and available for inspection
in the office of the city clerk. (2002 Code; amd. Ord. 334, 11-12-2019; Ord.
339, 3-14-2022; Ord. 350, 12-9-2024)
1-6-7: EMPLOYEE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN:
There is hereby adopted by reference, as though set forth herein in its
entirety, an employee deferred compensation plan for the city. A copy of said
employee deferred compensation plan, and amending ordinances, shall be on file
and be available for inspection in the office of the city clerk. (2002 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER 1
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Appointment; Term; Qualifications; Removal
1-6A-2: Acting City Manager
1-6A-3: Powers And Duties
1-6A-4: Purchases And Sales
1-6A-5: Interference With Appointments And Removals
1-6A-6: Conflict Of Interest
1-6A-7: Payment Of Claims Against The City
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 21, 22 and 23 of the city charter.
1-6A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS; REMOVAL:
   A.   Appointment; Term; Qualifications:
      1.   There is hereby created the position of city manager.
      2.   The city manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term by the
board of commissioners.
      3.   The city manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications. At the time of his appointment, he
need not be a resident of the city or state; but, during his tenure of office,
he shall reside within the city.
   B.   Suspension Or Removal: The commission may suspend or remove the city
manager at any time when such suspension or removal has been confirmed by a
majority vote of the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 1-10)
1-6A-2: ACTING CITY MANAGER:
If the city manager is to be absent from the city or is unable to perform his
duties on a temporary basis, he shall, by letter filed with the city clerk,
appoint an employee of the city to be the acting city manager until he returns
or is again able to perform the duties of the city manager. If the city
commission suspends the city manager or if there shall be a vacancy in the
office of the city manager, the city commission may appoint an acting city
manager to serve until the city manager's suspension is ended, or until the
vacancy in the office is filled by appointment of a city manager by the city
commission. The city commission may suspend or remove an acting city manager at
any legally called city commission meeting, where the item is properly listed
on the agenda, by a majority vote of all of its members. (Ord. 273, 6-14-2010)
1-6A-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall be chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He shall execute the laws and
administer the government of the city, and shall be responsible therefor to the
commission. He shall:
   A.   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, remove all
heads of administrative departments and other administrative officers and
employees of the city except as otherwise provided in the city charter and
except as he or the commission by ordinance may authorize the head of a
department, an officer or agency to appoint and remove subordinates in such
department, office or agency, subject to such merit system regulations as the
commission may ordain.
   B.   Supervise and control, directly or indirectly, all administrative
departments, agencies, officers, and employees.
   C.   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the commission for, and be
responsible for, the administration of the budget after it goes into effect,
and recommend to the board of commissioners any changes in the budget which he
deems desirable and in the best interests of the city.
   D.   Submit to the mayor and board of commissioners, a report as of the end
of the fiscal year on the finances and administrative activities of the city
for the preceding year.
   E.   Keep the board of commissioners advised of the financial condition and
future needs of the city, and make such recommendations as may seem to him
desirable.
   F.   Perform such other duties as the city charter may prescribe and such
duties as the commission may prescribe. (1980 Code § 1-12)
1-6A-4: PURCHASES AND SALES:
   A.   Contract Or Authorization: The city manager, subject to any other
regulations which the board of commissioners may prescribe, shall contract for
any purchase, or issue purchase authorizations for all materials, supplies and
equipment for the offices, departments and agencies of the city government.
Every such contract or purchase exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
shall require the prior approval of the city commission. The city manager may
also transfer to or between offices, departments and agencies any item or items
purchased by any other office, department or agency of the city.
   B.   Bidding Opportunity: Before the purchase of, or contract for, any
materials, supplies or equipment exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
there shall be an opportunity to bid on the item or items by all known vendors
and by advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation. Items that are the
subject of a state purchasing contract or a county purchasing contract, if made
available to municipalities of the same price, may be exempted from the bidding
requirement.
   C.   Change In City Management: Upon a future change in city management, the
purchasing authority of the city manager shall revert back to a limit of three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) and purchases exceeding three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) must be purchased through the competitive bid system after approval
of the city commission. If, however, a situation arises that threatens the
delivery of gas or water to the city or portions of the city, the purchasing
authority of the city manager shall be a limit of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) so he can make necessary repairs to ensure gas and water can be
delivered to residents. If the city manager makes repairs to the gas or water
utilities in accordance with this subsection, he will notify each city
commissioner via e-mail, phone, or personal delivery of a message within twenty
four (24) hours of taking action. Further, he will provide each commissioner
with copies of the invoices outlining the specific repairs within twenty four
(24) hours of receiving them. (Ord. 295, 1-14-2013)
1-6A-5: INTERFERENCE WITH APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS:
Neither the commission, the mayor, nor any of its other members may direct or
request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from, office or
employment by the city manager where he has been given such authority to
appoint or remove. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the board and its members
shall deal with the administrative service solely through the city manager; and
neither the commission nor any member thereof may give orders on administrative
matters to any subordinate of the city manager either publicly or privately.
(1980 Code § 1-14)
1-6A-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST 1 :
   A.   Restrictions: The city manager shall not sell or barter anything to the
city or to a contractor to be supplied to the city; or make any contract with
the city; or purchase anything from the city other than those things which the
city offers generally to the public (as for example, utility services), and
then only on the same terms as are offered to the public. Any such officer
violating this section, upon conviction thereof, shall thereby forfeit his
office. Any violation of this section, with the knowledge expressed or implied,
of the person or corporation contracting with the city, shall render the
contract voidable by the commission. This subsection shall not apply in cases
in which the city acquires property by condemnation.
   B.   Further Regulations: The commission by ordinance or personnel rules may
further regulate conflict of interest and ethics of officers and employees of
the city. (1980 Code § 1-15)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-8-3 of this title.
1-6A-7: PAYMENT OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY:
   A.   The city manager shall be responsible for the review and approval for
payment of claims for all expenditures of the city. All claims shall be made on
purchase orders properly issued by the accounts payable clerk which shall
certify that the amount is within the approved budget for the account charged.
All claims must be approved by the encumbering officer and the department
director initiating the purchase or expenditure prior to approval by the city
manager. The city manager is authorized to designate an officer of the city to
review and approve claims on his behalf. A listing of all payments approved by
the city manager within the past month shall be provided to the city commission
at its regular monthly meetings.
   B.   All payments shall be made on regular schedules which shall assure
payment of bills in a timely manner. Exceptions to regular payment schedules
must be authorized by the city manager or his designee. (Ord. 255, 9-8-2008)
ARTICLE B. CITY CLERK 1
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Appointment; General Duties
1-6B-2: Bond Required
1-6B-3: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 27 of the city charter.
1-6B-1: APPOINTMENT; GENERAL DUTIES:
There shall be a city clerk who shall be an officer of the city appointed by
the city manager for an indefinite term, and shall perform all clerical duties
pertaining to the city. He shall issue all licenses and keep an accurate
account of all receipts and expenditures of the city. He shall attend all
meetings of the board of commissioners and record their proceedings; keep the
proper books of accounts appertaining to the office; record all ordinances of
the city in a book to be provided for that purpose, and shall prepare and
present to the board of commissioners each month a full and detailed report of
the receipts and expenditures of the city for the month, and perform all other
duties as may be required of him by law or by ordinances of the city, or board
of commissioners. (1980 Code § 1-16)
1-6B-2: BOND REQUIRED:
The city clerk shall execute a surety bond to the city for the faithful
performance of his duties as such city clerk in a sum determined by motion or
resolution by the board of commissioners. The premium on said bond shall be
paid by the city. (1980 Code § 1-21)
1-6B-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Custodian Of Seal And Documents: The city clerk shall keep and preserve
in his office the corporate seal of the city, all records, public papers and
documents of the city, not belonging to any other officer.
   B.   Financial Duties: The clerk shall receive monies collected by other
city personnel and give his receipt for the same. He shall pay all monies
collected and paid in over to the city treasurer, who shall credit same to the
proper account and give his receipt for the same. (1980 Code § 1-17)
   C.   Claims; Register:
      1.   The city clerk shall keep a register of claims and bills filed with
him against the city, which claims shall be numbered consecutively,
corresponding with the number of such claims upon the register.
      2.   The register herein mentioned shall always include in one column the
number of the claims and in separate columns, respectively, the name of the
claimant, date of filing, amount thereof, for what purpose, on what fund, date
paid, the number of the warrant by which it is paid. It shall be the duty of
the city clerk to keep all claims against one fund separate and apart from
other funds and each such claim shall show upon its face the particular fund to
which the same is by law chargeable. The city clerk shall draw all warrants
against the city treasurer, but no warrant shall be drawn until first
authorized by the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 1-18)
   D.   Issue Licenses: The city clerk shall, until otherwise prescribed by the
city manager or the board of commissioners, issue all licenses provided by
ordinance when the proper application has been filed and the fees have been
paid to him. He shall receive all water rents due the city from consumers of
water based on readings furnished by the water superintendent and issue receipt
for the same and shall after such collection, pay said monies to the city
treasurer, taking duplicate receipts therefor. The clerk shall receive all
monies due the city from any source, when not otherwise provided expressly by
law or ordinance and in each and every case shall issue his receipt for the
same, showing the date received, the person from whom received, the amount
received and the purpose of the same. (1980 Code § 1-19)
   E.   Monthly Report; Other Duties: The clerk shall make monthly reports to
the board of commissioners at the first meeting in each month and at such times
as it may require, giving in detail a statement of all receipts and
expenditures of money belonging to the city and shall perform such other duties
as may be required by the city manager or the board of commissioners. (1980
Code § 1-20)
ARTICLE C. CITY TREASURER 1
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Appointment; General Duties
1-6C-2: Bond Required
1-6C-3: Deposit Of Funds
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 28 of the city charter.
1-6C-1: APPOINTMENT; GENERAL DUTIES:
   A.   Appointment; Term: There shall be a city treasurer who shall be an
officer of the city appointed by the commission for an indefinite term who
shall perform in general all duties required by law and the ordinances of the
city. (1980 Code § 1-22)
   B.   City Clerk Shall Serve As Treasurer: The city clerk shall also serve as
city treasurer for the city of Drumright and the office shall be known as city
clerk-treasurer. The clerk-treasurer shall perform all duties required of the
treasurer by the state statutes, the city charter and this code. (Ord. 258, 1-
12-2009)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to receive and safely
keep all monies of the city which may come into his hands and disburse the same
upon the order and warrants of the mayor and city clerk, legally drawn; to keep
in suitable books full and accurate accounts of all monies received and
disbursed by him on behalf of the city, specifying the time of disbursement,
from whom received, to whom paid, and on what received and disbursed; to keep a
separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debits and credits
belonging thereto; deliver to every person paying money into the city treasury
a receipt therefor, and a duplicate therefor to the city clerk, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid.
      2.   The treasurer shall keep all notes, bonds and other evidence of
indebtedness belonging to the city, except those given by himself, which shall
be kept by the city clerk, and such notes, bonds and other evidence of
indebtedness belonging to the city shall always be subject to the order of the
board of commissioners.
      3.   The city treasurer shall pay no money out of the treasury except
upon the order or warrant signed by the mayor and countersigned by the city
clerk. (1980 Code § 1-22)
1-6C-2: BOND REQUIRED:
The city treasurer shall execute a good and sufficient surety bond to the city
in such sum as may be determined by motion or resolution of the board of
commissioners, for the faithful performance of duties as such treasurer, said
bond to be approved by the board of commissioners. Premium on said bond shall
be paid by the city. (1980 Code § 1-24)
1-6C-3: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
   A.   Surety Bond Required For Bank: The treasurer shall deposit all city
funds in a bank situated in the city. Before making any deposit, the treasurer
shall take from each such bank a surety bond of some surety company authorized
by the proper authorities of the state of Oklahoma to do business in said
state, in a sum equal to the largest approximate amount that may be deposited
in each respectively at any one time; said surety bond to be uniform and
prescribed by the city attorney. Provided that in lieu of said surety bond or
in addition thereto, security may be taken consisting of United States bonds,
state bonds or warrants, or other bonds or warrants issued by a municipality
under authority of and in compliance with the statutes of Oklahoma; provided,
that all said warrants shall have been issued pursuant to a legal
appropriation. All surety bonds taken under the provisions of this section
shall bear the approval of the city attorney and the board of commissioners and
all securities accepted in lieu of surety bonds shall bear the approval of the
board of commissioners. The securities and surety bond shall bear the approval
of the board of commissioners. The securities and surety bond shall be at all
times in the custody and under the control of the city treasurer. The condition
of said bond shall be that such deposit shall be promptly paid on a check or
draft of the treasurer of such city and the bondsmen of such treasurer shall
not be liable for such deposit. Such banks shall, on the first Monday of each
month file with the city clerk a statement of the amount of money on hand
belonging to the city at the close of business each day during the previous
month and the amount of interest accrued thereon to such date.
   B.   Banks Outside City: Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the city treasurer from depositing funds of the city in banks outside
the city when authorized by the commission and when such banks shall place with
the city treasurer the same class of security and amount as hereinbefore
provided. It is hereby made unlawful for any of the city funds to be deposited
in any bank in which the city treasurer or any member of the board of
commissioners shall be the owner of any stock or otherwise interested. All
securities or bonds accepted by the treasurer shall first be approved by the
commission. (1980 Code § 1-23)
ARTICLE D. CITY ATTORNEY 1
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Department Of Law; Appointment
1-6D-2: Member Of Bar Association
1-6D-3: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 24 of the city charter.
1-6D-1: DEPARTMENT OF LAW; APPOINTMENT:
There shall be a department of law, the head of which is the city attorney
appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term, and removable by the city
manager, following notice and opportunity for hearing before the city council.
The city attorney is an officer of the city, and has supervision and control of
the department of law. (1980 Code § 1-30; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6D-2: MEMBER OF BAR ASSOCIATION:
The city attorney shall be an active member in good standing of the Oklahoma
bar association. (1980 Code § 1-31)
1-6D-3: DUTIES:
   A.   The city attorney shall advise the city manager, board of
commissioners, and all other officers of the city upon legal questions
affecting the duties of their offices or the interests of the city as may from
time to time be referred to him.
   B.   He shall appear and prosecute any person charged with the violation of
any ordinance of the city on trial before the municipal court.
   C.   He shall represent the city in all actions or proceedings in all courts
wherein the city is a party or may be interested, and shall perform such other
professional services as may be required of him by law or by the appointing
authority. (1980 Code § 1-32)
CHAPTER 7
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Department Established; Appointment
1-7A-2: Duties Generally
1-7A-3: Chief Of Police
1-7A-4: Arrests
1-7A-5: Unclaimed Property
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 24 of the city charter.
1-7A-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT:
There shall be a police department, the head of which is the chief of police
appointed for an indefinite term by the city manager. The chief of police is an
officer of the city and has supervision and control of the police department.
All policemen are officers of the city. (1980 Code § 1-25)
1-7A-2: DUTIES GENERALLY:
It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view or on
warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the city; to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions, and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the office of police officers. The police department has
charge of and operates the city jail. (1980 Code § 1-26)
1-7A-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Duties: The chief of police shall be the chief peace officer of the
city. He shall arrest offenders against any of the ordinances of the city, and
do general police duty in the city, and attend upon the municipal court. He
shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be required of him by
law or ordinance. (1980 Code § 1-27)
   B.   Bond: The commission may require the chief of police to execute a
surety bond to the city for the faithful performance of his duties. If
required, the bond shall be in a sum determined by motion or resolution by the
board of commissioners. If required, the premium shall be paid by the city.
(1980 Code § 1-29)
1-7A-4: ARRESTS:
The chief of police or any other police officer shall have power to make or
order an arrest, with proper processes, for any offense against the laws of the
state or of the city and without process when such offenses are committed in
his presence. (1980 Code § 1-28)
1-7A-5: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Complete Record Required: All personal property which comes into the
possession of any police officer, which has been found or stolen or taken off
the person or out of the possession of any prisoner or person suspected of, or
charged with, being a criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person
laying claim thereto, shall be by the officer securing possession thereof,
delivered into the charge of the chief of police. The chief shall, in a
permanent record book kept for that purpose, make a record sufficient to
identify the property, with the date and circumstances of the receipt thereof,
the name of the person from whom it was taken and the place where it was found;
and the record shall also disclose the subsequent disposal thereof, giving the
date of sale, name and address of the purchaser, and the amount for which it
was sold. (1980 Code § 17-1)
   B.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Property: Any unclaimed personal property
other than animals, which remains in the possession of the chief of police,
unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not to him satisfactorily established,
for a period of ninety (90) days, shall be sold, and the proceeds of the sale
shall be paid over to the city clerk, who shall issue his receipt therefor and
deposit the same to the credit of the general fund of the city, except such
personal property as in the opinion of the mayor can be more advantageously
used by some department or office of the city government. Ten (10) days before
a sale of such unclaimed property, the chief of police shall sign and have
posted in a conspicuous place in the city clerk's office, where it will be
plainly visible to persons who visit that office, notice of the time, place and
manner of such sale and general description of the property to be sold.
Provided that, if in the opinion of the mayor, all or any portion of the
personal property may be more advantageously used in any city department or
office, he shall so instruct the chief of police in writing and the chief shall
thereupon deliver the personal property designated to that department or office
of city government and make a permanent record of its disposition. (1980 Code §
17-2; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Property Found By Private Person: Any personal property found by a
person other than a public official or employee, which is delivered to any
police officer for identification, if not claimed or identified within ninety
(90) days, shall within ten (10) additional days thereafter, if requested by
the finder, be returned to him, and a record of such disposal made thereof. If
the finder does not request return of the property to him within such
additional ten (10) days, then the chief of police shall sell the property as
if it had been found by a public official or employee or on instruction by the
mayor deliver it to some department or office of the city government for its
use. (1980 Code § 17-3; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Recovery By Owner: If any property is sold as herein provided, and the
owner thereof takes and recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the
amount paid therefor shall be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim
being submitted and approved by the city commission. (1980 Code § 17-4)
ARTICLE B. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Department Established; Appointment
1-7B-2: Authority Of Chief Over Department, Equipment
1-7B-3: Duties And Responsibilities Of Chief
1-7B-4: Assistant Chief
1-7B-5: Police Powers Of Department
1-7B-6: Control Over Persons And Property
1-7B-7: Discipline
1-7B-8: Firefighters; Desired Qualifications
1-7B-9: Probation Period Of Employment
1-7B-10: Compensation
1-7B-11: Firefighters Pension And Retirement System
1-7B-12: Reports By Fire Chief
1-7B-13: Volunteer Firefighters
1-7B-14: Monthly Meetings
1-7B-15: Secretary
1-7B-16: Alarm Of Fire
1-7B-17: Police Officers Act As Fire Guard
1-7B-18: Vehicles And Pedestrians; Duty Upon Alarm Of Fire
1-7B-19: False Alarms; Prohibited Acts
1-7B-20: Penalty
1-7B-21: Fire Protection Fee Scale
1-7B-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Appointment: There shall be a Fire Department, the head of which is the
Chief of the Fire Department, or Fire Chief, appointed for an indefinite term
by the City Manager. The Chief of the Fire Department is an officer of the
City, and has supervision and control of the Fire Department. (1980 Code § 1-
33)
   B.   Terms Synonymous: In this article the terms "firefighter" and "firemen"
shall be interpreted as being synonymous and interchangeable. (1980 Code § 1-
52)
1-7B-2: AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OVER DEPARTMENT, EQUIPMENT:
The Fire Chief shall safeguard and securely keep all fire apparatus, hose, and
other appliances used by the Fire Department in extinguishing fires in the
City, and he shall account for all such property as may come into his hands
during his term of office. He shall have full authority over the Fire
Department whenever they are in active service and, in the absence of the
Chief, the duties devolving upon the Chief of the department shall be performed
by the Assistant Chief on duty. (1980 Code § 1-34)
1-7B-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHIEF:
   A.   The Chief shall be at the head of the department, subject to the laws
of the State of Oklahoma, ordinances of the City, and the rules and regulations
herein adopted.
   B.   The Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him.
   C.   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cisterns, and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year. The Water Department will assist in flushing operations.
   D.   The Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection, and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
   E.   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties.
   F.   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards
in the community and on the activities of the department.
   G.   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case. (1980 Code § 1-35)
1-7B-4: ASSISTANT CHIEF:
In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on duty shall command the
department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the chief. (1980 Code § 1-36)
1-7B-5: POLICE POWERS OF DEPARTMENT:
The fire chief and assistant fire chiefs are hereby given all the authority of
police officers of the city so far as necessary in the exercise of their duty,
and are hereby authorized to make arrests for interference in the discharge of
the duties of their office, or for any interference with the operation of the
fire department. (1980 Code § 1-37)
1-7B-6: CONTROL OVER PERSONS AND PROPERTY:
The fire chief or assistant chief on duty shall have full power, control, and
command over all persons and property at fires, shall station the fire
apparatus, and see that all members of the fire department perform the duties
prescribed by ordinance and the rules of the department. He shall direct such
measures as he shall deem most advisable for the extinguishment of fires and
establish lines or zones as are needed; and every person who shall obstruct,
hinder, or resist him or any member of the department in the performance of
their duties shall be guilty of an offense. (1980 Code § 1-38)
1-7B-7: DISCIPLINE:
   A.   Enforcement: It is the duty of the chief of the fire department to
enforce such discipline in the fire department as prescribed by ordinance or as
may be contained in rules of conduct formulated by the fire chief with the
approval of the appropriate authorities of the city.
   B.   Standards For Imposing Penalties: The measuring out of penalties for
breach of duty, unauthorized absence, conduct detrimental to the morale and
effectiveness of the department, conduct reflecting on another employee of the
department or on the city or for violation of other rules as established by
subsection A of this section shall be by such standards as to protect the
interests of the fire department, to promote good discipline so that the morale
and effectiveness of the department, in whole or in part, will be best served,
and that the principle of fairness to the employee involved in the violation
will be preserved.
   C.   Suspension For Insubordination: The fire chief shall have the right,
and the obligation, to suspend instanter, with discharge or release from
employment intended, any firefighter, regular or volunteer, who is
insubordinate by reason of persistent or determined refusal to do as instructed
or requested, subject to the rights of review, if any, provided by this code.
This right and duty of immediate suspension of an employee by the fire chief
also shall apply in like degree to any firefighter who is charged by the fire
chief with theft, immoral conduct, wilfully destroying property of the city or
of another employee, fighting on city property or while in the performance of
duty as a firefighter or any conduct detrimental to the morals, discipline or
welfare of the fire department. (1980 Code § 1-39)
1-7B-8: FIREFIGHTERS; DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Firefighters, regular or volunteer, shall be selected upon their ability to
meet the following requirements:
   A.   Knowledge of firefighting and prevention;
   B.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment;
   C.   Disposition to follow orders;
   D.   Capacity to learn; and
   E.   Potential as leaders of others. (1980 Code § 1-42)
1-7B-9: PROBATION PERIOD OF EMPLOYMENT:
All new members of the fire department, regular or volunteer, shall be on
probation for one year after their appointment. (1980 Code § 1-43)
1-7B-10: COMPENSATION:
The chief of the fire department and all members of the fire department shall
receive such compensation as may be provided by the board of commissioners.
(1980 Code § 1-44)
1-7B-11: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: The firefighters pension and retirement
system shall be operated in accordance with state law relating to said system
and pensions and other benefits shall be paid as provided by state law. (1980
Code § 1-111)
   B.   Deductions From Salaries; Deposits With State:
      1.   Fire Department: Deductions From Salaries: Each municipality having
a paid member of a fire department shall deduct monthly from the salary of each
member of the fire department of such municipality the following amounts:
         a.   Beginning January 1, 1981, an amount equal to four percent (4%)
of the actual paid base salary of each member of the fire department;
         b.   Beginning on January 1, 1982, an amount equal to six percent (6%)
of the actual paid base salary of each member of the fire department; and
         c.   Beginning January 1, 1983, an amount equal to eight percent (8%)
of the actual paid base salary of each member of the fire department. The
deduction shall be considered the minimum deduction. The members of a fire
department, by a majority vote of its paid members, may vote to increase the
amount of the deduction. The treasurer of each municipality shall deduct the
authorized deductions from the salary of each paid member of the fire
department. The treasurer of the municipality shall deposit monthly in the
system the amount deducted from the salary of each member of the fire
department.
      2.   Deposits With State Board: Each municipality having a paid member of
a fire department shall deposit monthly with the state board the following
amounts of money:
         a.   Commencing on January 1, 1981, an amount equal to four percent
(4%) of the total actual paid base salaries of the members of the fire
department;
         b.   Commencing on January 1, 1982, an amount equal to six percent
(6%) of the total actual paid base salaries of the members of the fire
department;
         c.   Commencing on January 1, 1983, an amount equal to eight percent
(8%) of the total actual paid base salaries of the members of the fire
department; and
         d.   Commencing on January 1, 1984, an amount equal to ten percent
(10%) of the total actual paid base salaries of the members of the fire
department.
      3.   Volunteer Members; Deductions From Salaries: Each municipality
having a volunteer member of a fire department shall deposit yearly with the
state board the following amounts of money:
         a.   Commencing on January 1, 1981, twenty dollars ($20.00) for each
volunteer member of the department;
         b.   Commencing on January 1, 1983, forty dollars ($40.00) for each
volunteer member of the department; and
         c.   Commencing on July 1, 1985, sixty dollars ($60.00) for each
volunteer member of the department. Provided, the above mentioned volunteer
municipal contributions shall be reevaluated by the next scheduled actuarial
study and the amounts adjusted so that in a nine (9) year period of time, the
amounts would reflect the actuarial recommendations at that time.
      4.   Failure To Comply: Any municipality that fails to comply with the
provisions of this section shall not be entitled to its proportionate share of
the motor fuel excise tax which is received through the Oklahoma tax
commission. Provided, however, any municipality that has heretofore exceeded
the amount of contributions required by this section is authorized to continue
making such contribution. Provided, however, that any municipality is
authorized by ordinance or charter provision to exceed the amount of
contribution required by this section.
      5.   Controlling Provisions: The provisions of this section shall
supersede any city charter provision in direct conflict with this section.
(1980 Code § 1-112)
1-7B-12: REPORTS BY FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Report Members To Clerk: It is the duty of the chief of the fire
department to register and maintain on a current basis a report to the city
clerk containing the names of each and every member of the fire department, his
job title and service date of employment or reemployment.
   B.   Report Fires To Commission: The chief of the fire department shall make
an annual report, or periodic report if so requested, to the commission, of all
fires occurring in the city and the causes thereof. This report also shall
contain a similar documentation of fires outside the city that were attended by
the fire department. (1980 Code § 1-45)
1-7B-13: VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   Respond To Fires: All volunteer firefighters are required, when
notified, to respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   Attend Meetings: Volunteer firefighters are required to be present at
all regular meetings, call meetings, and training sessions and schools
presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   C.   Follow Orders Of Chief: Volunteer firefighters shall perform such
duties as may be directed by the fire chief.
   D.   Rules Of Conduct: Volunteer firefighters shall be subject to the same
rules of conduct as outlined in section
1-7B-7 of this article.
   E.   Dismissal For Unexcused Absences: Any volunteer having two (2)
unexcused absences in succession or three (3) unexcused absences in a three (3)
month period will be dismissed. (1980 Code § 1-46)
1-7B-14: MONTHLY MEETINGS:
To perfect the members of the fire department, regular and volunteer, in their
duties, preserve the organization thereof, and keep the fire apparatus and
department premises in good order, the department shall hold regular meetings
as the chief shall direct and at least one such meeting per month, and such
other drills as the fire chief shall prescribe. All members of the fire
department shall attend the meetings unless excused by the fire chief. (1980
Code § 1-47)
1-7B-15: SECRETARY:
One member of the fire department shall be elected to position of secretary, by
the fire department personnel, unless otherwise appointed by the fire chief,
who shall have the following duties:
   A.   Call the roll; and
   B.   Make notes of the business transacted or action taken. (1980 Code § 1-
48)
1-7B-16: ALARM OF FIRE:
The fire chief, upon an alarm of fire, shall immediately go to the place of
such fire; and all officers and members of said department shall report to him,
or to the persons having command in his absence, and at once obey his orders.
(1980 Code § 1-40)
1-7B-17: POLICE OFFICERS ACT AS FIRE GUARD:
   A.   Charge Of Property: At all fires within the city, the city police
officers shall act as fire guard, under the direction and control of the fire
chief. It shall be the duty of the fire guard to take charge and possession of
all property removed from buildings and fires, and under direction of the fire
chief restore the same to the owners thereof.
   B.   Protection Of Hose: It shall be the further duty of the fire guard to
prevent the hose from being trodden upon or injured at fires, and to so control
the crowd that the firemen shall not be hindered in their work. Any person
failing to comply with the directions or orders of the fire guard or who trod
upon, drive over or otherwise injure fire hose shall be guilty of an offense.
(1980 Code § 1-41)
1-7B-18: VEHICLES AND PEDESTRIANS; DUTY UPON ALARM OF FIRE:
   A.   Vehicles: Upon the sounding of a fire alarm, it shall be the duty and
obligation of all drivers of vehicles, of any and all kinds, to drive at once
to the right side of the street and stop and remain there until the fire alarm
ceases.
   B.   Pedestrians: All pedestrians shall clear the streets in such cases.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be an offense
and punished as provided by this article. (1980 Code § 1-49)
1-7B-19: FALSE ALARMS; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   False Alarms: Any person who shall turn in any false fire alarm to the
Fire Department or any officer thereof, or to any other department of the City,
or cause such false alarm to be so reported shall be guilty of an offense and
punished as provided by this article.
   B.   Failure To Comply With Firefighter: Any person who shall neglect or
refuse to comply with any of the directions of the Fire Chief, an Assistant
Chief, or Fire Guard as specified in this Code or by ordinance, shall be guilty
of an offense and punished as provided by this article. (1980 Code § 1-50)
1-7B-20: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of this article shall be guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1980 Code § 1-51; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7B-21: FIRE PROTECTION FEE SCALE:
   A.   Noncity Limit Fire Run Fees:
      1.   Fees for Fire Department response to emergencies outside corporate
City limits are in line with the national standard of one-one thousandths (1/
1,000) the price of the apparatus.
 
Fire engine  $600.00 per hour
Water tanker 400.00 per hour
Brush truck  150.00 per hour
 
      2.   In lieu of these charges, an owner or resident may contract for
services from the Fire Department on an annual basis as set forth as follows:
Residential rate1:                
 3,000 sq. ft. and under        $100.00
 3,001 sq. ft. - 6,000 sq. ft.  125.00
 6,001 sq. ft. and above        150.00
Commercial rate1,2:               
 2,000 sq. ft. and under        150.00
 2,001 sq. ft. - 4,000 sq. ft.  175.00
 4,001 sq. ft. and greater      200.00
Mobile home or RV park:           
 Each occupied space            100.00
Unimproved land or agricultural:  
 1 - 80 acres                   100.00
 81 - 160 acres                 125.00
 161 - 240 acres                150.00
 Over 240 acres                 175.00
Churches:                         
 Under 10,000 sq. ft.           100.00
 Over 10,000 sq. ft.            150.00
 
      Notes:
         1.    All residential and commercial rates cover up to 80 acres of
land that the structure sits on or is adjacent to.
         2.    Commercial rate covers all buildings on site.
      3.   Oil leases, including pumping units, oil storage tanks, poly lines
and saltwater tanks will not be included in any annual subscription fee. They
will be charged an hourly rate plus cost of extinguishing agents and cost of
damaged equipment, i.e., damaged hose, PPE or apparatus. Furthermore, cost of
hazardous material mitigation may be included. (Ord. 328, 12-11-2017; amd. Ord.
349, 4-8-2024)
ARTICLE C. STREETS AND PARKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Created; Supervision
1-7C-2: Duties
1-7C-3: Employees
1-7C-1: CREATED; SUPERVISION:
A streets and parks department for the city is hereby created. The head of this
department shall be the streets and parks superintendent appointed for an
indefinite term by the city manager. The department shall function under the
supervision and guidance of such superintendent. (Ord. 259, 1-12-2009)
1-7C-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the streets and parks department to maintain and
improve the streets and alleyways within the city, maintain the parks,
playgrounds and cemeteries, mow and otherwise maintain the rights of way owned
by the city of Drumright, maintain and improve the drainageways within the
city, maintain city streetlights owned by the city, and to perform other such
duties as may be assigned by the city manager. (Ord. 259, 1-12-2009)
1-7C-3: EMPLOYEES:
The streets and parks department shall have such employees as may be authorized
and funded by the board of commissioners. All employees shall be under the
supervision and direction of the streets and parks superintendent. (Ord. 259,
1-12-2009)
ARTICLE D. WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Department Created; Supervision
1-7D-2: Duties
1-7D-3: Employees
1-7D-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; SUPERVISION:
A water and sewer department for the city is hereby created. The head of this
department shall be the water and sewer superintendent, appointed for an
indefinite term by the city manager. The department shall function under the
supervision and guidance of such superintendent. (1980 Code § 1-56)
1-7D-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the water and sewer department to maintain, improve,
and operate the municipally owned water and sewer system, including treatment
and disposal. (1980 Code § 1-57)
1-7D-3: EMPLOYEES:
The water and sewer department shall have such employees as may be authorized
and funded by the board of commissioners. All employees shall be under the
supervision of the water and sewer superintendent. (1980 Code § 1-58)
ARTICLE E. SANITATION DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Function
1-7E-1: FUNCTION:
The municipal function of solid waste collection shall be performed through a
contractual arrangement with an individual or company licensed to perform such
operations by the department of environmental quality of the state of Oklahoma.
Any such contract shall be approved by the board of city commissioners. The
contract shall be administered by the city manager. (Ord. 259, 1-12-2009)
ARTICLE F. PARK DEPARTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 259, 1-12-2009)
ARTICLE G. CEMETERY DEPARTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 259, 1-12-2009)
ARTICLE H. COOPERATIVE HEALTH DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7H-1: County Department; Director
1-7H-2: Duties
1-7H-1: COUNTY DEPARTMENT; DIRECTOR:
The cooperative health department of the county and its director shall have the
powers and duties of a city health department and city health officer
respectively for the city. References to health department and health officer
or director of the health department in this code and in other ordinances of
the city shall be deemed to mean the cooperative health department of the
county and its director, unless the context clearly indicates another meaning.
(1980 Code § 1-68)
1-7H-2: DUTIES:
The county cooperative department of health shall perform such duties, and have
such powers, as may be prescribed by ordinance, law, and the rules and
regulations of the state department of health. (1980 Code § 1-69)
CHAPTER 8
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Funding And Accounting
1-8-2: Deposit Of Funds
1-8-3: Purchases; Contracts
1-8-4: Invoices
1-8-5: Warrants; Disbursement Of Funds
1-8-6: Bonds, Issuance
1-8-7: Examination And Audit Of Books And Records
1-8-8: Insurance For Property, Vehicles
1-8-9: Penalty
1-8-1: FUNDING AND ACCOUNTING:
   A.   Generally: The revenues and other resources of the city shall be
divided into funds as provided by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 331, and other
applicable provisions of law; and accounted for as provided thereby. (1980 Code
§ 7-24)
   B.   Sinking Fund:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the officers of the city to handle, deposit,
invest and use the money in the sinking fund of the city in the manner provided
by the 62 Oklahoma Statutes sections 431 through 451, and any other applicable
provisions of law.
      2.   The city treasurer shall deposit daily all uninvested sinking fund
money in his hands in banks as provided by law. (1980 Code § 7-25)
   C.   Investment Of Water Meter Deposits: Money deposited with the city as
water meter deposits may be invested as provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 35-102.1. (1980 Code § 7-26; amd. 2002 Code)
1-8-2: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
The funds of the city shall be deposited as required by law. (1980 Code § 7-27;
amd. 2002 Code)
1-8-3: PURCHASES; CONTRACTS 1 :
   A.   City Officers Restricted:
      1.   No member of the city commission may sell, or furnish for a
consideration, any materials or supplies for use of the city; and any member of
the city commission voting for, or consenting to, or being a party to, such
contract or purchase is personally liable as provided by 62 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 355 and 357.
      2.   The city commission shall not make any contract with any of its
members, or in which any of its members shall be directly or indirectly
interested, such contracts being prohibited by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section
371.
      3.   No officer of the city may become directly or indirectly interested
individually in any sale, lease or contract which he is authorized to make,
such being prohibited by 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 344. (1980 Code § 7-28)
   B.   Authority Of City Manager: All purchases of supplies, materials,
equipment and contractual services for the city, and any sales thereof by the
city, shall be made by the city manager pursuant to authorization granted by
the city commission, and subject to its supervision and control. (1980 Code §
7-29)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-6A-6 of this title.
1-8-4: INVOICES:
   A.   Affidavit Required On Certain Invoices: On every invoice submitted to
the state or any county or local subdivision of the state for payment to an
architect, contractor, engineer or supplier of material of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or more shall be the following signed and notarized statement:
   STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
   COUNTY OF         )
   The undersigned (architect, contractor, supplier or engineer) of lawful age,
being first duly sworn on oath, says that this invoice or claim is true and
correct. Affiant further states that the (work, services or materials) as shown
by this invoice or claim have been (completed or supplied) in accordance with
the plans, specifications, orders or requests furnished the affiant. Affiant
further states that (s)he has made no payment directly or indirectly to any
elected official, officer or employee of the State of Oklahoma, any county or
local subdivision of the state, of money or any other thing of value to obtain
payment.
                                                                           
            (Architect, Contractor, Supplier or Engineer)
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this       day of           , 20     .
                                                             
            (Notary Public, or Clerk or Judge)
   B.   Applicability: Subsection A this section shall not apply to monthly
billings submitted to the state for public utility companies or telephone
companies whose services are regulated by the Oklahoma corporation commission,
but will apply to said utility companies or telephone companies for billings
pertaining to installations or changes in service. (1980 Code § 7-31)
1-8-5: WARRANTS; DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS:
Warrants shall be issued and processed and funds of the city disbursed only for
legal purposes and in accordance with 62 Oklahoma Statutes sections 372, 471
through 485, and 551 through 555. (1980 Code § 7-32)
1-8-6: BONDS, ISSUANCE:
Bonds of the city shall be issued, sold, paid and handled in all respects as
provided by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 331 et seq., and other applicable
provisions of law. (1980 Code § 7-33)
1-8-7: EXAMINATION AND AUDIT OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Examination By Commission: The books of the city treasurer shall be
subject to examination by the city commission at all times, as provided by
Oklahoma Statutes, and the city charter. Likewise the records of the city clerk
and of all other officers and employees of the city shall be subject to
inspection by the city commission at all times.
   B.   Audit By Accountant: The city commission shall designate a qualified
public accountant to audit the financial records and transactions of the city
treasurer, the city clerk, and all other personnel of the city who keep
financial records and make financial transactions, as of the end of every
fiscal year at least, and such accountant shall make such audit and shall
report to the city commission. (1980 Code § 7-34)
1-8-8: INSURANCE FOR PROPERTY, VEHICLES:
   A.   Property: The city commission may insure property of the city as
authorized by 19 Oklahoma Statutes section 627. Any money received as a result
of destruction, damages or loss of such insured property shall be accounted for
and used as provided by said section.
   B.   Vehicles: The city commission may purchase insurance to pay damage to
persons sustaining injuries or damages to property as a result of negligent
operation of motor vehicles or motorized equipment of the city, as authorized
by Oklahoma Statutes. (1980 Code § 7-35; amd. 2002 Code)
1-8-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply with any
provision of this chapter or of any provisions adopted herein, or any legal
order or regulation made pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this title. Each day upon which a violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. (1980 Code § 7-41; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS; WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Corporate Limits
1-9-2: Ward Boundaries
1-9-3: Polling Places In Public Buildings
1-9-4: Absentee Ballots
1-9-1: CORPORATE LIMITS:
The corporate limits of the city shall be as shown on the official city map on
file in the office of the city clerk. (2002 Code)
1-9-2: WARD BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Wards Described: The city shall be divided into four (4) wards,
numbered 1 through 4, and the boundaries shall be as follows:
Ward 1 shall consist of that area and portion of the city of Drumright within
the following boundaries: Beginning at a point being the intersection of the
centerlines of North Smathers Avenue and State Highway 33 Bypass, thence south
along North Smathers Avenue approximately 1,532 feet to the intersection of an
unnamed alley that point is approximately 178 feet north of the intersection of
North Smathers Avenue and East Stiner Street. Thence west along the unnamed
alley to the centerline of North Harley Avenue, thence south along centerline
North Harley Avenue to the centerline of East Cherry Street, thence west along
the centerline of East Cherry Street to the centerline of North Pennsylvania
Avenue, thence south along the centerline of North Pennsylvania Avenue to the
centerline of West Broadway Street/State Highway 33/State Highway 99, thence
west along the centerline of West Broadway Street/State Highway 33/State
Highway 99 to the centerline of North Skinner Avenue, thence north along the
centerline of North Skinner Avenue to the centerline of State Highway 33
Bypass, thence northeast and east along the centerline of State Highway 33
Bypass to the centerline of North Smathers Avenue said point also being the
point of beginning.
Ward 2 shall consist of that area and portion of the city of Drumright within
the following boundaries: Beginning at a point being the intersection of the
centerlines of North Smathers Avenue and State Highway 33 Bypass, thence west
and southwest along the centerline of State Highway 33 Bypass to the centerline
of North Skinner Avenue, thence south along the centerline of North Skinner
Avenue to the centerline of West Broadway/State Highway 33/State Highway 99,
thence east along the centerline of West Broadway/State Highway 33/State
Highway 99 to the centerline of South Pennsylvania Avenue, thence south along
the centerline of South Pennsylvania Avenue to the centerline of West Noble
Street, thence west along the centerline of West Noble Street to the centerline
of South Creek Avenue, thence south along the centerline of South Creek Avenue
to the centerline of Lou Allard Drive, thence west and southwest along the
centerline of Lou Allard Drive to the centerline of South Skinner Avenue,
thence south along the centerline of South Skinner Avenue approximately 427
feet to a "Y" in the road, thence following the "Y" to the west to the
centerline of West 131st Street South/E0720 Road, thence west along the
centerline of West 131st Street South/E0720 Road to the centerline of South
Creek County Road/N3582 Road also the Creek/Payne County boundary line and the
Drumright Corporate limit boundary. Thence north continuing along the
centerline of South Creek County Road/N3582 Road and the Drumright corporate
limit boundary approximately 1,967 feet, thence west continuing along the
Drumright corporate limit boundary approximately 3,699 feet, thence north
approximately 3,398 feet still following the corporate limit boundary, thence
west approximately 951 feet, thence north approximately 1,098 feet, thence
northeast continuing along the corporate limit boundary approximately 323 feet,
thence east approximately 512 feet, thence north approximately 214 feet still
following the corporate limit boundary, thence east approximately 134 feet,
thence southeast approximately 50 feet, thence south continuing along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 4,807 feet, thence east approximately
3,637 feet to the centerline of South Creek County Road/N3582 Road and the
Creek/Payne county boundary and the Drumright corporate limit boundary. Thence
following the corporate limit boundary north approximately 6,284 feet, thence
east still continuing along the corporate limit boundary approximately 594
feet, thence north approximately 6,962 feet, thence east continuing along the
Drumright corporate limit boundary approximately 3,106 feet, thence south
approximately 388 feet, thence east approximately 1,916 feet to the centerline
of unnamed dirt lease road, thence continuing along the centerline of unnamed
dirt lease road south and southeast to the centerline of North Smathers Avenue,
thence southeast and south along the centerline of North Smathers Avenue to the
centerline of State Highway 33 Bypass said point also being the point of
beginning.
Ward 3 shall consist of that area and portion of the city of Drumright within
the following boundaries: Beginning at a point being the intersection of the
centerlines of East Broadway Street/State Highway 33 and South Pennsylvania
Avenue, thence east along the centerline of East Broadway Street/State Highway
33 approximately 1.5 miles to the Drumright corporate limit boundary, thence
south continuing along the corporate limit boundary approximately 2,729 feet,
thence east approximately 6,498 feet, thence north still following corporate
limit boundary approximately 2,727 feet, thence east approximately 1,255 feet,
thence north approximately 78 feet to the centerline of State Highway 33,
thence east along the centerline of State Highway 33 approximately 289 feet to
the Drumright corporate limit boundary, thence south approximately 32 feet,
thence east still following the corporate limit boundary approximately 1,380
feet, thence southeast approximately 416 feet, thence west continuing along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 1,165 feet, thence south approximately
302 feet, thence west approximately 300 feet, thence south still following the
corporate limit boundary approximately 2,304 feet, thence west approximately 2
miles to the centerline of State Highway 16 and the Drumright corporate limit
boundary, thence south along the centerline of State Highway 16 and the
corporate limit boundary approximately 6,828 feet, thence west continuing along
the corporate limit boundary approximately 2,740 feet, thence north
approximately 2,246 feet, thence west still following the corporate limit
boundary approximately 2,461 feet, thence north approximately 2,434 feet,
thence west approximately 1,576 feet, thence northwest continuing along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 449 feet, thence west approximately
1,097 feet, thence south approximately 545 feet, thence east approximately 434
feet, thence south approximately 326 feet, thence west approximately 55 feet,
thence south still following the corporate limit boundary approximately 2,809
feet, thence west approximately 340 feet, thence north continuing along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 1,981 feet, thence east approximately 95
feet, thence north approximately 150 feet, thence west approximately 95 feet,
thence north still continuing along the corporate limit boundary approximately
314 feet, thence west approximately 3,179 feet, thence north along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 335 feet to the centerline of West 131st
Street South/E0720 Road, thence northeast and east along the centerline of West
131st Street South/E0720 Road to a "Y" in the road, then following the "Y" to
the north approximately 561 feet to the centerline of South Skinner Avenue,
thence north along the centerline of South Skinner Avenue to the centerline of
Lou Allard Drive, thence northeast and east along the centerline of Lou Allard
Drive to the centerline of South Creek Avenue, thence north along the
centerline of South Creek Avenue to the centerline of West Noble Street, thence
east along the centerline of West Noble Street to the centerline of South
Pennsylvania Avenue, thence north along the centerline of South Pennsylvania
Avenue to the centerline of East Broadway Street/State Highway 33 said point
also being the point of beginning. Said district also includes a section of
land in the SE 1/4, NW 1/4, of Section 7 Township 17 North, Range 7 East, and
the section of land in the NE 1/4, NW 1/4, of Section 2 Township 17 North,
Range 7 East both being within the Drumright corporate limit boundary.
Ward 4 shall consist of that area and portion of the city of Drumright within
the following boundaries: Beginning at a point being the intersection of the
centerlines of North Smathers Avenue and State Highway 33 Bypass, thence south
along North Smathers Avenue approximately 1,532 feet to the intersection of an
unnamed alley that point is approximately 178 feet north of the intersection of
North Smathers Avenue and East Stiner Street. Thence west along the unnamed
alley to the centerline of North Harley Avenue, thence south along centerline
North Harley Avenue to the centerline of East Cherry Street, thence west along
the centerline of East Cherry Street to the centerline of North Pennsylvania
Avenue, thence south along the centerline of North Pennsylvania Avenue to the
centerline of East Broadway Street/State Highway 33, thence east along East
Broadway/State Highway 33 approximately 1.5 miles to the Drumright corporate
limit boundary, thence north continuing along the corporate limit boundary
approximately 2,479 feet, thence east approximately 7,736 feet, thence south
approximately 2,370 feet to the centerline of State Highway 33, thence east
along the centerline of State Highway 33 approximately 289 feet to the
Drumright corporate limit boundary, thence north continuing to follow the
corporate limit boundary approximately 2,571 feet, thence west approximately 2
miles to the centerline of State Highway 99/Drumright corporate limit boundary,
thence north along the centerline of State Highway 99/Drumright corporate limit
boundary approximately 6,616 feet, thence west continuing along corporate limit
boundary approximately 5,604 feet to the centerline of unnamed dirt lease road,
thence continuing along the centerline of unnamed dirt lease road south and
southeast to the centerline of North Smathers Avenue, thence southeast and
south along the centerline of North Smathers Avenue to the centerline of State
Highway 33 Bypass said point also being the point of beginning.
(Ord. 309, 1-12-2015)
   B.   Voting Precincts: Each ward shall contain one voting precinct only, and
the boundaries of said voting precinct shall coincide with the boundaries of
said ward. Each precinct in each ward shall be precinct 1 of that particular
ward.
   C.   Annexations: The ward and precinct of each and all additions and other
areas hereinafter added or annexed to the city shall be determined by the
boundaries above described herein, and the streets set out as such boundaries
shall be considered as extended through or past said new additions or areas,
insofar as is necessary to determine the precinct and ward of any such new
additions. (1980 Code § 22-2; amd. 2002 Code)
1-9-3: POLLING PLACES IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
No polling place for elections held within the city shall be in any building
which is not a public building. (1980 Code § 22-3)
1-9-4: ABSENTEE BALLOTS:
   A.   Not Prohibited By Charter: The city is a charter city and said charter
does not specifically prohibit voting by absentee ballots.
   B.   Absentee Ballots Authorized: Pursuant to the authority granted by 26
Oklahoma Statutes section 14-101, as amended, absentee ballots shall be
provided in all municipal elections of the city. The issuance of, and the
voting by, such absentee ballots shall be pursuant to the statutes of the state
governing absentee voting. (Ord. 203, 1-5-1995)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definitions
1-10-2: Court Created
1-10-3: Judge Of The Court
1-10-4: No Change Of Venue; Disqualification Of Judges
1-10-5: City Attorney To Be Prosecuting Attorney
1-10-6: Clerk Of Court; Duties
1-10-7: Police Chief To Be Marshal Of Court
1-10-8: Clerk Bonded
1-10-9: Powers And Authority Of Judge
1-10-10: Code Of Procedure In Court
1-10-11: Style Of Prosecutions; Complaints
1-10-12: Arraignments; Demanding Or Waiving Trial
1-10-13: Arrests; Bail
1-10-14: Failure To Appear In Court; Bond Forfeiture
1-10-15: Trial By Jury
1-10-16: Judgment Rendered And Entered
1-10-17: Jurors
1-10-18: Witnesses
1-10-19: Judgment
1-10-20: Fines And Court Costs
1-10-21: Judicial Discretion
1-10-22: Appeals
1-10-23: State Supreme Court
1-10-24: Repeal Of Penalty Clauses Where Applicable
1-10-25: Penalty Assessment
1-10-26: Payment Of Jail Costs By Inmate
1-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall mean:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police department of the
city of Drumright, Oklahoma.
CLERK: The clerk of the city of Drumright, including any deputy or member of
the office staff of said clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal court, not of record, of the city of Drumright, Oklahoma.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, not of record, aforesaid, including
any acting or alternate judge thereof as provided by the statutes of the state
of Oklahoma and by this chapter.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma, in which the city of Drumright is situated. (1980 Code § 12-2)
1-10-2: COURT CREATED:
This chapter shall govern the creation, organization and operation of the
municipal court, a court not of record, of the city, as put into operation by
resolution duly passed by the city commission on October 7, 1980, and filed
pursuant to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-102. If any
conflict exists between the provisions of this chapter and any other ordinance
of the city, the provisions of this chapter shall control. Said court shall be
operative on and after December 31, 1980. (1980 Code § 12-1)
1-10-3: JUDGE OF THE COURT:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications: There shall be a judge of the court, who
shall be licensed to practice law within the state of Oklahoma and shall be
appointed, and, when necessary for the good of service, dismissed by the city
manager as provided in article V, section 34 of the Drumright city charter. In
addition, the city commission may, at any meeting where the item is placed on
the agenda in accordance with state law, by a majority vote of all its members
direct the dismissal of the municipal judge. (Ord. 274, 6-14-2010)
   B.   Term Of Office: The municipal judge shall serve for a term of two (2)
years and until his successor is appointed and qualified unless sooner removed
by the vote of a majority of all members of the board of commissioners for such
cause as is provided by law for the removal of public officials. The first term
of the municipal judge shall begin December 31, 1980. Any appointment to fill a
vacancy shall be for the unexpired portion of the current term.
   C.   Practice In Other Courts: The judge may engage in the practice of law
in other courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his
duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to, or are connected
with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, which are pending therein, or
which might become the subject of proceedings therein. The judge must either
reside in or maintain a permanent office in the city.
   D.   Salary: The judge shall be paid a salary to be fixed by the board of
commissioners and shall be paid in the same manner as other city officials.
   E.   Absence Of Judge; Acting Judge: In the event of the disqualification of
the judge in a particular case, or his absence or inability to act, the mayor
may appoint some other person, qualified as provided above in this section, as
acting municipal judge of the court in place of the judge during his absence or
inability to act or in a case where the judge is disqualified. Such acting
municipal judge shall be compensated as the board of commissioners shall
direct.
   F.   Vacancy In Office: A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the
incumbent:
      1.   Is deceased;
      2.   Resigns;
      3.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      4.   Is removed and the removal proceedings have been affirmed by a
tribunal of final jurisdiction or are no longer subject to appellate review.
   G.   Appoint Successor: Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of
judge, the mayor shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term using
the same procedure as in making the original appointment.
   H.   Responsibility: The judge shall be personally responsible for carrying
out all acts and duties provided in this chapter.
   I.   Removal Procedure; Hearing:
      1.   Proceedings for the removal of a judge shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified, written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed either by the mayor or by twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of
the city. In the latter event, verification may be by one or more of the
petitioners.
      2.   If such petition be filed, the board of commissioners shall set a
date for hearing the matter and shall cause notice thereof, together with a
copy of the petition to be served personally on the judge at least ten (10)
days before the hearing. At the hearing, the judge shall be entitled to
representation by counsel, shall be entitled to present testimony and to cross
examine the witnesses against him and to have all evidence against him
presented in an open hearing.
      3.   So far as they are applicable, the provisions of the statutes of the
state governing individual officer removal proceedings, and any amendments or
additions thereto, shall govern hereunder.
      4.   Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes by a
majority of all members of the board of commissioners in favor of such removal.
(1980 Code § 12-4)
1-10-4: NO CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGES:
In the trial of matters before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed;
but the judge may certify his disqualification or he may be disqualified from
sitting under the terms, conditions and procedures provided by law for courts
of record. If the judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an
alternate or acting judge, appointed as provided in this chapter. (1980 Code §
12-5)
1-10-5: CITY ATTORNEY TO BE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY:
The attorney for the city shall be the prosecuting officer of the court. He
shall prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the city. He shall
be authorized, in his discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings
in error and review from this court to any other court of the state and to
represent the city in all proceedings arising out of matters in this court. He
shall receive additional compensation for appellate work as the board of
commissioners shall direct. (1980 Code § 12-6)
1-10-6: CLERK OF COURT; DUTIES:
The city clerk or a deputy designated by said clerk, shall be the clerk of the
court. The clerk shall:
   A.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparation of writs, processes, or other papers.
   B.   Administer oaths required in judicial or other proceedings before the
court.
   C.   Be responsible for the entry of all pleadings, processes, and
proceedings in the dockets of the court.
   D.   Perform such other clerical duties in relation to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct. (1980 Code § 12-7)
   E.   Receive and give receipt for and disburse or deliver to the city
treasurer, all fines, forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of money properly
payable to the municipal court. Such funds and sums of money while in the
custody of the clerk, shall be deposited and disbursed upon vouchers as
directed by the board of commissioners. The clerk shall pay to the treasurer of
the city on the first business day following court, all monies so received by
said clerk, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed by the clerk for special purposes. All monies paid to the treasurer
shall be placed in the general fund of the city, or in such other fund as the
board of commissioners may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the
municipal government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the
fund in which it is placed. (1980 Code § 12-7; amd. 2002 Code)
1-10-7: POLICE CHIEF TO BE MARSHAL OF COURT:
The chief of police of the city or his designated representative shall be the
marshal of the court. The marshal shall execute any writs and other processes
directed to him, except as provided otherwise in this chapter, and this duty
may be performed by any deputy marshal, or by any member of the police force of
the city. (1980 Code § 12-8)
1-10-8: CLERK BONDED:
The clerk of the court shall give bond to the board of commissioners in the
form provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111, and amendments thereto,
in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). When executed, said bonds
shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for approval, and when
approved, shall be filed with the city manager and retained in his permanent
records. (1980 Code § 12-9; amd. 2002 Code)
1-10-9: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF JUDGE:
   A.   Prescribe Rules: The judge of the court may prescribe rules, consistent
with the provisions of this chapter, for the proper conduct of the business of
the municipal court. (1980 Code § 12-10)
   B.   Enforce Ordinances: The judge shall have power to enforce due obedience
to all orders, rules or judgments made by him and may fine or imprison for
contempt offered to the judge while holding his court or to any process issued
by him in the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of the
state. (1980 Code § 12-11)
   C.   Supervise Juveniles: In addition to his other duties, the judge of the
municipal court shall supervise all juveniles who are either on parole or
serving probation terms or suspended sentences pronounced and adjudged by the
municipal court. (1980 Code § 12-12)
1-10-10: CODE OF PROCEDURE IN COURT:
The code of procedure in the municipal court shall be the same as provided by
state statute for the trial of misdemeanors. The court shall take judicial
notice of all state statutes and the ordinances of the city. Writs and
processes of the court shall be issued either by the judge or the clerk to any
proper officer. All writs and processes of the municipal court wherein a
violation of a city ordinance is charged, shall be directed to the marshal or
the chief of police of the city, or to some other appropriate peace officer.
(1980 Code § 12-13)
1-10-11: STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS; COMPLAINTS:
All prosecutions commenced in the municipal court shall be by complaint which
shall be subscribed by the person making the complaint and shall be verified
before the judge, the clerk of the court, or a police officer. However, no
warrant for arrest shall be issued until the complaint has been approved by the
city attorney or the judge of the municipal court. All prosecutions for the
violation of city ordinances shall be styled, "The City of Drumright -vs-
(naming the person or persons charged)". (1980 Code § 12-14)
1-10-12: ARRAIGNMENTS; DEMANDING OR WAIVING TRIAL:
   A.   Plea By Defendant: Arraignment shall be made by the court. The judge
shall read the complaint to the defendant, inform him of his legal rights, and
of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether he pleads guilty or not
guilty.
   B.   Demand Or Waive Trial: At arraignment, the judge shall ask the
defendant whether he demands or waives trial by jury. The judge shall cause his
election to be recorded in the minutes of the arraignment and entered on the
docket of the court respecting proceedings in the case.
   C.   Changing Decision: An election waiving jury trial, made at time of
arraignment, may be changed by the defendant at any time prior to the day for
which trial by the court is set. An election demanding jury trial by the
defendant may be changed at any time prior to the commencement of proceedings
to impanel the jury for said trial, but if that change occurs after the case
has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter be rechanged so as again to
demand trial by jury. (1980 Code § 12-15)
1-10-13: ARRESTS; BAIL:
   A.   Acknowledge Receipt Of Citation: Whenever a resident of the city is
arrested for violation of any ordinance, traffic or nontraffic, by a law
enforcement officer, the officer shall immediately release such person if he
acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it, unless it reasonably appears
to the officer that the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage
to property if released, or that the person will not appear in response to the
citation. If such person fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant
shall be issued for his arrest and his appearance shall be compelled.
   B.   Arrest Of Resident: Whenever a resident of the city is arrested by a
law enforcement officer for the violation of any ordinance and is not released
by being permitted to sign a citation as provided in subsection A of this
section, he shall be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or
released on his own recognizance.
   C.   Arrest Of Nonresident: Whenever a nonresident of the city is arrested
for a violation of any ordinance, by a law enforcement officer, the defendant
shall be eligible to be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment,
unless it reasonably appears to the officer that the person may cause injury to
himself or others or damage to property, if released. The method of posting
bail shall be as set out in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Method Of Posting Bail: Any resident of the city arrested for the
violation of any ordinance, who is not released pursuant to subsection A of
this section, shall be entitled to be released upon posting bail, and the
methods of posting bail shall be as follows:
      1.   Posting cash bail;
      2.   Depositing with the arresting officer a "guaranteed arrest bond
certificate"; or
      3.   Depositing with the arresting officer a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the arresting
officer, which shall be recognized as an operator's license and shall authorize
the person's operation of a motor vehicle to the date of his hearing but not to
exceed twenty (20) days.
   E.   Rules For Receipt Of Bail:
      1.   The amount and conditions of bail granted under subsections B, C and
D of this section shall be determined by the judge who shall prescribe a set of
rules for the receipt of bail and for the release by recognizance. In the event
of arrests at night, or other emergency, or when the judge is not available,
the chief of police or his designated representative shall be authorized by the
judge, under such conditions as shall be prescribed by the judge, to accept a
temporary cash bond in a sufficient amount to secure the appearance of the
accused, but in no event shall the cash bond be more than the maximum fine
provided by ordinance for each offense charged. The chief of police or his
designated representative is authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be
prescribed by the judge, to release a resident of the city on his own
recognizance.
      2.   The judge of the court shall prepare and furnish a detailed set of
rules for the receipt of bail and for the release by recognizance pursuant to
the provisions of this subsection, including the amounts and conditions of bail
for all offenses. (1980 Code § 12-16)
1-10-14: FAILURE TO APPEAR IN COURT; BOND FORFEITURE 1 :
   A.   Failure To Appear; Forfeiture Of Surety Or Property Bond:
      1.   If a defendant has been released on a "surety or property bond" or
upon a bond made by a professional bondsman and, without sufficient excuse,
said defendant fails to appear according to the terms or conditions of his
bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial or judgment, or upon any other
occasion when his presence in court may be lawfully required, the Municipal
Judge shall direct that fact to be entered upon the court minutes and declare
the bond forfeited. (1980 Code § 12-17)
      2.   The Municipal Judge shall then, without advancing court costs,
certify the forfeiture to the District Court of Creek County, and cause same to
be entered upon the judgment docket, and the Municipal Judge shall be
responsible for effecting collection of said bond with the help of the District
Court Clerk pursuant to the provisions of 59 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1331
through 1333 and 1335. Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of
the bond. (1980 Code § 12-17; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Forfeiture Of Cash Bond: If a defendant has been released on a cash
bond, and fails to appear according to the terms or conditions of his bond,
either for hearing, arraignment, trial or judgment, or any other occasion when
his presence in court may be lawfully required, the cash bond shall be
forfeited, and said monies deposited as other fines, and receipts of monies
from defendants. (1980 Code § 12-17)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-1E-7 of this code.
1-10-15: TRIAL BY JURY:
Trial by jury shall be had in all cases punishable by a fine of more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, unless such jury trial is waived by both the defendant and the
City. (Ord. 325, 7-10-2017)
1-10-16: JUDGMENT RENDERED AND ENTERED:
If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the court must
render judgment thereof, and may fix the punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 236, 1-23-2003)
1-10-17: JURORS:
   A.   Composition; Qualifications: A jury in the Municipal Court shall
consist of six (6) jurors, five (5) of whom may return a verdict. Jurors shall
be good and lawful men or women, citizens of Creek County, having the
qualifications of jurors in the District Court.
   B.   Selection: Jurors in the Municipal Court of the City shall be selected
under the same terms and conditions as are provided by law for the District
Courts.
   C.   Terms: Jury terms shall be scheduled as needed, but in no event less
frequently than twice yearly, if there is any case on the court calendar for
trial by jury. Such terms shall be called by the Judge of the court, and shall
be held during the months of January and July of each year, (if there are cases
for jury trial), and at such other times as the Judge may direct.
   D.   Request For Jurors From District Court: Whenever a calendar of cases
has been made up by the Judge of the court for trial of cases by jury, the
Judge of the Municipal Court shall make written request to the Chief Judge of
the District Court of Creek County, for a stated number of jurors and the
Municipal Judge shall superintend the Clerk of the District Court in drawing
from the jury wheel the requested number of jurors in the same manner as is
provided by law for the District Court until the number of jurors requested,
who from their addresses appear to reside within the corporate limits of the
City are drawn. The District Court Clerk shall then prepare a list of the names
drawn and certify such list to the Judge of the Municipal Court. If, after
allowance of claimed statutory exemptions for jurors, the listed number is
found to be insufficient, the Municipal Judge shall make a written request to
the Chief Judge of the District Court for a stated number of additional jurors.
(1980 Code § 12-20)
   E.   Summons: Upon receipt of the jury list, the Clerk of the court shall
prepare and cause a summons substantially in the following form to be issued
and served upon each person on the list:
   STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
               ) ss:
   COUNTY OF CREEK   )
   TO (Name of Juror), GREETING:
You are hereby summoned to appear in the Municipal Court within and for the
City of Drumright, to be held at the Court Room in the City Hall Building on
the        day of              , 20     , at the hour of        A.M., to serve
as a Juror in said court, and to continue in such service until discharged by
the court.
   Hereof fail not under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said Court, this      day of                  ,
20     .
                                               
      CLERK of the Municipal Court
      Drumright, Oklahoma
   (S E A L)
   (1980 Code § 12-20; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Serving Summons: Juror summons may be served in person by the chief of
police or any member of the police force of the city, or may be served by the
clerk of said court by mail.
   G.   Advance Selection Of Jurors; Notice: The request made by the municipal
judge for jurors shall be accomplished a sufficient time in advance of the
beginning of the jury term to enable the proper officials to draw the jury,
certify same, and enable the clerk to summon said jurors a minimum of one week
in advance of the beginning of said jury term.
   H.   Challenges Allowed: In selecting a jury, each side shall be allowed two
(2) preemptory challenges. There shall be no limit on the number of challenges
for cause.
   I.   Hearing Of Evidence: After the jury is selected and sworn, they must
sit together and hear the evidence and oral arguments of the parties, all of
which must be presented in public and in the presence of the defendant.
   J.   Foreman Selection; Render Verdict: After the case is submitted to the
jury, they must select one of their number as foreman. If as many as five (5)
jurors agree, they may render a verdict and the verdict must be signed by all
five (5). If the verdict is unanimous, the foreman alone may sign.
   K.   Deliver Verdict To Court: The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must
be general. When the jury has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the
verdict publicly to the court. The judge must enter the verdict in the docket
or cause it to be so entered.
   L.   Discharge Of Jurors: After the cause is submitted to the jury, the jury
must not be discharged until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good
cause, declares a mistrial and discharges said jury. In the event of mistrial,
said cause shall be retried at the next available jury term. (1980 Code § 12-
20)
   M.   Compensation: Jurors shall receive for their services, the sum of
twelve dollars ($12.00) per day, plus mileage as allowed by the internal
revenue service for each mile necessarily traveled by the most direct route in
going to and from the court from their places of residences. The claims for
such compensation shall show the location of the juror's residence and must be
verified as other claims against the city are verified. Jurors shall be paid
out of the general fund of the city. (1980 Code § 12-20; amd. 2002 Code)
1-10-18: WITNESSES:
   A.   Compensation:
      1.   Witnesses in any proceeding in the court, other than police officers
or peace officers, shall be entitled to five dollars ($5.00) per day for each
day of attendance plus mileage as allowed by the internal revenue service for
each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to and returning from
attendance at court, but such mileage shall be paid only once for each week of
service.
      2.   No witness shall receive fees or mileage in more than one case for
the same period of time or the same travel.
      3.   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the
clerk of the court, a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for the time
required for the attendance of said witness and for the distance to be traveled
by said witness. However, an indigent defendant who files with the clerk an
affidavit, setting out the following facts, shall not be required to deposit
such sums:
         a.   The names and addresses of not more than three (3) witnesses.
         b.   That the defendant by reason of his poverty is unable to pay the
fees and mileage allowed by law.
         c.   That the testimony of said witnesses is material.
         d.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
   B.   Payment By City: The fees and mileage of said witnesses, for an
indigent defendant, shall be paid by the city. (1980 Code § 12-21; amd. 2002
Code)
1-10-19: JUDGMENT:
   A.   Judgment: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately
by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket. (1980 Code § 12-
22)
   B.   Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once. (1980 Code §
12-23)
1-10-20: FINES AND COURT COSTS:
   A.   Collection Of Fines: If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of
the court shall tax the costs to the defendant in the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, all of
which the defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine or jail term that may be
imposed.
   B.   Court Costs: Court costs in all cases tried in the municipal court
shall be the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) plus the fees and mileage, if
any, of jurors and witnesses. (Ord. 218, 11-2-1999)
   C.   Technology Fee: Effective July 1, 2016, the city commission of the city
of Drumright assesses a technology fee for the acquisition, operation,
maintenance, repair, and replacement of data processing equipment and software
for the Drumright court system in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per conviction. (Ord. 321, 5-9-2016)
   D.   Payment Of Fines:
      1.   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment until the same
shall be satisfied at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day.
      2.   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court
minutes and the municipal judge shall cause to be certified to the district
court of Creek County, said judgment where it shall be entered upon the
district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a
district court judgment, and the city shall have the same remedies for the
enforcement of said judgment as are available to any other judgment creditor.
(1980 Code § 12-25; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 321, 5-9-2016)
      3.   The clerk of the court shall tax the defendant in a sum not
exceeding thirty dollars ($30.00) plus the fees and mileage of jurors and
witnesses, all of which the defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine or
administrative fees that may be imposed, and in addition to any state mandated
fees or costs. No court cost will be assessed for parking or seat belt
violations.
      4.   A collection fee of thirty five percent (35%) of court penalties,
costs, fines, and fees in cases in which the accused has failed to appear or
otherwise failed to satisfy a monetary obligation imposed by the court shall be
added to any such case which is referred to a collection agency for collection.
(Ord. 301, 10-15-2013, eff. 10-15-2013; amd. Ord. 321, 5-9-2016)
1-10-21: JUDICIAL DISCRETION:
   A.   Decision Of Judge: Whenever any person shall plead guilty to, or shall
be convicted of, violating a city ordinance, the judge, after imposing the
sentence, may suspend the judgment, or costs or both, and allow the person so
convicted to be released upon his own recognizance. Any person so released
shall be required to report to the judge of the court at such time as the judge
shall direct. The judge may cause a warrant to be issued for any person so
released if it shall be made to appear to the judge that such person:
      1.   Has been guilty of the violation of any law after his release;
      2.   Is habitually associating with lewd or vicious persons; or
      3.   Is indulging in vicious habits.
   B.   Payment Of Fine Or Imprisonment: Upon the issuance of the warrant by
the judge, the person shall be delivered forthwith to the city jail and shall
either pay the fine imposed, plus court costs, or serve out the full term for
which he was originally sentenced. (1980 Code § 12-26)
1-10-22: APPEALS:
An appeal may be taken from a final judgment of the municipal court of the city
to the district court of Creek County.
   A.   File Notice Of Appeal: To commence the appeal, the defendant must file
in the district court of Creek County, within ten (10) days from the date of
the final judgment, a notice of appeal and must also file a copy of said notice
with the clerk of the municipal court. (1980 Code § 12-28)
   B.   Trial De Novo: In case of an appeal, a trial de novo shall be had and
there shall be a right to a jury trial if the offense is punishable by a fine
of more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs. (1980 Code § 12-28;
amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Order For Bond: Upon conviction, at the request of the defendant, or
upon notice of appeal being filed, the judge of the municipal court shall enter
an order on his docket fixing an amount in which bond may be given by the
defendant, in cash or sureties for cash, in an amount of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00); except
that, if the conviction involved a fine only, the amount of the bond shall be
no greater than twice the amount of such fine. Bond shall be taken by the clerk
of the court wherein judgment was rendered. Any pledge of sureties must be
approved by the judge of the court.
   D.   Appellate Court:
      1.   Certification Of Original Papers: Upon appeal being filed, the judge
of the municipal court shall, within ten (10) days thereafter, certify to the
clerk of the appellate court, the original papers in the case. If the papers
have not been so certified within ten (10) days, the city attorney shall take
the necessary steps to cause the judge to have the papers certified to the
appellate court within twenty (20) days of the judgment. Failure to so certify
within twenty (20) days, except for good cause shown, shall be grounds for
dismissal of the charge by the appellate court with the costs to be taxed to
the city. The certificate shall state whether or not the municipal judge
hearing the case was a licensed attorney in Oklahoma.
      2.   Judgment: All proceedings necessary to carry the judgment into
effect shall be had in the appellate court. (1980 Code § 12-28)
1-10-23: STATE SUPREME COURT:
   A.   Supervision: This municipal court shall be under the general
superintending control of the supreme court of the state of Oklahoma, and the
judge thereof shall be subject to all orders of the supreme court and shall
attend any conference of municipal judges called by the chief justice of the
supreme court of the state of Oklahoma. (1980 Code § 12-29)
   B.   Subject To Issuance Of Writs: This court shall be subject to writs of
mandamus, prohibition and certiorari issued by the district court of Creek
County, in the same manner as the supreme court has authority to issue such
writs to courts of record. (1980 Code § 10-31)
1-10-24: REPEAL OF PENALTY CLAUSES WHERE APPLICABLE:
All presently existing ordinances and subsections thereof of the city which
limit punishment for the commission of offenses against the city and for the
violation of its ordinances to a lesser punishment than provided herein are
hereby repealed. (1980 Code § 12-30)
1-10-25: PENALTY ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "convicted" means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment.
   B.   Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of ten
dollars ($10.00) or more or by incarceration, excluding parking and standing
violations, or any person forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense,
shall be ordered by the court to pay ten dollars ($10.00) as a separate penalty
assessment, which shall be in addition to and not in substitution for any and
all fines and penalties otherwise provided for by law for such offense.
      2.   The court shall provide for separate bail for the penalty
assessment. A defendant admitted to bail on an undertaking by a surety may
include the amount of the penalty assessment in the undertaking.
   C.   Administrative Fee: Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall
collect the penalty assessment and deposit it in an account created for that
purpose. As an administrative fee for handling funds collected as a penalty
assessment, the court is authorized to retain eight cents ($0.08) per
administrative fee and may also retain all interest accrued thereon prior to
the due date for deposits as provided in this subsection. The remainder of such
monies shall be forwarded quarterly by the court clerk to the state treasury.
Deposits shall be due July 15 for the preceding quarter ending June 30, October
15 for the preceding quarter ending September 30, January 15 for the preceding
quarter ending December 31, and April 15 for the preceding quarter ending March
31. (1980 Code § 12-32; amd. 2002 Code)
1-10-26: PAYMENT OF JAIL COSTS BY INMATE:
   A.   The city court shall require a person who is actually received in
custody at the jail facility or who is confined in the city jail or holding
facility for any offense, to pay the jail facility or holding facility the
costs of incarceration, both before and after conviction, upon conviction, or
receiving a deferred sentence. The costs of incarceration shall be collected by
the clerk of the court as provided for collection of other costs and fines,
which shall be subject to review under procedures set forth in section VIII of
the rules of the Oklahoma court of criminal appeals, chapter 18, appendix of
title 22 of the Oklahoma Statutes. Costs of incarceration shall include
booking, receiving and processing out, housing, food, clothing, medical care,
dental care and psychiatric services. The costs for incarceration shall be an
amount equal to the actual cost of the services and shall be determined by the
chief of police for the city jails and holding facilities, or by contract
amount, if applicable. The operations cost for prisoners who are jailed for
more than twenty four (24) hours shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day. In
the event a person requires emergency medical treatment for an injury or
condition that threatens life or threatens loss or use of a limb prior to being
actually received into the custody of any jail facility, the provisions of
section 533 of title 21 of the Oklahoma Statutes shall apply to taking custody,
medical care and cost responsibility. The court shall order the defendant to
reimburse all actual costs of incarceration, upon conviction or upon entry of a
deferred judgment and sentence unless the defendant is a mentally ill person as
defined by section 1-103 of title 43A of the Oklahoma Statutes. The Drumright
police department shall give notice to the defendant of the actual costs owed
before any court ordered costs are collected. The defendant shall have an
opportunity to object to the amount of costs solely on the grounds that the
number of days served is incorrect. If no objection is made, the costs may be
collected in the amount stated in the notice to the defendant. When the
municipality or other public entity responsible for the operation of the jail
collects any court ordered incarceration costs from the inmate or by criminal
or civil action, the court clerk shall be notified of the amount collected.
   B.   Except as may otherwise be provided in section 533 of title 21 of the
Oklahoma Statutes, any offender receiving routine or emergency medical services
or medications or injured during commission of a felony or misdemeanor offense
and administered any medical care shall be required to reimburse the Drumright
police department, city of Drumright or other public entity responsible for the
operation of the jail, the full amount paid by the Drumright police department,
city of Drumright or other public entity responsible for the operation of the
jail for any medical care or treatment administered to such offender during any
period of incarceration or when the person was actually received into custody
for any reason in that jail facility. The Drumright police department, city of
Drumright or other public entity responsible for the operation of the jail may
deduct the costs of medical care and treatment as authorized by section 531 of
title 19 of the Oklahoma Statutes. If the funds collected from the jail account
of the inmate does not have sufficient funds to satisfy the actual medical
costs paid, the Drumright police department, city of Drumright or other public
entity responsible for the operation of the jail shall be authorized to collect
the remaining balance of the medical care and treatment by civil actions.
   C.   Costs of incarceration shall be a debt of the inmate owed to the city
of Drumright or other public entity responsible for the operation of the jail
and may be collected as provided by law for collection of any other civil debt
or criminal penalty.
   D.   The court shall not waive the costs of incarceration in their entirety.
However, if the court determines that the reduction in the fine, costs, and
costs of incarceration is warranted, the court shall equally apply the same
percentage reduction to the fine, costs and costs of incarceration owed by the
defendant. (Ord. 272, 1-11-2010)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Planning And Zoning Board Created; Members
2-1-2: Organization, Rules Of Procedure, Quorum, Authority
2-1-3: Planning And Zoning Board Functions, Fees
2-1-1: PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD CREATED; MEMBERS:
   A.   Composition, Terms Of Office, Compensation:
      1.   There is hereby created a planning and zoning board for the city of
Drumright which shall consist of five (5) members as follows: one member shall
be a member of the city commission who shall be appointed for his or her term
of office as a city commissioner, one member shall be the city manager, one
member shall be the chief building official/code enforcement officer, one
member shall be the chief of police and one member shall be any qualified
citizen who is a resident of the city. The mayor shall appoint the city
commissioner and the resident citizen and they shall be approved by a majority
vote of the city commission.
      2.   The members shall serve without compensation except for
reimbursement of expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
      3.   The citizen resident shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years,
concurrent with the term of the mayor. The city manager, chief building
official/code enforcement officer and police chief shall be permanent members
by virtue of their positions and shall cease to serve upon relinquishment of
their positions. As stated above, the city commissioner shall serve during the
term of his or her office. (Ord. 281, 11-8-2010)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION, RULES OF PROCEDURE, QUORUM, AUTHORITY:
   A.   Officers: The city commission member appointed to the planning and
zoning board shall serve as chairman. The resident citizen shall serve as vice
chairman. The city clerk shall be the secretary of the board but shall not be a
voting member of the board.
   B.   Rules Of Procedure: The board shall generally follow the procedures
prescribed by "Robert's Rules Of Order", but may make exceptions thereto. All
votes shall be recorded individually by "yeas" having an affirmative meaning
and "nays" having a negative meaning. All votes shall require a majority
affirmative vote of those present and voting for adoption.
   C.   Quorum: In order to conduct any business, a quorum or three (3) members
must be present at a meeting.
   D.   Authority: The planning and zoning board may consider and investigate
any matter pertaining to the development and betterment of the city but its
sole power is to make recommendations to the city commission concerning the
advisability of adopting any zoning change, plat map adoption, new street
construction, street names on new streets, and similar things. (Ord. 281, 11-8-
2010)
2-1-3: PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD FUNCTIONS, FEES:
   A.   All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in lots or plats and
streets, alleys or other portions of land intended to be dedicated to public
use within the corporate limits of the city and all requests for zoning map
amendments or variances therefrom shall be first submitted to said planning and
zoning board for its review and recommendation to the city commission for
approval or denial. Upon the receipt of a request for a zoning map amendment,
the planning and zoning board shall call a meeting, in accordance with the
Oklahoma open meeting statutes, post the agenda and proceed to meet. The board
shall adopt its recommendation and forward it to the city commission at its
next following regular meeting.
   B.   The planning and zoning board may, on its own initiative, recommend
amendments to the Drumright zoning map.
   C.   Applicants for a change in zoning classification shall pay a fee of
forty dollars ($40.00) plus the costs of any publication charges which shall be
deposited in the general fund of the city prior to calling a meeting to act
upon the application. (Ord. 281, 11-8-2010)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF PUBLIC PARKS AND CEMETERIES
(Rep. by Ord. 282, 11-8-2010)
CHAPTER 3
LIBRARY BOARD AND THE LIBRARY
SECTION:
2-3-1: Library Board Established; Board Appointments; Terms
2-3-2: Organization; Powers And Duties
2-3-3: Librarian
2-3-4: Financial
2-3-1: LIBRARY BOARD ESTABLISHED; BOARD APPOINTMENTS; TERMS:
There is hereby established a Drumright public library board consisting of five
(5) members. The library board shall recommend to the city commission policies
and procedures for the governance of the Drumright public library. The mayor
shall appoint members of the board and the city commission shall confirm the
appointments prior to the board members entering office. Board members shall be
appointed based on their interest in the library, their individual education
and areas of expertise. Board members shall initially serve terms as follows:
position 1, one year, positions 2 and 3, two (2) years and positions 4 and 5,
three (3) years. Upon completion of these initial terms, all positions shall be
appointed for three (3) year terms. Board members may serve for up to twelve
(12) years total, but the city commission may make exceptions if no other
qualified persons agree to serve on the board. Vacancies on the board may be
filled for the remainder of a term of the person who vacates a position on the
board. (Ord. 278, 8-9-2010)
2-3-2: ORGANIZATION; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board members shall organize and adopt their own rules of procedure and
they may adopt bylaws for their own guidance. They may adopt recommendations
for policies and procedures, acquisitions and disposals of materials and other
matters pertaining to the Drumright public library but any such recommendations
must be approved by the city commission before taking effect. The board may
establish policies related to fines for overdue materials on loan, rentals and
penalties for failure to adhere to library policies and failure to return
materials. (Ord. 278, 8-9-2010)
2-3-3: LIBRARIAN:
There shall be a library director who shall be appointed by and be under the
supervision of the city manager. The library director shall be an advisor to
the library board. The board shall not direct the work of the library director
or the director's subordinate employees. (Ord. 278, 8-9-2010)
2-3-4: FINANCIAL:
All money collected by the library shall be remitted to the city clerk to be
deposited into the general fund of the city of Drumright. All purchases made by
the library director on behalf of the library shall be processed in the same
manner as any other claim against the city of Drumright. (Ord. 278, 8-9-2010)
CHAPTER 4
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Organization Created; General Duties
2-4-2: Director And Advisory Committee Appointments
2-4-3: Powers And Duties Of Director
2-4-4: Enforcement Powers
2-4-5: Compensation; Nonliability Of City
2-4-1: ORGANIZATION CREATED; GENERAL DUTIES:
The purpose of this chapter is to create a civil defense organization for the
city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the city. The duty of such
civil defense organization shall be the protection of the lives and health of
the citizens of Drumright, and of property and property rights, both private
and public, and to perform all functions necessary and incident thereto. (1980
Code § 1-95)
2-4-2: DIRECTOR AND ADVISORY COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS:
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of the
city a department of civil defense which shall consist of:
   A.   Appointment: A director of civil defense who shall be appointed by the
mayor, with the approval of the board of commissioners, and serve at his
pleasure.
   B.   Civil Defense Advisory Committee: This committee shall consist of the
mayor, as chairman, and four (4) members, one of whom shall be the director of
civil defense, appointed by the mayor and serving at his pleasure. The
committee shall select from its members, a vice chairman and secretary. It
shall hold such meetings as are directed by the mayor and its function shall be
to act in an advisory capacity as needed or requested by the mayor or the
director of civil defense. (1980 Code § 1-96; amd. 2002 Code)
2-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR:
   A.   General Duties And Authority; Compensation:
      1.   The director of civil defense shall be the executive head of the
department of civil defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil
defense program of the city.
      2.   He shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for
expenses incurred in the performance of his duties.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the director of civil defense, as soon as
practicable after his appointment, to perfect an organization to carry out the
purposes set forth in this chapter, and he shall have all necessary power and
authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the
chairman or chief of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an
organization.
      4.   He shall have the further duty and responsibility to cooperate with
all civil defense agencies of other governmental units including the state of
Oklahoma and the federal government. (1980 Code § 1-97)
   B.   Formulate Plans; Gather Information: The director of civil defense is
further authorized to formulate written plans and gather information and keep
written record thereof to govern the functions of the civil defense
organization. (1980 Code § 1-98)
   C.   Emergency Situations: In the event of an enemy caused emergency or
emergency resulting from natural causes, the director of civil defense, after
due authorization from the mayor and acting under his instructions, shall have
the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to civil
defense and, if necessary, take control of transportation, communications,
stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and public utilities for the purpose
of protecting the civilian population. He shall cooperate in every way with the
activities of other governmental agencies or civil defense organizations; and,
if required by the mayor, shall have control over any and all funds allocated
from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the city.
(1980 Code § 1-99)
2-4-4: ENFORCEMENT POWERS:
The director of civil defense and other members of the civil defense
organization created by him shall have the power and authority to enforce the
laws of the state and ordinances of the city during the period of emergency and
shall at such time have the further power to make arrests the same as a duly
constituted peace officer for violations of such laws and ordinances. (1980
Code § 1-100)
2-4-5: COMPENSATION; NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
All members of the civil defense organization created herein shall serve
without compensation, and the city shall not be liable for any personal injury
received by any member of such organization while acting in the line of duty.
(1980 Code § 1-101)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
(Rep. by Ord. 270, 12-14-2009)
CHAPTER 6
INDUSTRIAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-6-1: Authority Created
2-6-2: Membership; Qualifications
2-6-3: Powers And Duties; Trust Indenture
2-6-1: AUTHORITY CREATED:
There is hereby established and created the Drumright industrial authority.
(1980 Code § 7-36)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP; QUALIFICATIONS:
The authority shall be composed of five (5) members, who shall be residents of
the city, or the surrounding community. (1980 Code § 7-37)
2-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES; TRUST INDENTURE:
   A.   Compliance With Agreement: The duration, duties, trust estate,
trustees, powers and duties of the trustees, beneficiary of the trust, and
termination of trust shall be in accordance with the revised and amended trust
indenture agreement, dated March 12, 2012, which instrument is referred to,
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out in full herein.
   B.   Beneficial Interest Accepted: The terms of said revised and amended
trust indenture agreement, dated March 12, 2012, are hereby accepted. (Ord.
303, 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 7
GAS AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-7-1: Beneficial Interest Accepted
2-7-1: BENEFICIAL INTEREST ACCEPTED:
The trust indenture by and between Cleo J. Hutchinson as trustor, and Cleo J.
Hutchinson, Max McCall and Fred Dunham, as trustees, dated as of April 17,
1973, creating the Drumright gas authority, a copy of said trust indenture
being on file in the office of the city clerk, wherein the city is declared to
be the beneficiary of said trust, be and the same is hereby approved and the
city accepts said trust as the beneficiary thereof according to the provisions
thereof. (1980 Code § 7-40)
CHAPTER 8
ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
2-8-1: Requirements; Generally
2-8-1: REQUIREMENTS; GENERALLY:
Each and every member of any board, committee, or commission, except the city
commission, shall be required to attend a majority of the meetings of said
board, committee or commission. Any member who shall fail to attend three (3)
consecutive regular meetings shall automatically, without recourse, cease to be
a member of said board, committee or commission. Any member of any board,
committee or commission, except the city commission, who shall fail to attend
more than one-half (1/2) of all meetings in the course of a year shall
automatically cease to be a member of said board, committee or commission.
(Ord. 269, 12-14-2009)
CHAPTER 9
BEAUTIFICATION AND CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
SECTION:
2-9-1: Purpose; Establishment Of Board
2-9-2: Composition
2-9-3: Meetings; Duties
2-9-4: Appeals
2-9-1: PURPOSE; ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD:
The Drumright beautification and code enforcement board (the board) is hereby
established. The board shall exist as a body to assist the code enforcement
officer of the city of Drumright, identify properties in need of code
enforcement, and to notify property owners of violations of the municipal codes
pertaining to property related nuisances including, but not limited to: a)
accumulations of trash and junk on properties not zoned to permit such; b)
excessive growth of grass, weeds, other brush and dead trees; c) dilapidated or
unsecured structures in need of demolition or securing; and d) junked,
abandoned, partially dismantled or otherwise inoperable vehicles or vehicles on
property which are not current with their registration. The code enforcement
officer shall assist the board with the notification forms, the code
enforcement process, identification of property owners and filing of papers
with county officers. (Ord. 292, 11-14-2011)
2-9-2: COMPOSITION:
The board shall be composed of seven (7) members which shall be two (2) members
of the city commission and one member appointed by each of the five (5) members
of the city commission although no ward residency requirement shall be imposed.
Board members shall serve for a term of two (2) years and shall be eligible for
reappointment at the pleasure of the city commission. Members of the board
shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 292, 11-14-2011)
2-9-3: MEETINGS; DUTIES:
   A.   The board shall meet as needed and upon notice to the members of the
board at least forty eight (48) hours in advance. The board, at its first
meeting shall elect a chairman, vice chairman and secretary.
   B.   The board shall determine its own rules of procedure. The board, with
the assistance of the code enforcement officer, the city attorney and the city
manager may more fully develop its policies and procedures so long as those
policies and procedures are in compliance with Oklahoma statutes related to
abatement of nuisances.
   C.   It shall be the administrative hearing board for individuals who wish
to contest any allegation that their property is the site of a nuisance. Upon
the conclusion of any such hearing, the board shall make a determination as to
whether a nuisance exists and may order the property owner to abate such
nuisance within a time frame as determined by the board. Failure to abate such
nuisance shall constitute grounds for filing of charges against the property
owner in municipal court. (Ord. 292, 11-14-2011)
2-9-4: APPEALS:
Should any property owner be aggrieved by a ruling of the board, he may file an
appeal to the ruling within ten (10) days. The appeal shall be heard by the
city commission at the next regular meeting, provided the appeal is filed at
least five (5) days prior to the commission meeting date. If less than five (5)
days shall remain until the next regular meeting date, the appeal shall be
heard the following month. If a nuisance is considered especially grievous, a
special meeting of the city commission may be called to consider the appeal.
(Ord. 292, 11-14-2011)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OCCUPATION TAXES AND LICENSE FEES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: License Required; Application; Issuance
3-1-3: Register Required
3-1-4: Conditions Of License
3-1-5: License Transfer; Revocation
3-1-6: Separate License For Each Business
3-1-7: License Lost; Duplicate
3-1-8: Taxes Or Fees Enumerated
3-1-9: Payment Of Fees; License Term
3-1-10: Exemptions
3-1-11: Failure To Obtain License Or Pay Fee
3-1-12: Penalty
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
For the purpose of protecting the public health and safety by regulating
certain trades and occupations which on account of their nature it is deemed
necessary to regulate, the occupation taxes and license fees set out in this
chapter and this title are made necessary to cover the cost of licensing,
inspecting and policing said trades and occupations and the same are hereby
levied for this purpose. (1980 Code § 5-1)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation,
either as principal or agent, or his servants or employees to conduct or carry
on any trade, occupation, or business hereinafter enumerated without first
having procured a license therefor from the city clerk, as hereinafter
provided.
   B.   Application For License; Issuance:
      1.   Every person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in any trade,
occupation or business hereinafter enumerated in this chapter or this title
shall first make application to the city clerk on an application form furnished
by the city clerk for a license, and shall pay to the clerk the license fee
hereinafter prescribed.
      2.   It is the duty of the city clerk, upon receipt of such application,
and fee, if same be deemed satisfactory and acceptable, and upon fulfillment of
any other requirements of this code or the ordinances of the city, if any, to
issue a license to the applicant.
   C.   Term Of License: All licenses procured above, if they be annual
licenses, expire on June 30 following their issuance.
   D.   Taxes And Fees Levied: There are hereby levied and established
occupation taxes and license fees, as hereinafter set out, for and on each and
every person, business, occupation, profession or trade, or persons, firms and
corporations engaged therein, which are carried on, operated, or conducted,
within the corporate limits of the city. (1980 Code § 5-78)
   E.   Collection Of Fees; License Issuance:
      1.   No license shall be issued hereunder until the required amount
therefor has been paid to the city clerk, and each such license so issued shall
be signed by the mayor and city clerk, and the corporate seal of the city
affixed thereto.
      2.   Such license shall be in suitable form and express the purpose for
which it is issued.
      3.   In all cases, an application for a license must first be approved by
a designated officer or employee, as specified by ordinance, and the city clerk
shall first issue a written application for a license to the applicant who
shall present the same to such officer or employee for his approval after which
the city clerk shall issue said license upon the payment of the required fee or
tax. (1980 Code § 5-3)
3-1-3: REGISTER REQUIRED:
The city clerk shall prepare and keep a suitable register of all licenses
issued by him. (1980 Code § 5-2)
3-1-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Compliance With Laws: All licenses shall be issued subject to the
ordinances of the city and the laws of the state. No license shall be construed
as authority to do or omit to do any act otherwise regulated or required by law
or ordinance. (1980 Code § 5-4)
   B.   Use By Licensee: No license issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall be used or worn at any time by any person other than the one to whom it
was issued.
   C.   Age Restriction: No license shall be issued to any person under the age
of sixteen (16) years, and it shall be unlawful for any licensee to employ or
allow any minor under the age of sixteen (16) years to be used as a huckster,
peddler, hawker, helper or solicitor in connection with the business licensed
thereunder. (1980 Code § 5-79)
3-1-5: LICENSE TRANSFER; REVOCATION:
No license shall be sold or otherwise transferred; and the mayor or approving
officer, as the case may be, may for cause at any time, revoke any license
granted under the ordinances of the city and the amounts that may have been
paid to the city for such license shall be forfeited to the city. (1980 Code §
5-5)
3-1-6: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH BUSINESS:
Every person or firm having more than one place of business or who shall
exercise or follow more than one profession, calling or occupation shall pay
for each separately. (1980 Code § 5-6)
3-1-7: LICENSE LOST; DUPLICATE:
Whenever any original occupation license shall have been lost or destroyed, it
shall be the duty of the city clerk, on application in writing by the owner
thereof, to issue a duplicate of the same and file with the city clerk;
provided, that the same has been lost or destroyed, without any connivance on
his part, and that he has made diligent search for the same and that he has not
been able to find it. (1980 Code § 5-7)
3-1-8: TAXES OR FEES ENUMERATED:
The following license taxes or fees are levied respectively and for the
duration of time as indicated in each case:
Circuses, carnivals, skating rinks and exhibitions for which an admission is
charged: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day of operation, payable in advance
of opening.
Hawkers, peddlers of goods (except sellers of vegetables and produce which they
produced), wares or any other merchandise of whatever nature or other itinerant
merchants: Five dollars ($5.00) per day, twenty five dollars ($25.00) per month
or one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.
Solicitation of subscriptions for books, magazines or other literary products
where all or a part of the price is collected at the time of the subscription:
Five dollars ($5.00) per day per individual so selling or taking subscriptions.
Vehicles or taxicabs for hire: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year per
vehicle.
Coin operated devices operated by the deposit of a coin or coins for dispensing
of a service or a product as follows:
For each coin operated amusement device: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year.
For each coin operated vending device requiring the deposit of twenty five
cents ($0.25) or more: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year.
For each coin operated vending device requiring the deposit of less than twenty
five cents ($0.25): Seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) per year.
For each coin operated bulk vending device which vends one to five (5) products
through a single distribution mechanism requiring the deposit of a coin or
coins having a value of twenty five cents ($0.25) or more: Three dollars
seventy five cents ($3.75) per year.
For each coin operated bulk vending device which vends one or more products
through multiple distribution mechanisms requiring the deposit of a coin or
coins having a value of twenty five cents ($0.25) or more: Ten dollars ($10.00)
for each five (5) distribution mechanisms or any number less than five (5)
mechanisms. This number shall be determined by dividing the total number of
mechanisms by five (5) and, if a fractional number results, the number of
permits shall be rounded up.
For each coin operated bulk vending device requiring the deposit of a coin or
coins having a value of less than twenty five cents ($0.25): One dollar fifty
cents ($1.50) per year.
These annual fees shall be in lieu of sales taxes which are not collected on
these purchases.
Exemptions: The following coin operated devices shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section:
All coin operated devices owned or operated by and located on the premises of a
public or private school, a church or a governmental entity;
All coin operated devices which dispense newspapers or periodicals;
All coin operated devices which dispense only postage stamps;
All coin operated devices which dispense water at laundromats or car washes.
Permit stamps shall be issued for one calendar year, however permit stamps
issued in the second half of the year shall be prorated fifty percent (50%).
Any items sold through a vending machine for which the permit stamp has been
paid and is displayed shall be exempt from and not subject to sales tax.
Any owner or operator of a coin operated device who places such device in
service and available to the public without first affixing said permit stamp
shall be guilty of an offense and shall be liable upon conviction for a fine of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) plus court costs and the costs of the permit
stamp for each nonpermitted device.
Where any coin operated device as previously defined is placed on location
within the city of Drumright without a permit stamp affixed as provided by this
section, the device, including any cash in the receptacle thereof, shall be
considered forfeited to the city of Drumright and may be seized by any law
enforcement officer and impounded subject to a hearing in the Drumright
municipal court. The owner thereof shall be given a minimum of ten (10) days
notice of the time and date of the hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the municipal court judge shall enter a finding and upon a finding of guilty,
the owner shall pay the above referenced fine and costs whereupon the city of
Drumright shall return the device(s) to the owner. (Ord. 297, 4-8-2013)
3-1-9: PAYMENT OF FEES; LICENSE TERM:
   A.   Specification Of Fees: All license fees and occupation taxes shall be
levied in such amounts as specified in section
3-1-8 of this chapter and for the time enumerated, or parts thereof, and no fee
or tax shall be levied for a less amount than specified, but for any fractional
part of the enumerated time, the full amount shall be paid as if for the full
time and all such licenses shall expire as otherwise provided by ordinance.
(1980 Code § 5-8)
   B.   Due Date; Term Of License: All license fees for the above named
occupations, and each of them, except as otherwise designated herein, shall be
and become due on June 30 of each year; and no license for the operation of any
such business or occupation shall be issued until such license fee is paid to
the city clerk; and all licenses for such occupations or businesses shall be
issued to expire on June 30 following the issuance thereof, unless otherwise
designated. (1980 Code § 5-11; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-10: EXEMPTIONS:
There shall be no license required for persons, firms, or corporations selling
personal property at wholesale to retail merchants, nor for resident merchants
or their employees in taking orders at the homes of their customers, nor for
such resident merchants and their employees in delivering goods ordered by
their customers. Likewise, there shall be required no license for persons
selling newspapers from house to house, nor for any person, firm or corporation
selling and delivering commodities from house to house where said person, firm
or corporation has an established home or place of business within the limits
of the city. Likewise, it shall not be necessary for any farmer or truck
gardener to procure a license in order to sell, from house to house in the
city, products raised by him from lands owned, cultivated or controlled by him.
(1980 Code § 5-80)
3-1-11: FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE OR PAY FEE:
Any person, firm, corporation, or association refusing to comply with or
violating any of the terms, conditions or provisions of this chapter or who
shall exercise, follow, pursue or engage in any of the occupations, businesses,
trades or professions on which an occupation tax or license fee is charged as a
condition for same, without first obtaining a license therefor, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense, and each day's violation shall constitute a separate
offense; provided, however, that any fines and costs paid on account of the
same shall in no way relieve any person, firm or corporation from the payment
of any license, tax or fee as herein provided, and shall not impair any other
legal right or remedies which the city may have. (1980 Code § 5-9)
3-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall engage in any business,
profession, trade or occupation, or exercise any privilege for which a license
is required by this title without a valid license as thereby required, or who
shall violate any provision of this title by doing any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be an offense or misdemeanor
thereby, or who shall fail to do any act when such provision declares such
failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 5-81; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL TAXES
ARTICLE C. LODGING TAX
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Citation And Codification
3-2C-2: Definitions
3-2C-3: Tax Rate
3-2C-4: Exemptions
3-2C-5: Tax To Be Separately Designated On Bills
3-2C-6: Operator's Duties
3-2C-7: Bond Required; City Collection
3-2C-8: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
3-2C-9: Refunds
3-2C-10: Notices
3-2C-11: Remedies Exclusive
3-2C-12: Agreement Of Administration
3-2C-13: General Powers Of The City Manager
3-2C-14: Certificates Of Registration
3-2C-15: Use Of Funds
3-2C-16: Records Confidential
3-2C-17: Criminal Penalties
3-2C-18: Civil Remedies
3-2C-1: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This article shall be known and cited as the CITY OF DRUMRIGHT LODGING TAX
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CITY: The city of Drumright, Oklahoma.
HOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations, and in
which rooms are used for the accommodation of such occupant whether such rooms
are in one or several structures. The term shall include hotels, apartment
hotels, motels, tourist courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, and all
other facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or space are furnished for
a consideration. The term shall not include hospitals, sanatoriums or nursing
homes.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any
room or rooms in a hotel.
OCCUPANT: The person, who for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel within the city, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, manager, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, voluntary
association, firm, club, society, organization or any other entity of whatever
kind or nature.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Any report filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
ROOM: Any room or suite of rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel
which is available for or let out for use or possessed for sleeping facilities.
TAX: The tax levied pursuant to this article. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-
2015)
3-2C-3: TAX RATE:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of four percent (4%) (in addition to any
and all other excise taxes now in force) upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a
hotel in this city. Rooms provided free of charge, through barter, trade or any
other arrangement or agreement of any kind or nature, are also subject to such
tax at the sales value of the room so provided (with "sales value" to mean the
price at which the room would be rented to the operator's best customer in the
ordinary course of business). (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The exemptions from excise tax enumerated in 68 Oklahoma Statutes, section 1350
et seq. (the "Oklahoma sales tax code"), are hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference. To the extent any conflicts in connection with the
permitted exemptions should arise under this article and the Oklahoma sales tax
code, the Oklahoma sales tax code shall prevail. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-
1-2015)
3-2C-5: TAX TO BE SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS:
The operator shall separately designate; charge and show the tax on all bills,
statements, receipts or any other evidence of charge or payment of rent for
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-
2015)
3-2C-6: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
   A.   Operator Responsible For Collections: The operator shall be responsible
for the collection of the tax from the occupant and shall be liable to the city
for the tax which shall be held in trust by the operator until paid to the city
or the Oklahoma tax commission pursuant to an agreement to collect municipal
lodging taxes as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes, section 2701 et seq., of
the state tax code. The operator shall join the city as a party to any action
brought by the operator to enforce collection of the tax.
   B.   Records To Be Kept: Every operator shall keep records of every
occupancy and of all rent paid, charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable
thereon in such form as the city manager or Oklahoma tax commission may by
regulation require. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the city manager, or a duty authorized
agent or employee of the city or the Oklahoma tax commission, and shall be
preserved for a period of three (3) years.
   C.   Returns:
      1.   In the event of collection of the tax levied pursuant to this
article by the Oklahoma tax commission, each operator shall file with the city
manager a copy of their completed Oklahoma state sales tax form within twenty
(20) days after the end of each month following the effective date hereof.
      2.   In the event of collection of the tax levied pursuant to this
article by the city, every operator shall file with the city manager a return
as prescribed by the city and shall contain such information as may be deemed
necessary and proper for the administration of this article, of any occupancy
and of rents, and of the taxes payable thereon for the period ending on the
last day of each month following the effective date hereof. Such return shall
be filed within the first twenty (20) days after the end of each such month.
The city manager may require amended returns to be filed within ten (10) days
after notice and to contain the information specified in the notice.
   D.   Payment Of Tax: The payment of the tax levied pursuant to this article
shall be due prior to the twentieth day following the month during which the
charge for the occupancy of a hotel is incurred by the occupant. At the time of
filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator shall pay to the city
treasurer or the Oklahoma tax commission (in the manner and form prescribed for
payment of the municipal lodging tax under the state tax law of the state of
Oklahoma) the taxes imposed by this article upon the rents included in such
return. All taxes not paid with a timely return shall be delinquent. All the
taxes for the period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due
from the operator and payable to the city treasurer or Oklahoma tax commission
on or before the date fixed for the filing of the return for such period
without regard to whether a return is filed or whether the return which is
filed correctly shows the amount of rents and the taxes due thereon.
   E.   Deduction For Recordkeeping: For so long as the operator maintains
compliance with the collection and remittance of the tax due hereunder, the
operator shall be allowed a deduction in accordance with the provisions of 68
Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, section 1367.1, as compensation for the keeping
and maintaining of sales tax records, filing reports and remitting the tax when
due.
   F.   Delinquent Taxes: All taxes not paid within twenty (20) calendar days
following the last day of the period for the collection of the tax levied by
this article shall be delinquent.
   G.   Interest And Penalties On Unpaid Taxes: If any tax levied by this
article becomes delinquent, the person responsible and liable for remittance of
such tax shall pay penalties on such unpaid tax at the rates and charges as
established in 68 Oklahoma Statutes, section 217. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-
1-2015)
3-2C-7: BOND REQUIRED; CITY COLLECTION:
In the event initial collection of the tax levied hereunder shall be collected
by the city, or after such termination of an agreement of administration
authorized in section
3-2C-12 of this article, where the city manager believes that any operator is
about to cease business, leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for
any other similar reason the city manager deems it necessary in order to
protect revenues under this article may require such operator to file with the
city a bond issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in the
state in such amount as the city manager may fix to secure the payment of any
tax or penalties and interest due, or which may become due from such operator.
In the event that the city manager determines that an operator is to file such
bond, the city manager shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount
of security required. The operator shall file such security as a performance
bond or irrevocable letter of credit within five (5) days after the filing of
such notice unless within such five (5) days the operator shall request in
writing a hearing before the city council, at which time the necessary
propriety and amount of the bond shall be determined by the city council. Such
determination shall be final and shall be complied with within fifteen (15)
days thereafter. In lieu of such bond, a cash or securities escrow, in an
amount and under terms approved by the city manager, may be deposited with the
city manager, who may at any time after five (5) days' notice to the depositor,
apply them to any tax and/or any penalties due and for that purpose the
securities may be sold at private or public sale. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-
1-2015)
3-2C-8: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the city
manager or the Oklahoma tax commission from such information as may be
obtainable and, if necessary, the tax may be estimated on the basis of external
indices, such as number of rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents,
types of accommodations and services, number of employees, or other factors.
Written notice of such assessments shall be given to the person liable for the
collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax:
   A.   Unless the person against whom it is assessed shall apply in writing to
the city council for a hearing within sixty (60) days after the city gives
notice of such assessment; or
   B.   Unless the city manager decides to reassess the same.
After such hearing, the city council shall give written notice of its
determination within thirty (30) days to the person against whom the tax is
assessed and such determination shall be final. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-
2015)
3-2C-9: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Oklahoma Tax Commission Collection Of Tax: If collection of the tax
levied pursuant to this article is delegated to the Oklahoma tax commission
pursuant to an agreement for the collection of municipally imposed lodging tax,
the Oklahoma tax commission shall be responsible for making refunds to
taxpayers previously collected by the Oklahoma tax commission on the city's
behalf in accordance with the guidelines, procedures and regulations previously
adopted by the Oklahoma tax commission.
      2.   City Collection Of Tax: The city manager shall direct the refund or
credit of any tax erroneously, illegally or unconstitutionally collected if
written application to the city manager for such refund is made within two (2)
years from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in the same
period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative of the city manager,
subject to existing limits on the authority of the city manager as to amount.
The city manager, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit
thereof on payments due from the applicant. Whenever a refund is made, the
reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. Such application may be made by
the person who has collected and paid such tax to the city treasurer; however,
no refund of money shall be made to the operator until the operator has repaid
to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is made.
         a.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund the city
manager may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation
as is deemed necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the city
manager shall give written notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination
shall be final unless the applicant, within thirty (30) days after such notice,
shall apply in writing to the city council for a hearing. After such hearing
the city council shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant.
(Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-10: NOTICES:
Notices provided for under this article shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the operator.
In the absence of written evidence received by the city to the contrary, the
last known address shall be presumed to be the address shown on the certificate
of registration as required by section
3-2C-14 of this article. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-11: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this article shall be the exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article. (Ord.
313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-12: AGREEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION:
Upon approval of the tax by a majority of the qualified voters of the city, the
city shall be authorized, but not obligated, to enter into an agreement of
administration (the "agreement") with the Oklahoma tax commission for
collection of the tax levied hereunder. Should the city elect to enter into
said agreement, operators shall follow the normal rules and procedures of
collection and administration of excise tax as prescribed by the Oklahoma tax
commission. In the event of a subsequent change in administration and
collection of the tax, operators shall be notified in accordance with the
notice provisions required under state law and the rules of the Oklahoma tax
commission of the date of such change in collection practices and any
requirements of operators enumerated under this article where the city shall
serve as the collector of the tax. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-13: GENERAL POWERS OF THE CITY MANAGER:
In addition to all other powers granted to the city manager, the city manager
is hereby authorized:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
execution of this article and for the purposes hereof;
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding thirty (30) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate functions hereunder to authorized designees for the city;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the amount of taxes
(but not the tax rate) imposed by this article;
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents;
   F.   To administer oaths and take affidavits concerning any matter or
proceeding under this article; and
   G.   To subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production
of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to the
performance and the enforcement of this article and to examine them in relation
thereto. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-14: CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION:
Every operator shall file with the city manager a certificate of registration
in a form prescribed by the city manager within ten (10) days after the
effective date hereof, or in the case of operators commencing business or
opening new hotels after such effective date, within three (3) days after such
commencement or opening. The city manager shall, within five (5) days after
such registration, issue, without charge, to each operator a certificate of
authority empowering such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and
duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate or duplicate
shall state the hotel to which it is applicable. Such certificate of authority
shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be
seen and will come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking
occupancy. Such certificates shall be nonassignable, nontransferable, and shall
be surrendered immediately to the city manager upon the cessation of business
at the hotel named, or upon its sale or transfer. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-
1-2015)
3-2C-15: USE OF FUNDS:
All taxes collected pursuant to provisions of this article shall be placed in
the general funds of the city, shall be budgeted and appropriated annually by
the city, and shall be expended exclusively for the support of the functions of
the municipal government of the city (the "authorized purpose"), for the use
and benefit of the city and any public trust having the city as beneficiary
thereof and/or for the payment of debt service in connection with obligations
heretofore issued or to be issued to finance or refinance expenditures and
related costs for such authorized purpose. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records file concerning the
administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared and,
in order to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes 2011,
section 205 of the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof and all
amendments thereto, as hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and
applicable to the administration of this article as if here set forth. (Ord.
313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-17: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   The wilful intent or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article, shall constitute a violation of this code
and shall be subject to the general penalty set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   The failure by an operator to file a security bond as required, to
register or to display the certificate of registration, or to separately state
the tax on the bill or to collect such tax from the occupant, shall constitute
a violation of this code and shall be subject to the general penalty set forth
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-18: CIVIL REMEDIES:
   A.   Whenever any operator, occupant or other person shall fail to collect
and/or pay over any tax, or to owe any tax, penalty or interest imposed by this
article as herein provided, the mayor may authorize the director of finance to
file notice of liens on behalf of the city against the real estate upon which
the hotel is located and/or against all franchises, property and rights to
property, whether real or personal, then belonging to or thereafter acquired by
the person owing the tax pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes 2011, sections 2701
and 2704.
   B.   The liens shall, upon proper filing, attach to the real estate and/or
personal property then owned or thereafter acquired by the debtor, whether such
property is used by the debtor in the operation of business or is under the
authority of an assignee, trustee, or receiver for the benefit of creditors,
from the date such taxes are due and payable as allowed by 68 Oklahoma Statutes
2011, section 2704.
   C.   The city manager shall notify the person owing the tax by personal
service or by certified mail that the city will file such liens if any
delinquent taxes, interest and/or penalties are not paid within fifteen (15)
days of receiving such notice.
   D.   The city manager may also authorize the city attorney to institute an
action in personam and in rem to enforce payment and collect any delinquent
taxes, penalties and/or interest. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Authority To Levy Taxes; Compliance With Statute
3-2A-2: Taxes Imposed; Effective Dates
3-2A-1: AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAXES; COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTE:
The city sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds
of such sales as specified by 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1350 et seq., and
exemptions from such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to said statutes. (2002
Code)
3-2A-2: TAXES IMPOSED; EFFECTIVE DATES:
The following city sales taxes, in the total amount of four and one-half
percent (4.50%), shall be imposed and effective as indicated, unless otherwise
extended by a vote of the people. Said taxes have been approved by a majority
of the registered voters of the city voting on same in elections conducted in
the manner prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes: (2002 Code; amd. Ord. 247, 12-12-
2005)
   A.   Three percent (3%), effective in 1982, to provide revenue for the
following purposes:
      1.   Seventy five percent (75%) for street improvements; and
      2.   Twenty five percent (25%) for general purposes. (Ord. 154, 5-4-1982)
   B.   One-half of one percent (0.50%), effective December 1, 1994, for
operating revenue for the city. (Ord. 201, 9-6-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   1. Effective Date And Date Of Termination: Subject to approval of a
majority of the registered voters of the city of Drumright, Oklahoma, voting on
the same as prescribed by law, to be held on February 14, 2006, this ordinance
247 shall become effective immediately upon said approval and this ordinance
247 shall cease to be effective, and the existing one-half percent (1/2%)
excise tax and the additional one-half percent (1/2%) excise tax levied by
ordinance 211, as amended by ordinance 228, shall no longer be levied on and
after April 1, 2036.
      2.   Purposes Of Revenues: It hereby is declared to be the purpose of the
revenues provided by the existing one-half percent (1/2%) excise tax and the
additional one-half percent (1/2%) excise tax levied by this ordinance to
provide revenues for the purposes of paying the principal of and interest on
indebtedness incurred on behalf of the city of Drumright by the Drumright
utility trust to provide funds for capital improvements of the city of
Drumright, Oklahoma, and for paying the expenses of equipping, operating and
maintaining the municipal hospital facilities and properties owned by the city
of Drumright, Oklahoma. (Ord. 247, 12-12-2005)
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Statute Authority
3-2B-2: Tax Levied; Effective Date
3-2B-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
The city is hereby authorized, pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401 et
seq., to levy an excise tax on the storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property used, stored or consumed within the city. (2002
Code)
3-2B-2: TAX LEVIED; EFFECTIVE DATE:
There is hereby levied, and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the city tangible personal property purchased or
brought into the city, an excise tax on the storage, use or other consumption
within the city of such property at the rate of the sales tax levied, imposed,
and in effect pursuant to the provisions of this code of the purchase price of
such property. (Ord. 248, 6-12-2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
ARTICLE C. LODGING TAX
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Citation And Codification
3-2C-2: Definitions
3-2C-3: Tax Rate
3-2C-4: Exemptions
3-2C-5: Tax To Be Separately Designated On Bills
3-2C-6: Operator's Duties
3-2C-7: Bond Required; City Collection
3-2C-8: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
3-2C-9: Refunds
3-2C-10: Notices
3-2C-11: Remedies Exclusive
3-2C-12: Agreement Of Administration
3-2C-13: General Powers Of The City Manager
3-2C-14: Certificates Of Registration
3-2C-15: Use Of Funds
3-2C-16: Records Confidential
3-2C-17: Criminal Penalties
3-2C-18: Civil Remedies
3-2C-1: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This article shall be known and cited as the CITY OF DRUMRIGHT LODGING TAX
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CITY: The city of Drumright, Oklahoma.
HOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations, and in
which rooms are used for the accommodation of such occupant whether such rooms
are in one or several structures. The term shall include hotels, apartment
hotels, motels, tourist courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, and all
other facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or space are furnished for
a consideration. The term shall not include hospitals, sanatoriums or nursing
homes.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any
room or rooms in a hotel.
OCCUPANT: The person, who for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel within the city, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, manager, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, voluntary
association, firm, club, society, organization or any other entity of whatever
kind or nature.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Any report filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
ROOM: Any room or suite of rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel
which is available for or let out for use or possessed for sleeping facilities.
TAX: The tax levied pursuant to this article. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-
2015)
3-2C-3: TAX RATE:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of four percent (4%) (in addition to any
and all other excise taxes now in force) upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a
hotel in this city. Rooms provided free of charge, through barter, trade or any
other arrangement or agreement of any kind or nature, are also subject to such
tax at the sales value of the room so provided (with "sales value" to mean the
price at which the room would be rented to the operator's best customer in the
ordinary course of business). (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The exemptions from excise tax enumerated in 68 Oklahoma Statutes, section 1350
et seq. (the "Oklahoma sales tax code"), are hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference. To the extent any conflicts in connection with the
permitted exemptions should arise under this article and the Oklahoma sales tax
code, the Oklahoma sales tax code shall prevail. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-
1-2015)
3-2C-5: TAX TO BE SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS:
The operator shall separately designate; charge and show the tax on all bills,
statements, receipts or any other evidence of charge or payment of rent for
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-
2015)
3-2C-6: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
   A.   Operator Responsible For Collections: The operator shall be responsible
for the collection of the tax from the occupant and shall be liable to the city
for the tax which shall be held in trust by the operator until paid to the city
or the Oklahoma tax commission pursuant to an agreement to collect municipal
lodging taxes as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes, section 2701 et seq., of
the state tax code. The operator shall join the city as a party to any action
brought by the operator to enforce collection of the tax.
   B.   Records To Be Kept: Every operator shall keep records of every
occupancy and of all rent paid, charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable
thereon in such form as the city manager or Oklahoma tax commission may by
regulation require. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the city manager, or a duty authorized
agent or employee of the city or the Oklahoma tax commission, and shall be
preserved for a period of three (3) years.
   C.   Returns:
      1.   In the event of collection of the tax levied pursuant to this
article by the Oklahoma tax commission, each operator shall file with the city
manager a copy of their completed Oklahoma state sales tax form within twenty
(20) days after the end of each month following the effective date hereof.
      2.   In the event of collection of the tax levied pursuant to this
article by the city, every operator shall file with the city manager a return
as prescribed by the city and shall contain such information as may be deemed
necessary and proper for the administration of this article, of any occupancy
and of rents, and of the taxes payable thereon for the period ending on the
last day of each month following the effective date hereof. Such return shall
be filed within the first twenty (20) days after the end of each such month.
The city manager may require amended returns to be filed within ten (10) days
after notice and to contain the information specified in the notice.
   D.   Payment Of Tax: The payment of the tax levied pursuant to this article
shall be due prior to the twentieth day following the month during which the
charge for the occupancy of a hotel is incurred by the occupant. At the time of
filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator shall pay to the city
treasurer or the Oklahoma tax commission (in the manner and form prescribed for
payment of the municipal lodging tax under the state tax law of the state of
Oklahoma) the taxes imposed by this article upon the rents included in such
return. All taxes not paid with a timely return shall be delinquent. All the
taxes for the period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due
from the operator and payable to the city treasurer or Oklahoma tax commission
on or before the date fixed for the filing of the return for such period
without regard to whether a return is filed or whether the return which is
filed correctly shows the amount of rents and the taxes due thereon.
   E.   Deduction For Recordkeeping: For so long as the operator maintains
compliance with the collection and remittance of the tax due hereunder, the
operator shall be allowed a deduction in accordance with the provisions of 68
Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, section 1367.1, as compensation for the keeping
and maintaining of sales tax records, filing reports and remitting the tax when
due.
   F.   Delinquent Taxes: All taxes not paid within twenty (20) calendar days
following the last day of the period for the collection of the tax levied by
this article shall be delinquent.
   G.   Interest And Penalties On Unpaid Taxes: If any tax levied by this
article becomes delinquent, the person responsible and liable for remittance of
such tax shall pay penalties on such unpaid tax at the rates and charges as
established in 68 Oklahoma Statutes, section 217. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-
1-2015)
3-2C-7: BOND REQUIRED; CITY COLLECTION:
In the event initial collection of the tax levied hereunder shall be collected
by the city, or after such termination of an agreement of administration
authorized in section
3-2C-12 of this article, where the city manager believes that any operator is
about to cease business, leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for
any other similar reason the city manager deems it necessary in order to
protect revenues under this article may require such operator to file with the
city a bond issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in the
state in such amount as the city manager may fix to secure the payment of any
tax or penalties and interest due, or which may become due from such operator.
In the event that the city manager determines that an operator is to file such
bond, the city manager shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount
of security required. The operator shall file such security as a performance
bond or irrevocable letter of credit within five (5) days after the filing of
such notice unless within such five (5) days the operator shall request in
writing a hearing before the city council, at which time the necessary
propriety and amount of the bond shall be determined by the city council. Such
determination shall be final and shall be complied with within fifteen (15)
days thereafter. In lieu of such bond, a cash or securities escrow, in an
amount and under terms approved by the city manager, may be deposited with the
city manager, who may at any time after five (5) days' notice to the depositor,
apply them to any tax and/or any penalties due and for that purpose the
securities may be sold at private or public sale. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-
1-2015)
3-2C-8: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the city
manager or the Oklahoma tax commission from such information as may be
obtainable and, if necessary, the tax may be estimated on the basis of external
indices, such as number of rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents,
types of accommodations and services, number of employees, or other factors.
Written notice of such assessments shall be given to the person liable for the
collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax:
   A.   Unless the person against whom it is assessed shall apply in writing to
the city council for a hearing within sixty (60) days after the city gives
notice of such assessment; or
   B.   Unless the city manager decides to reassess the same.
After such hearing, the city council shall give written notice of its
determination within thirty (30) days to the person against whom the tax is
assessed and such determination shall be final. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-
2015)
3-2C-9: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Oklahoma Tax Commission Collection Of Tax: If collection of the tax
levied pursuant to this article is delegated to the Oklahoma tax commission
pursuant to an agreement for the collection of municipally imposed lodging tax,
the Oklahoma tax commission shall be responsible for making refunds to
taxpayers previously collected by the Oklahoma tax commission on the city's
behalf in accordance with the guidelines, procedures and regulations previously
adopted by the Oklahoma tax commission.
      2.   City Collection Of Tax: The city manager shall direct the refund or
credit of any tax erroneously, illegally or unconstitutionally collected if
written application to the city manager for such refund is made within two (2)
years from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in the same
period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative of the city manager,
subject to existing limits on the authority of the city manager as to amount.
The city manager, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit
thereof on payments due from the applicant. Whenever a refund is made, the
reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. Such application may be made by
the person who has collected and paid such tax to the city treasurer; however,
no refund of money shall be made to the operator until the operator has repaid
to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is made.
         a.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund the city
manager may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation
as is deemed necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the city
manager shall give written notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination
shall be final unless the applicant, within thirty (30) days after such notice,
shall apply in writing to the city council for a hearing. After such hearing
the city council shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant.
(Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-10: NOTICES:
Notices provided for under this article shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the operator.
In the absence of written evidence received by the city to the contrary, the
last known address shall be presumed to be the address shown on the certificate
of registration as required by section
3-2C-14 of this article. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-11: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this article shall be the exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article. (Ord.
313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-12: AGREEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION:
Upon approval of the tax by a majority of the qualified voters of the city, the
city shall be authorized, but not obligated, to enter into an agreement of
administration (the "agreement") with the Oklahoma tax commission for
collection of the tax levied hereunder. Should the city elect to enter into
said agreement, operators shall follow the normal rules and procedures of
collection and administration of excise tax as prescribed by the Oklahoma tax
commission. In the event of a subsequent change in administration and
collection of the tax, operators shall be notified in accordance with the
notice provisions required under state law and the rules of the Oklahoma tax
commission of the date of such change in collection practices and any
requirements of operators enumerated under this article where the city shall
serve as the collector of the tax. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-13: GENERAL POWERS OF THE CITY MANAGER:
In addition to all other powers granted to the city manager, the city manager
is hereby authorized:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
execution of this article and for the purposes hereof;
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding thirty (30) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate functions hereunder to authorized designees for the city;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the amount of taxes
(but not the tax rate) imposed by this article;
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents;
   F.   To administer oaths and take affidavits concerning any matter or
proceeding under this article; and
   G.   To subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production
of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to the
performance and the enforcement of this article and to examine them in relation
thereto. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-14: CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION:
Every operator shall file with the city manager a certificate of registration
in a form prescribed by the city manager within ten (10) days after the
effective date hereof, or in the case of operators commencing business or
opening new hotels after such effective date, within three (3) days after such
commencement or opening. The city manager shall, within five (5) days after
such registration, issue, without charge, to each operator a certificate of
authority empowering such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and
duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate or duplicate
shall state the hotel to which it is applicable. Such certificate of authority
shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be
seen and will come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking
occupancy. Such certificates shall be nonassignable, nontransferable, and shall
be surrendered immediately to the city manager upon the cessation of business
at the hotel named, or upon its sale or transfer. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-
1-2015)
3-2C-15: USE OF FUNDS:
All taxes collected pursuant to provisions of this article shall be placed in
the general funds of the city, shall be budgeted and appropriated annually by
the city, and shall be expended exclusively for the support of the functions of
the municipal government of the city (the "authorized purpose"), for the use
and benefit of the city and any public trust having the city as beneficiary
thereof and/or for the payment of debt service in connection with obligations
heretofore issued or to be issued to finance or refinance expenditures and
related costs for such authorized purpose. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records file concerning the
administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared and,
in order to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes 2011,
section 205 of the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof and all
amendments thereto, as hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and
applicable to the administration of this article as if here set forth. (Ord.
313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-17: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   The wilful intent or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article, shall constitute a violation of this code
and shall be subject to the general penalty set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   The failure by an operator to file a security bond as required, to
register or to display the certificate of registration, or to separately state
the tax on the bill or to collect such tax from the occupant, shall constitute
a violation of this code and shall be subject to the general penalty set forth
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
3-2C-18: CIVIL REMEDIES:
   A.   Whenever any operator, occupant or other person shall fail to collect
and/or pay over any tax, or to owe any tax, penalty or interest imposed by this
article as herein provided, the mayor may authorize the director of finance to
file notice of liens on behalf of the city against the real estate upon which
the hotel is located and/or against all franchises, property and rights to
property, whether real or personal, then belonging to or thereafter acquired by
the person owing the tax pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes 2011, sections 2701
and 2704.
   B.   The liens shall, upon proper filing, attach to the real estate and/or
personal property then owned or thereafter acquired by the debtor, whether such
property is used by the debtor in the operation of business or is under the
authority of an assignee, trustee, or receiver for the benefit of creditors,
from the date such taxes are due and payable as allowed by 68 Oklahoma Statutes
2011, section 2704.
   C.   The city manager shall notify the person owing the tax by personal
service or by certified mail that the city will file such liens if any
delinquent taxes, interest and/or penalties are not paid within fifteen (15)
days of receiving such notice.
   D.   The city manager may also authorize the city attorney to institute an
action in personam and in rem to enforce payment and collect any delinquent
taxes, penalties and/or interest. (Ord. 313, 2-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
ARTICLE A. OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Definitions
3-3A-2: Taxes Levied
3-3A-3: Payment Required; Penalty
3-3A-4: Annual Report
3-3A-5: Certificate Requirements
3-3A-6: Tax Receipt Posted
3-3A-7: Tax Recoverable By Suit
3-3A-8: Penalty
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Terms Defined: Words and terms within this article and articles B and C
of this chapter, shall be given the same meanings and definitions set forth for
them by the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage control act, 37 Oklahoma Statutes
section 506. (2002 Code)
   B.   Requirements: Persons engaged in occupations relating to alcoholic
beverages shall do those things specified in the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage
control act, 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 521.
   C.   Word Usage: Words in the plural include the singular, and vice versa,
and words imparting the masculine gender include the feminine. (1980 Code § 2-
1; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3A-2: TAXES LEVIED:
   A.   Taxes Enumerated: There is hereby levied and assessed an annual
occupation tax on every business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages
as specifically enumerated herein and in the amount herein stated:
Brewer                 $1,250.00
Caterer                 
(Initial)              1,000.00
(Renewal)              900.00
Class B wholesaler     625.00
Distiller              3,125.00
Mixed beverage
(Initial)              450.00
(Renewal)              450.00
Oklahoma winemaker     75.00
Rectifier              3,125.00
Retail package store   450.00
Special event, per day 50.00
Wholesaler             3,500.00
Winemaker              625.00
 
   B.   Service Organizations: The occupation tax for those service
organizations which are exempt under section 501(c)(19) of the internal revenue
code for mixed beverage or bottle club license shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) per year.
   C.   Brewer Or Class B Wholesaler: If a brewer or a class B wholesaler also
holds a license from the state to manufacture or wholesale any nonintoxicating
malt beverage, then the occupation tax for such brewer or class B wholesaler
shall be reduced by seventy five percent (75%). (1980 Code § 2-2)
3-3A-3: PAYMENT REQUIRED; PENALTY:
   A.   State License Prerequisite: Any state licensee originally entering upon
any occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of the
city clerk on or before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation. The
licensee shall provide a copy of his current state license before payment of an
occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax
annually on or before July 1.
   B.   Prorate Tax: The occupation tax subject to this chapter shall be
prorated on a monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins
operations.
   C.   Issue Receipt: Upon payment of the occupation tax, the city clerk shall
issue a receipt to the state licensee, which the licensee shall post in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carried on his occupation. (1980
Code § 2-3)
   D.   Penalty For Nonpayment: Any person who engages in any of the
occupations taxed by this article without paying the occupation tax imposed
therefor in advance of such operation is guilty of an offense against the city
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense. (1980 Code § 2-3; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3A-4: ANNUAL REPORT:
The city clerk shall make an annual report to the ABLE commission, covering the
fiscal year, showing the number and class of licensees subject to the
occupation tax and the amount of money collected from the tax. (1980 Code § 2-
3.1)
3-3A-5: CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Certificate; Investigations:
      1.   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning,
fire, health and safety codes of the city required by title 37 of the Oklahoma
Statutes shall apply at the office of the city clerk by:
         a.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
         b.   Paying a verification and certification fee.
      2.   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
city clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of the
zoning ordinance and any health, fire, building and other safety codes
applicable to it.
      3.   The city clerk shall act on all such applications within twenty (20)
days of receipt thereof. (1980 Code § 2-3.2; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Zoning And Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
shall be issued to the ABLE commission.
      2.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE commission.
      3.   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the mayor or
by the vice mayor. (1980 Code § 2-3.4)
3-3A-6: TAX RECEIPT POSTED:
Any state licensee shall post his tax receipt in a conspicuous place in the
premises wherein he carries on his occupation. (1980 Code § 2-4)
3-3A-7: TAX RECOVERABLE BY SUIT:
All sums due from any person by reason of occupation taxes imposed by this
article and all penalties occurring from such person by reason of failure to
pay such tax shall be recoverable at the suit of the city brought against such
person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In any such suit, in addition to
the tax and penalties, the plaintiff shall recover interest, at the rate of ten
percent (10%) per annum upon all sums due by way of tax and penalty from the
date of accrual thereof, and all costs of collection, judicial or otherwise,
including reasonable attorney fees (which shall be paid to the attorney
representing the plaintiff in the suit), all to be determined by the court.
Prosecution for an offense against the city arising out of the failure to pay a
tax levied by this article, regardless of the outcome thereof or of its
continued pendency, shall not constitute a defense or a bar in any manner to
the collection of the tax and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided.
(1980 Code § 2-6)
3-3A-8: PENALTY:
Any person who engages in any one of the occupations taxed by this article
without paying the occupation tax imposed therefor is guilty of an offense
against the city and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such person engages in the occupation without
payment of the tax shall constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 2-5; amd.
2002 Code)
ARTICLE A. OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Definitions
3-3A-2: Taxes Levied
3-3A-3: Payment Required; Penalty
3-3A-4: Annual Report
3-3A-5: Certificate Requirements
3-3A-6: Tax Receipt Posted
3-3A-7: Tax Recoverable By Suit
3-3A-8: Penalty
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Terms Defined: Words and terms within this article and articles B and C
of this chapter, shall be given the same meanings and definitions set forth for
them by the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage control act, 37 Oklahoma Statutes
section 506. (2002 Code)
   B.   Requirements: Persons engaged in occupations relating to alcoholic
beverages shall do those things specified in the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage
control act, 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 521.
   C.   Word Usage: Words in the plural include the singular, and vice versa,
and words imparting the masculine gender include the feminine. (1980 Code § 2-
1; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3A-2: TAXES LEVIED:
   A.   Taxes Enumerated: There is hereby levied and assessed an annual
occupation tax on every business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages
as specifically enumerated herein and in the amount herein stated:
Brewer                 $1,250.00
Caterer                 
(Initial)              1,000.00
(Renewal)              900.00
Class B wholesaler     625.00
Distiller              3,125.00
Mixed beverage
(Initial)              450.00
(Renewal)              450.00
Oklahoma winemaker     75.00
Rectifier              3,125.00
Retail package store   450.00
Special event, per day 50.00
Wholesaler             3,500.00
Winemaker              625.00
 
   B.   Service Organizations: The occupation tax for those service
organizations which are exempt under section 501(c)(19) of the internal revenue
code for mixed beverage or bottle club license shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) per year.
   C.   Brewer Or Class B Wholesaler: If a brewer or a class B wholesaler also
holds a license from the state to manufacture or wholesale any nonintoxicating
malt beverage, then the occupation tax for such brewer or class B wholesaler
shall be reduced by seventy five percent (75%). (1980 Code § 2-2)
3-3A-3: PAYMENT REQUIRED; PENALTY:
   A.   State License Prerequisite: Any state licensee originally entering upon
any occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of the
city clerk on or before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation. The
licensee shall provide a copy of his current state license before payment of an
occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax
annually on or before July 1.
   B.   Prorate Tax: The occupation tax subject to this chapter shall be
prorated on a monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins
operations.
   C.   Issue Receipt: Upon payment of the occupation tax, the city clerk shall
issue a receipt to the state licensee, which the licensee shall post in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carried on his occupation. (1980
Code § 2-3)
   D.   Penalty For Nonpayment: Any person who engages in any of the
occupations taxed by this article without paying the occupation tax imposed
therefor in advance of such operation is guilty of an offense against the city
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense. (1980 Code § 2-3; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3A-4: ANNUAL REPORT:
The city clerk shall make an annual report to the ABLE commission, covering the
fiscal year, showing the number and class of licensees subject to the
occupation tax and the amount of money collected from the tax. (1980 Code § 2-
3.1)
3-3A-5: CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Certificate; Investigations:
      1.   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning,
fire, health and safety codes of the city required by title 37 of the Oklahoma
Statutes shall apply at the office of the city clerk by:
         a.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
         b.   Paying a verification and certification fee.
      2.   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
city clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of the
zoning ordinance and any health, fire, building and other safety codes
applicable to it.
      3.   The city clerk shall act on all such applications within twenty (20)
days of receipt thereof. (1980 Code § 2-3.2; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Zoning And Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
shall be issued to the ABLE commission.
      2.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE commission.
      3.   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the mayor or
by the vice mayor. (1980 Code § 2-3.4)
3-3A-6: TAX RECEIPT POSTED:
Any state licensee shall post his tax receipt in a conspicuous place in the
premises wherein he carries on his occupation. (1980 Code § 2-4)
3-3A-7: TAX RECOVERABLE BY SUIT:
All sums due from any person by reason of occupation taxes imposed by this
article and all penalties occurring from such person by reason of failure to
pay such tax shall be recoverable at the suit of the city brought against such
person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In any such suit, in addition to
the tax and penalties, the plaintiff shall recover interest, at the rate of ten
percent (10%) per annum upon all sums due by way of tax and penalty from the
date of accrual thereof, and all costs of collection, judicial or otherwise,
including reasonable attorney fees (which shall be paid to the attorney
representing the plaintiff in the suit), all to be determined by the court.
Prosecution for an offense against the city arising out of the failure to pay a
tax levied by this article, regardless of the outcome thereof or of its
continued pendency, shall not constitute a defense or a bar in any manner to
the collection of the tax and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided.
(1980 Code § 2-6)
3-3A-8: PENALTY:
Any person who engages in any one of the occupations taxed by this article
without paying the occupation tax imposed therefor is guilty of an offense
against the city and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such person engages in the occupation without
payment of the tax shall constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 2-5; amd.
2002 Code)
ARTICLE B. MANUFACTURE, SALE AND DISTRIBUTION
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Purpose
3-3B-2: Definitions
3-3B-3: Signs; Advertising
3-3B-4: Separate Premises Required; Restrictions
3-3B-5: Sales And Consumption In Retail Stores
3-3B-6: Location Of Stores
3-3B-7: Under Age Persons; Restrictions
3-3B-8: Sales To Certain Persons
3-3B-9: Transportation Of Liquor
3-3B-10: Drinking In Public; Intoxicated Persons
3-3B-11: Days And Hours Of Operation
3-3B-12: Sales On Credit
3-3B-13: Offering Prizes Or Gifts
3-3B-14: Penalty
3-3B-1: PURPOSE:
This article is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the city to
preserve the public peace, safety, health, and good order thereof, and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state, as established by the Oklahoma
alcoholic beverage control act 1 . (1980 Code § 2-8)
 
Notes
1 1. 37 OS.
3-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words and terms within article A of this chapter, this article and article C of
this chapter, shall be given the same meanings and definitions set forth for
them by the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage control act, 37 Oklahoma Statutes
section 506. (2002 Code)
3-3B-3: SIGNS; ADVERTISING:
   A.   Sign Restrictions: No person owning, operating, or maintaining a retail
alcoholic beverage store shall cause or permit it to be designated by more than
one sign, which shall contain only the words "Retail Alcoholic Liquor Store",
or any combination of such words, or any of them, and which shall contain no
letter or figure more than four inches (4") in height or more than three inches
(3") in width, and in which the lines of words, if more than one, shall not be
more than one inch (1") apart. (1980 Code § 2-10)
   B.   Advertising Restricted: No person shall advertise, or cause to be
advertised, in any manner, other than as authorized by subsection A of this
section, the sale of alcoholic beverages within the limits of the city, except
as authorized by law. (1980 Code § 2-11)
3-3B-4: SEPARATE PREMISES REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Separation From Adjoining Premises: No person shall maintain, operate,
or assist, in any manner, the maintenance or operation of a retail alcoholic
beverage store or package store in premises which is not separated from
adjoining premises on which any other goods, wares, or merchandise is sold or
services are rendered by nontransparent walls, broken only, if at all, by a
passageway to which the public is not admitted. (1980 Code § 2-12)
   B.   Taking Beverages Through Passageway: No person shall take any alcoholic
beverage through any passageway described in subsection A of this section, for
the purpose of selling or reselling such beverage, or for the purpose of
delivery thereof in connection with a sale of such beverages. (1980 Code § 2-
13)
3-3B-5: SALES AND CONSUMPTION IN RETAIL STORES:
   A.   Sales:
      1.   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages at a retail
alcoholic beverage store other than:
         a.   In retail containers;
         b.   At ordinary room temperatures;
         c.   In the original package; and
         d.   For consumption off the premises.
No person owning, employed in, or in any manner assisting in the maintenance
and operation of such store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic beverage to be
consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be opened on the premises
of such store. (1980 Code § 2-14)
      2.   No person shall sell at retail, and no person shall deliver in
consequence or in completion of such sale, any alcoholic beverages at any place
in the city, except at a retail alcoholic beverage store or as otherwise
permitted by the city and the laws of the state. (1980 Code § 2-16)
   B.   Consumption On Premises: No person shall drink or consume in any manner
alcoholic beverages on the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store, nor
shall any person open or break the seal of any original package or retail
container containing alcoholic beverages on the premises of any such retail
alcoholic beverage store. (1980 Code § 2-15)
3-3B-6: LOCATION OF STORES:
   A.   Area Zoned For Location: No retail alcoholic beverage store shall be
located, maintained or operated by any person at any time within the boundaries
of the city, except on Broadway Street, from its intersection with Haven Hill
east to its intersection with Oklahoma Street, and on the north side of
Broadway Street beginning at the intersection of Broadway Street with Oklahoma
Street and continuing from the east boundary line of Oklahoma Street a distance
of three hundred feet (300') in an easterly direction along the north side of
Broadway Street in the city; on Ohio Street, from its intersection with
Drumright Street, south to its intersection with Fulkerson Street; and on
Pennsylvania Street from Broadway, south to Fulkerson Street, and the foregoing
areas shall be the areas within the city zoned for the location of said retail
alcoholic beverage store, except insofar as said areas are limited or
prohibited by state law.
   B.   Location In Accordance With Law: No person shall own, operate,
maintain, or be interested in any retail alcoholic beverage store which is
located at a place within the city which is forbidden as a location for such
store by the laws of the state. (Ord. 304, 11-12-2013)
3-3B-7: UNDERAGE PERSONS; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Selling Or Furnishing To Minor: No person shall knowingly sell,
deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages, at any place within the city, to any
person who is under twenty one (21) years of age. (1980 Code § 2-19)
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age: No person under twenty one (21) years of age
shall misrepresent his age in writing or present false documentation of age, or
otherwise, for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him alcoholic
beverages. (1980 Code § 2-20)
   C.   Employment:
      1.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall be employed in
the selling, manufacture, distribution, or other handling of alcoholic
beverages at any place within the city. (1980 Code § 2-24)
      2.   No person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years at any place within the city,
in the selling, manufacture, distribution, or other handling of alcoholic
beverages. (1980 Code § 2-25)
   D.   Entering, Remaining On Premises:
      1.   No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store in the
city, and no person employed therein, shall permit any person under twenty one
(21) years of age to enter into, to remain within, or to loiter about the
premises of such retail alcoholic beverage store. (1980 Code § 2-29)
      2.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall enter into,
remain within, or loiter about the premises of any retail alcoholic beverage
store within the city. (1980 Code § 2-30)
3-3B-8: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
No person, at any place within the city, shall sell, deliver, or knowingly
furnish alcoholic beverage to an intoxicated person or to any person who has
been adjudged insane or mentally deficient. (1980 Code § 2-21)
3-3B-9: TRANSPORTATION OF LIQUOR:
No person within the city shall transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street, or alley any alcoholic beverage unless such alcoholic beverage
is:
   A.   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken and the original
cap or cork not removed from the container; or
   B.   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(1980 Code § 2-22)
3-3B-10: DRINKING IN PUBLIC; INTOXICATED PERSONS:
Drinking and Intoxication in Public: No person within the city shall drink
intoxicating liquor in any public place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in
a public place within the city. (1980 Code § 2-23) An exception to drinking in
public is Farmers Markets and other events when they are registered with the
Oklahoma Department of Agriculture, Food and Forestry as a trade show, which
therefore allows for the sale of alcohol at the market. Registered wineries are
allowed to give free samples and to sell by the glass. However, per state
statutes and/or the Able Commission, the entire market becomes the tasting room
and therefore it is the responsibility of the wineries to monitor all alcohol
consumption whether from their winery or not while on the premise. If a
compliance check is done and someone underage is served, every winery will be
ticketed since it is a shared space. Alcohol cannot leave the market;
therefore, wineries can sell by the glass to be consumed at the market, but
bottles must be taken home to be consumed. (Ord. 338, 5-10-2021)
3-3B-11: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Days And Hours: No person shall open for business or keep open for
business, or sell or deliver alcoholic beverages to any person at a retail
alcoholic beverage store in the city on any Sunday, New Year's Day, Memorial
Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas
Day, or, while the polls are open on the day of any general, primary, run off
primary, or special election, whether national, state, county, or city, or on
any other day except between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. (1980 Code § 2-26)
   B.   Wholesalers Selling To Retailers On Certain Days: No wholesale dealer
in alcoholic beverages, and no officer, agent, or employee of such a dealer,
shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic beverage store in the city any
amount of spirits or wines on Saturday of any week, Sunday of any week, New
Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving
Day, or Christmas Day, or, while the polls are open on the day of any general,
primary, run off primary, or special election, whether national, state, county,
or city. (1980 Code § 2-31)
3-3B-12: SALES ON CREDIT:
No person, at any retail alcoholic beverage store in the city, shall sell any
alcoholic beverage on credit, except as authorized by state law. (1980 Code §
2-27)
3-3B-13: OFFERING PRIZES OR GIFTS:
No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store, and no person
employed therein, shall offer or furnish any prize, premium, gift, or similar
inducement to a consumer in connection with a sale of alcoholic beverage. (1980
Code § 2-28)
3-3B-14: PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any violation of any of the provisions of this article
is an offense against the city and, upon conviction of such offense, the
violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 2-34; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Separate Offense For Each Day: As to any violation of any provision of
this article which consists in the maintenance of physical condition of
premises or of physical structures, each day's violation shall constitute a
separate offense. (1980 Code § 2-33)
ARTICLE C. LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Licenses And Permits Required
3-3C-3: License Fees
3-3C-4: Sell Or Furnish To Minors
3-3C-5: Hours Of Sale Restricted
3-3C-6: Intoxicated Persons
3-3C-7: Gambling
3-3C-8: Open View Of Premises
3-3C-9: Public Nuisance; Abatement
3-3C-10: Penalty
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
BEER PARLOR: Any place in the city of Drumright where "low point beer", as
herein defined, is sold, distributed, or dispensed for consumption on the
premises.
LOW POINT BEER: All beverages containing more than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%)
alcohol by weight.
RETAIL BEER PARLOR DEALER: Any and all persons, firms, corporations,
associations or concessionaires who sell, distribute or dispense any "low point
beer" as herein defined, from a "beer parlor" as herein defined.
RETAIL DEALER: All persons, firms, corporations, associations or
concessionaires who sell, distribute or dispense any "low point beer", as
herein defined, within the corporate limits of the city of Drumright, without
regard to the place where such beverages may be consumed or used.
RETAIL PACKAGE DEALER: Any and all persons, firms, corporations, associations,
or concessionaires who sell, distribute or dispense any "low point beer", as
herein defined, in original packages and not for consumption on the premises of
the dealer. (1980 Code § 2-63; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-2: LICENSES AND PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   City License: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any retail
dealer, whether permanent or temporary, at any place within the incorporated
limits of the city, to sell, distribute or dispense any low point beer without
having first applied for and received a city license as herein required. (1980
Code § 2-72; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   State And County Permits Prerequisite: No city license shall be issued
to any retail dealer by the city clerk without a satisfactory showing that the
applicant has obtained all state and county permits required by law, and has in
all other respects complied with the laws of Oklahoma relating to the sale and
distribution of low point beer. (1980 Code § 2-73; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-3: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Imposed: From and after the adoption and effective date hereof,
there shall be levied the following annual city license fees:
      1.   Each retail dealer in "low point beer", as herein defined, for
consumption on and off the premises, twenty dollars ($20.00) per year.
      2.   Each retail dealer in low point beer in original packages and not
for consumption on the premises, ten dollars ($10.00) per year. (1980 Code § 2-
71; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Payment Of Fee: All such city license fees shall be paid to the city
clerk at the time of issuance of such licenses by the city clerk, and in the
manner prescribed herein.
   C.   Term Of License; Prorate Fee: In this connection, in the issuance of
such license, said license shall be issued to expire June 30 next after such
issuance. The amount of such license fee shall be prorated to the nearest month
then expired in that fiscal year.
   D.   License Nontransferable: The licenses herein provided for are not
transferable either to another retail dealer or for a different location in the
city. (1980 Code § 2-71)
3-3C-4: SELL OR FURNISH TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any retail dealer, his or its agents,
servants or employees to sell, barter, offer for sale, or to give away to any
minor person any low point beer for use either upon or off the premises of such
retail dealer. (1980 Code § 2-64; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-5: HOURS OF SALE RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any retail dealer of a beer parlor, his
or its agents, servants or employees, to sell or offer for sale or to give away
at such beer parlor, any low point beer for consumption on the premises,
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday and twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon Sunday. (Ord. 232, 11-6-2001; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-6: INTOXICATED PERSONS:
   A.   Sales To: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any retail dealer,
his or its agents, servants or employees to sell, barter, or dispense to any
intoxicated person any low point beer. (1980 Code § 2-66; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Dealer Intoxicated: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any retail
dealer, his or its agents or employees to sell, barter or dispense any low
point beer while such seller or dispenser of same is intoxicated. (1980 Code §
2-67; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Loitering By Intoxicated Persons: It shall be unlawful and an offense
for any retail dealer, his or its agents, servants or employees to permit or
allow any intoxicated person to loiter in or around a beer parlor or place of
business. (1980 Code § 2-68)
3-3C-7: GAMBLING:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any retail dealer, his or its agents,
servants, or employees in the conduct and operation of a beer parlor, or a
place of business where low point beer is bartered or sold, to violate or
permit the violation therein of what is commonly known as the "gambling laws"
of the state, or criminal ordinances of the city. (1980 Code § 2-69; amd. 2002
Code)
3-3C-8: OPEN VIEW OF PREMISES:
   A.   View From Outside Premises: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
retail dealer, his or its agents, servants or employees, in the operation of a
beer parlor, to barter, sell or dispense therein low point beer if the outer
doors or windows at the time are screened from public view from the street or
sidewalk by any curtain, shade, painting of windows or doors, or by partition
or otherwise, so as to screen from public view the customers of said beer
parlor.
   B.   License Withheld For Violation: No license shall be issued for a beer
parlor if screened in violation hereof. (1980 Code § 2-70; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-9: PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT:
The conduct of any beer parlor in violation of the terms and provisions of this
article is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the proper officers of
the city, on resolution of the city commission, may summarily abate the same,
or may do the same by suit in the district court of Creek County, as provided
by 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 16 and 17. (1980 Code § 2-75)
3-3C-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this article
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction therefor, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such violation continues or is permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 2-76; amd. 2002
Code)
CHAPTER 4
ENTERTAINMENTS; SHOWS
ARTICLE A. DEVICES AND SHOWS ON STREETS 1
SECTION:
3-4A-1: License Required
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
3-4A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Devices On Streets: It is unlawful and an offense for any person,
without a license therefor, to maintain or construct any cane rack, doll rack,
knife board, shooting gallery, wheel of fortune, or any other such device upon
any of the streets or alleys of the city. (1980 Code § 5-12)
   B.   Shows On Streets: It is hereby made unlawful and an offense for any
person, not having a license therefor, to maintain or exhibit any circus show
or animal show, or to give any concert or show for profit, upon any street or
alley of the city. (1980 Code § 5-13)
ARTICLE B. BILLIARDS, POOL AND BOWLING 1
SECTION:
3-4B-1: Pool And Billiard Halls; License Required
3-4B-2: Public Nuisances Enumerated
3-4B-3: Bowling Alleys
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
3-4B-1: POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS; LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to operate any pool or billiard
hall, room, place or table for a consideration of any kind without first having
obtained a license as provided by this article. (1980 Code § 5-38)
3-4B-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
All billiard halls, pool rooms or other places where any billiard, pool or
combination billiard and pool table or tables are or may be kept or operated
for hire shall be deemed public nuisances under any one of the following
circumstances, with or without a license:
   A.   Gambling; Betting Or Lottery:
      1.   When any slot machine, game of chance or any betting is permitted in
or operated in such hall, room or place.
      2.   When any gambling, game of chance or any betting is permitted or
carried on in such hall, room or place.
      3.   When any lottery is conducted, carried on or permitted in such hall,
room or place.
   B.   Prizefights: When any prizefight, boxing contest, wrestling match,
fistic encounter, fight or other contest of physical strength is carried on or
permitted in such hall, room or place.
   C.   Disorderly Conduct:
      1.   When any disorderly conduct or practice is permitted in such hall,
room or place.
      2.   When any disturbance or disorderly assembly is permitted in such
hall, room, or place.
   D.   Intoxicating Liquor:
      1.   When any intoxicating liquors are bartered, sold, given away or
otherwise furnished or the same permitted to be done in such hall, room or
place.
      2.   When the drinking of alcoholic beverages is permitted in such hall,
room or place.
      3.   When any alcoholic beverages are bartered, sold, given away or
otherwise furnished or the same permitted to be done in such hall, room, or
place.
   E.   Noise; Profanity: When any loud, boisterous or unusual noise or profane
or vulgar language is permitted in such hall, room or place.
   F.   Immoral Or Indecent Shows: When any immoral or indecent show or
exhibition is permitted in such hall, room or place.
   G.   Character And Reputation: When any person or persons of bad character
and reputation are permitted to loaf or loiter in and about such hall, room or
place.
   H.   Days And Hours Of Operation:
      1.   Sundays: When such hall, room or place is opened or permitted to be
opened on the Sabbath day commonly called Sunday, except from one o'clock (1:
00) P.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. thereof.
      2.   Closing Time: When such hall, room or place is permitted to remain
open later than twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. any night, except as
provided in subsection H1 of this section.
   I.   Minors: When any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years is
permitted to enter or be in such hall, room or place; except properly
supervised recreation centers.
   J.   Annoying, Endangering Others: When anything which annoys, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others is permitted or
carried on in such hall, room or place. (1980 Code § 5-36; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4B-3: BOWLING ALLEYS:
All bowling alleys shall be subject to the same regulations, penalty and manner
of abatement as in section
3-4B-2 of this article, provided for billiard and pool halls, except that
bowling alleys may remain open on Sundays between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. (1980 Code § 5-37)
ARTICLE C. DANCE HALLS 1
SECTION:
3-4C-1: Definition; Application Of Provisions
3-4C-2: Persons Liable
3-4C-3: Licensing Requirements
3-4C-4: Police Attendance Required
3-4C-5: Location Restrictions
3-4C-6: Operating Requirements And Restrictions
3-4C-7: Minors
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
3-4C-1: DEFINITION; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Definition: The term "public dance hall" or "public ball", as used in
this article, shall be construed to mean any dance or ball to which admission
may be obtained:
      1.   By payment of a fee or by the purchase, possession, or presentation
of a ticket, token, or pass, for which a charge is made for the care of
clothing, for admission to the dance, or for dancing at the dance.
      2.   Any dance to which the public generally may obtain admission, with
or without the payment of a fee. The term "public dance hall" as used herein
shall be construed to mean any room, place or space in which a public dance or
public ball is held, or in which classes and instructions in dancing are given
for hire, together with all adjoining or connected rooms, halls, cloak rooms,
waiting rooms, rooms where drinks and refreshments are served, or other
appurtenances connected therewith to which customers of the dance have access.
   B.   Private Dances Excepted: The provisions of this article shall not be
construed in any way to apply to or interfere with private dances given at the
private homes of reputable people or to or with dances given by permanently
organized clubs, societies, or corporations, or to school or alumni dances
where the attendance is restricted to the members of the society, club or
corporation, or to the guests of the club, admitted by individual invitations
only.
   C.   Imposing Charges: Any club or organization, exacting fees or charges of
any kind or character from other than bona fide members, shall be subject to
all the provisions of this article. (1980 Code § 5-62)
3-4C-2: PERSONS LIABLE:
The owners of the premises, lessees of the premises where said public dance or
ball is being held, and all persons, firms and corporations, their agents,
servants, and employees conducting, or in any manner assisting in conducting
said public dance, including ticket sellers, ticket takers, persons conducting
or in charge of said public dance, and persons serving drinks and refreshments,
shall be considered as persons conducting said public dance, and they shall be
held jointly and severally liable, for any and all violations of the terms of
this article, and the terms of any ordinance of the city to which this article
refers or relates. (1980 Code § 5-63)
3-4C-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation, as set out in section
3-4C-2 of this article, to conduct, operate, or in any manner aid or supervise
any public dance in any capacity, or to hold or to conduct classes in dancing
or to give instructions in dancing in any public dance hall, unless and until
such person, firm or corporation shall have first been licensed for such
purpose; provided, that this section shall not apply to dancing instructions
given to members of a class in a private residence, or place other than a
public dance hall.
   B.   Application For License: Application to conduct a dance or public ball
shall be made in writing to the city clerk, on forms furnished by the city
clerk. The applicant must give his, her, its or their names and addresses, the
street number of the place where the dance or dancing instructions will be
conducted and the day or night such public dance or dancing instructions are to
be given. (1980 Code § 5-64; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Denial Of License: No license or permit shall be granted to any person,
firm or corporation whose license has been revoked by the city commission, or
for a place which has been adjudged a public nuisance, at any time within the
next preceding twelve (12) months.
   D.   Application Conditions:
      1.   Assistants Listed: Said application shall show the names and
addresses of all persons who will assist in any way in the conduct of said
public dance, either as ticket takers, hat checkers, door keepers, floor
leaders or persons serving drinks and refreshments; and no license or permit
will be issued if any of such persons do not bear a reputation for sobriety,
and for abiding by the laws of the state and city.
      2.   Time For Filing Application: Applications must be filed on or before
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of the day preceding the day of the dance.
   E.   Refusal Of License: The city clerk must refuse a permit or license
hereunder if, at any time within twelve (12) months preceding the date of the
application, the previous holder of a license or permit hereunder, or any of
its agents, servants or employees have failed to conduct a public dance at such
location, in all respects as required by this, or any other ordinance of the
city, or who have failed during said period of time to give full and complete
cooperation with the city police in the supervision of said public dance, and
bringing to trial any person charged with the commission of a crime in said
public dance hall.
   F.   Qualified Applicant: The only qualified applicant for such permit shall
be either the owner of said premises, or a lessee holding a valid written lease
thereon, through their duly qualified agents and authorized representatives.
(1980 Code § 5-64)
3-4C-4: POLICE ATTENDANCE REQUIRED:
No "public dance", as defined herein, shall be held in the city without the
attendance thereat of a special or regular police officer at all hours of the
dance, to be designated and appointed by the city manager, which said officer
shall receive compensation in such amount as the city clerk is directed to pay
and turn over to said police officer for his services, and take his receipt
therefor. (1980 Code § 5-65; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4C-5: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Residence District: No license or permit shall be issued for a place in
a residence district, where fifty percent (50%) or more of the heads of
families residing within three hundred feet (300') of such dance hall shall
object by petition in writing to the city commission. Provided, that this
subsection shall not apply to any dance hall that has been established at, or
prior to, the time of the effective date hereof. (1980 Code § 5-66)
   B.   Near Church Or School: No license for a public dance shall be granted
where the place in which it is to be held is within three hundred feet (300')
of a church or public school. (1980 Code § 5-67)
3-4C-6: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS 1 :
   A.   Closing Time: All public dances and all dance halls shall be closed on
or before twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
   B.   Prohibited On Sunday: No public dance or public ball shall be conducted
on Sunday.
   C.   Ticket Taker On Duty: A minimum of one doorkeeper or ticket taker shall
remain on duty until the closing hour.
   D.   Payment Of Admission Fee Required; Exception: Admission to persons who
have not paid an admission fee, except the manager, employees and musicians on
duty, shall not be allowed. (1980 Code § 5-68)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-1B-8 of this code.
3-4C-7: MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any proprietor, or person in charge of any public
dance or public ball to permit, or suffer any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to take part in any dance or attend the same, unless such person be
in company with, and attended by a parent or legal guardian. (1980 Code § 5-69)
ARTICLE D. AMUSEMENT CENTERS 1
SECTION:
3-4D-1: Family Amusement Center Defined
3-4D-2: Permitted Establishments
3-4D-3: Application For License; Denial; Appeal
3-4D-4: License Fee
3-4D-5: Conditions Of Operation; Hours
3-4D-6: Coin Operated Machines; Billiard Tables
3-4D-7: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
3-4D-1: FAMILY AMUSEMENT CENTER DEFINED:
A "family amusement center" is defined by this article as a room or place where
persons may gather jointly or separately to play games that are kept or
operated there for gain or profit. "Games" are defined to mean any game or
sport which is done solely for the enjoyment derived from the game itself and
does not involve gambling or other illegal activities. The term "games" shall
include the games of pool, snooker, and billiards, which may be coin operated
and shall also include any other coin operated amusement devices. A room or
place in which are located more than two (2) such tables or games shall be
considered a "family amusement center". (1980 Code § 5-71; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4D-2: PERMITTED ESTABLISHMENTS:
The establishment and operation of family amusement centers in the city is
authorized and permitted with the passage of this article and subject to the
regulations herein contained. (1980 Code § 5-70)
3-4D-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; DENIAL; APPEAL:
   A.   Application: Application for license to be issued hereunder shall be
made upon forms prepared and made available by the chief of police or city
manager, and must be answered fully before such license shall be issued.
   B.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for license, the chief of
police shall promptly cause an investigation to be made of the applicant, and
of the manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the facility.
   C.   Denial Of License: If the chief of police disapproves and denies the
application, he shall notify the applicant in writing within five (5) days
after the denial thereof, giving the reasons for the denial of the license.
   D.   Appeal:
      1.   Any person, firm, corporation or association whose application for
license is denied shall have the right to appeal to the city commission.
      2.   Written notice of the appeal must be made by the applicant to the
city manager within five (5) days following the receipt of denial thereof and
the city manager shall cause said appeal to be placed on the agenda of the next
regular meeting of the city commission at which time hearing shall be held
thereon. (1980 Code § 5-73)
3-4D-4: LICENSE FEE:
Following approval of application for license, the applicant shall purchase a
license from the city clerk for each location where such a center is operated.
The license fee for same is fixed at twenty five dollars ($25.00) per location
per year. The fee charged shall be for the remainder of the fiscal year of
payment of license fees and each fiscal year thereafter. (1980 Code § 5-75)
3-4D-5: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION; HOURS:
   A.   Activities Authorized: Family amusement centers may operate pool,
snooker, billiard tables, or any other coin operated game for a profit for the
use of all persons of all ages and either sex.
   B.   Liquor Prohibited: No beer or other forms of intoxicating liquor may be
sold or consumed on the premises.
   C.   Gambling Prohibited: No gambling or wagering of any kind shall be
permitted on the premises.
   D.   Days And Hours Of Operation: All such places of business shall close at
ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. each night except Friday and Saturday, and not
open again until nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. the following morning, except that on
Sunday the same shall remain closed until twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and shall
close again at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on Sunday. Same may remain open until
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and Saturday. (1980 Code § 5-72)
3-4D-6: COIN OPERATED MACHINES; BILLIARD TABLES:
   A.   Operating Coin Operated Machines At Other Locations: Any other local
place of business, other than a "family amusement center" as defined herein,
may operate not to exceed two (2) coin operated pool, snooker or billiard
tables, or combinations thereof, when the operation of the same are incidental
to some other principal business, without the necessity of the purchase of any
license for the location but subject to the regulation for fees as provided in
this code. (1980 Code § 5-76)
   B.   Fees For Pool, Snooker Or Billiard Tables:
      1.   The owners of the tables which are governed by the provisions of
this article shall pay an annual fee to the city, in addition to the annual
license fee provided above, the following sums:
 
Number Of Pool, Snooker Or Billiard Tables Fee
1 to 10                                    $ 50.00
11 to 20                                   90.00
21 to 50                                   125.00
More than 50                               150.00
 
      2.   License fees on all other amusement devices located in family
amusement centers shall be paid as set forth in this chapter. (1980 Code § 5-
77; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4D-7: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: A violation of any of the terms and provisions of any of the
sections of this article, with or without the knowledge of the owner, licensee
or person in charge of the premises at the time same occurred, shall be grounds
for a fifteen (15) day suspension or complete cancellation of the license
issued hereunder.
   B.   Notice: The city manager shall, upon learning of such violation, issue
notice to the licensee of the suspension or cancellation of said license.
   C.   Appeal:
      1.   Any person, firm, corporation or association whose license is
suspended or canceled shall have the right to appeal to the city commission.
      2.   Written notice of the appeal must be made by the applicant to the
city manager within five (5) days following the notification of suspension or
cancellation thereof and the city manager shall cause said appeal to be placed
on the agenda of the next regular meeting of the city commission at which time
hearing shall be held thereon. (1980 Code § 5-74)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL SALES 1
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required; Fee
3-5-3: Application For License
3-5-4: Issuance Of License
3-5-5: Exemptions
3-5-6: Compliance Required
3-5-7: Restrictions On Conducting Sales
3-5-8: Revocation Of License
3-5-9: Separate Violations
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words and terms, unless otherwise
clearly indicated by the context, shall have the following meanings:
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Drumright, Creek and Payne Counties,
Oklahoma.
OFFENSE: Every, each and any act done in violation of the terms of this
chapter.
RESIDENTIAL SALE: Any offering to the public for sale, barter or exchange, of
goods, articles, wares, and merchandise of any character whatsoever which
occurs or is conducted in a building constructed for, or used and occupied as,
a private residence, whether single-family or multi-family, or from any garage,
carport or other structure appurtenant to any such building; and shall include,
without exclusion of other sales falling within this definition, all such
transactions or offerings at vendue commonly known and referred to as garage
sales, porch sales, room sales, backyard sales, front yard sales, yard sales,
or patio sales; provided however, that this definition shall not include
offerings of specific items through an advertisement particularly naming and
identifying each individual item which is to be sold. (1980 Code § 5-41)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Requirement; Advertising Restricted: It is unlawful and an offense for
any person to hold, conduct, engage in, or participate in any manner in a
residential sale without having first obtained a license, as required by this
chapter, and no person shall advertise or publicly announce in any way that a
residential sale of any kind will be held before such person has obtained a
license. (1980 Code § 5-45)
   B.   Separate License Required: A separate license shall be required for
each location at which a residential sale is to be held, and no location shall
be eligible for more than one license in any six (6) month period. (1980 Code §
5-46)
   C.   License Fee: The license fee shall be five dollars ($5.00) for each
such residential sale held. (Ord. 266, 12-14-2009)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An applicant for a license shall furnish the city clerk the following
information:
   A.   Full name and address.
   B.   The location at which the proposed residential sale is to be held.
(1980 Code § 5-47)
   C.   The date or dates upon which the sale will be held.
   D.   An affidavit from the applicant to the effect that all goods to be sold
at the residential sale are owned by the applicant and have not been obtained
for the purpose of reselling the articles at said sale. (1980 Code § 5-47; amd.
Ord. 266, 12-14-2009)
3-5-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The city clerk is authorized to issue a license for a residential sale for a
period not to exceed seven (7) consecutive days to any person applying therefor
and who otherwise complies with the requirements of this chapter. (1980 Code §
5-48)
3-5-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to, or affect, the following
persons:
   A.   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   Persons acting in accordance within their powers and duties as public
officials.
   C.   Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auctions. (1980 Code § 5-42)
3-5-6: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct a residential sale except in strict compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1980 Code § 5-44)
3-5-7: RESTRICTIONS ON CONDUCTING SALES:
   A.   Intervals Between Sales: It is unlawful and an offense for any person
to hold, conduct, engage in, or participate in any manner in a residential
sale, or to allow a residential sale to be held or conducted on premises under
his control or ownership more than one time within any three (3) month period
and for no longer than four (4) consecutive days at any one time.
   B.   Signs: There shall be not more than two (2) signs or other devices used
for the purpose of calling attention to the sale on the premises of the sale,
said signs or devices to be not more than eight (8) square feet in size on any
surface. All other signs placed at any other locations off the premises of the
sale must be placed on private property with the permission of the property
owner. No signs may be placed on city rights of way or property or on utility
poles at other locations within the city. Any such signs placed in violation of
this provision containing an address shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation and shall make the person responsible for the sale subject to a
citation for littering which shall be prosecuted in the Drumright municipal
court.
   C.   Display Of Goods: The sale area at any residential sale shall be
confined to the premises owned or occupied by the person or persons operating
the sale. In no event shall articles or goods be displayed on the city right of
way or displayed in such a manner as to constitute a distraction to persons who
may be driving on any adjacent street.
   D.   Food And Drink For Public Consumption Prohibited: Due to public health
requirements, in no event shall either food or drink be sold or furnished at or
in connection with a residential sale to, or for the benefit of any member of
the public attending such sale. (Ord. 266, 12-14-2009)
3-5-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or any application for
issuance of a license may be refused by the city clerk in the event the
application submitted by the applicant, or license holder, contains any false,
fraudulent, or misleading statement. (1980 Code § 5-50)
3-5-9: SEPARATE VIOLATIONS:
Every article sold, every act performed, and every day a sale is conducted in
violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(1980 Code § 5-55)
CHAPTER 6
PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND AND JUNK DEALERS 1
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Fee
3-6-2: Bond Required
3-6-3: Register; Information Required
3-6-4: Inspection By Police
3-6-5: Days And Hours Of Operation
3-6-6: Certain Sales Prohibited
3-6-7: Minors Restricted
3-6-8: Concealing Lost Property
3-6-9: Suspicious Circumstances To Prevent Sale
3-6-10: Forfeiture Of License; Violation An Offense
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
3-6-1: LICENSE FEE:
Pawnbrokers, secondhand dealers, junk dealers and every person engaged in the
business of receiving goods upon pledge or under chattel mortgages shall pay an
annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00). Said license shall be issued by the
city clerk. (1980 Code § 5-25)
3-6-2: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Bond; Conditions: Every person hereafter applying for a license to
engage in or carry on the business of pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, junk
dealer and every person engaged in the business of receiving goods upon pledge
or under chattel mortgages shall, before such license is issued to him, enter
into a bond with the city with sureties approved by the city clerk, in the
penal sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), conditioned that said applicant
will strictly and faithfully observe all ordinances, regulations and
requirements of the city in relation to pawnbrokers, secondhand dealers and
persons engaged in the business of receiving goods upon pledge or under chattel
mortgages, or their business, and will pay all costs, fines and penalties
incurred on account of his failure or neglect and will pay all damages
resulting to any person by reason of his wrongfully taking, purchasing, or
receiving from a minor.
   B.   Filing With Clerk; Nonliability Of City: The bond shall be filed with
the city clerk and may be sued upon by any person damaged, as aforesaid, but in
no event shall the city be liable for the cost of such suit. (1980 Code § 5-26)
3-6-3: REGISTER; INFORMATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Registration Of Items; Other Information:
      1.   Every pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, junk dealer and every person
engaged in the business of receiving goods upon pledge or under chattel
mortgages shall keep at his place of business a register in which he shall
enter in writing a minute description of all property taken, purchased or
received by him, including any number that may be in or upon any article,
together with the time and the name and place of residence (giving street and
number, if within the city) of the person leaving said property, also the
amount paid for or loaned upon each article so taken, the interest charged, and
the time when the loan falls due; which register shall be kept clean and
legible.
      2.   He shall make such entry within one hour after the receipt or
purchase of such property.
   B.   Entries In Ink: Every entry shall be made in ink and shall not in any
manner be obliterated or erased.
   C.   Ticket Issued To Person: To the person negotiating or leaving such
property, he shall give a plainly written or printed ticket, having upon it a
full and perfect copy of all the entries required by ordinance to be kept in
such register, for which copy no charge shall be made.
   D.   Bill Of Sale For Certain Property: No person shall be required to
furnish such description of any property purchased from manufacturers or
wholesale dealers having an established place of business. But such goods must
be accompanied by a bill of sale or other written evidence of open and
legitimate purchase, and must be shown to any officer when demanded. (1980 Code
§ 5-27; amd. 2002 Code)
3-6-4: INSPECTION BY POLICE:
   A.   Register: Said register, so kept by said person, shall at all times be
kept open to the inspection of the chief of police and sheriff of Creek County,
or the deputy of either, any officer of the police force of the city, the city
attorney, the district attorney and anyone authorized in writing for that
purpose by the chief of the police force, which authority shall be exhibited to
the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, junk dealer, or person engaged in the
business of receiving such property, as aforesaid. (1980 Code § 5-28; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   Articles Purchased Or Pledged: Every dealer covered by this chapter
shall, upon request, show and exhibit to such person or officer for inspection
any article or articles purchased, taken or received by him, unless the time of
the pledge has expired and the goods sold and delivered to the purchaser. (1980
Code § 5-28)
3-6-5: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
No pawnbroker or other dealer or person covered by this chapter shall purchase,
take or receive on deposit or from any person any article of property between
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., and all such
dealers shall remain closed all day on Sundays. (1980 Code § 5-29)
3-6-6: CERTAIN SALES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense in the city for any junk dealer, foundry,
repair shop, pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or for any person whomsoever, to
purchase, take or receive in pledge, by gift or on deposit, or to accept
possession of any article of property of, or from, any common drunkard, from
any person under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs, from any
person who is an habitual user of drugs of any kind, from any person who is
commonly known to be a "police court character", or from any person who has
previously been convicted of petty larceny. (1980 Code § 5-30)
3-6-7: MINORS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense in the city for any person in charge of any
junk shop, secondhand store, pawnshop, or otherwise to purchase from or advance
money to any minor, under the age of eighteen (18) years, upon any things or
articles of value, or have any dealings respecting the title of property in the
possession of a minor without the written consent of the parents or guardian of
such minor, which shall be kept on file and subject to police inspection. (1980
Code § 5-31; amd. 2002 Code)
3-6-8: CONCEALING LOST PROPERTY:
Any person who shall attempt to conceal any stray or lost goods found or taken
up by him or shall efface any marks or brands thereon, or carry the same beyond
the limits of the city, or knowingly permit the same to be done, or shall
wilfully fail to cause the same to be advertised, sold or otherwise dealt with
as provided by the ordinances of the city, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense. (1980 Code § 5-32)
3-6-9: SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES TO PREVENT SALE:
Any suspicious circumstances, or circumstances sufficient to put any ordinarily
prudent person upon his guard, shall be sufficient notice to any person to whom
property shall be offered for gift, sale, mortgage or pledge, to prohibit them
from accepting same; and any knowledge, notice, or information, as to the
improper character of the person offering same must prevent such sale, gift,
mortgage or pledge from being made until an investigation shall reveal that the
same may be lawfully made. The failure to exercise the precautions herein
prescribed, and the accepting of a gift, sale, mortgage or pledge of property
prohibited herein, which shall be stolen or shall be in the possession of one
not entitled thereto, which shall be disposed of by one not entitled or
competent to sell, pledge, mortgage or give away the same, shall be and
constitute an offense and be unlawful. (1980 Code § 5-33)
3-6-10: FORFEITURE OF LICENSE; VIOLATION AN OFFENSE:
   A.   Violation; Forfeit License: Any pawnbroker, junk dealer, secondhand
dealer, or any other person who may be engaged in any calling or occupation
which shall, under present or future ordinances of the city, require a license
or permit, who shall be guilty of the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who shall permit an employee or agent, in the course of such
employment or agency, to be guilty of the violation of any provision hereof,
shall in addition to the fine or imprisonment otherwise provided as a penalty
therefor, be, upon conviction, deprived of such license or permit; and upon
conviction, the clerk shall immediately revoke such license or permit.
   B.   Operation Without License Or Permit: Any person who shall operate or
engage in any business without first procuring a license and filing a bond as
herein provided shall be guilty of an offense, and each day's operation shall
constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 5-34)
CHAPTER 7
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE ESTABLISHMENTS 1
SECTION:
3-7-1: Location Within City Unlawful
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
3-7-1: LOCATION WITHIN CITY UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to establish, maintain
or operate within the corporate limits of the city any automobile salvage, junk
or wrecking establishment. (1980 Code § 5-35; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 8
VEHICLES FOR HIRE
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definition
3-8-2: Registration Of Vehicles; Application
3-8-3: Vehicle Registration; Certificate Of Convenience And Necessity
3-8-4: License Fees
3-8-5: Public Liability Insurance
3-8-6: Inspection Of Vehicles
3-8-7: Cabstands Designated
3-8-8: Driver Drinking Liquor Or Intoxicated
3-8-9: Revocation Of License
3-8-10: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITION:
The term "motor vehicle" as used in this chapter shall be construed to mean any
and all motor vehicles used by any person, firm or corporation within the city
limits, for hire. (1980 Code § 21-1)
3-8-2: REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES; APPLICATION:
   A.   Registration: All motor vehicles offered to or used by the public for
hire within the city limits shall be registered with the city clerk. (1980 Code
§ 21-2)
   B.   Application: Any person, firm or corporation using a motor vehicle for
hire as mentioned in this chapter shall file his application in writing with
the city clerk, showing the name of the owner, the name of the operator of such
vehicle, the purpose for which such vehicle is offered to or used by the
public, and the serial number or engine number of each such motor vehicle, and
a description of such vehicle by make and model. (1980 Code § 21-3)
3-8-3: VEHICLE REGISTRATION; CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY:
   A.   Vehicle Registration:
      1.   Issuance By Clerk: When such application is filed, the city clerk
shall register such vehicle in a book to be kept by him for such purposes and
shall issue to the owner thereof a certificate showing such registration and
the purposes for which such motor vehicle is offered to the public for hire.
      2.   Display Of Registration In Vehicle: Such certificate shall be at all
times carried in such motor vehicle and displayed in a place visible by
passengers of such vehicle.
      3.   Transfer Allowed: Such certificate may be transferred from one
vehicle to another by the owner to whom the certificate was granted, upon
giving notice to the city clerk of such transfer, and by registering the serial
number or the motor number and description of the vehicle to which the
certificate is transferred. (1980 Code § 21-4)
   B.   Certificate Of Convenience And Necessity: Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 22-118, the city may require the holding of a certificate of
convenience and necessity as a condition precedent to issuance of a city
license for the operation of a taxicab. (2002 Code)
3-8-4: LICENSE FEES:
At the time of registration of such motor vehicles and for the purpose of
defraying the expenses of police supervision, inspection and issuance of the
certificate herein provided for, the owner of each motor vehicle shall pay a
yearly license fee as provided for in section
3-1-8 of this title. Said payments shall be for the remainder of the fiscal
year of payment of license fees as provided in this chapter and there shall be
license fees for each year thereafter. (1980 Code § 21-9; amd. 2002 Code)
3-8-5: PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   Operators: All owners and operators of motor vehicles for hire, as
herein designated, shall purchase, and have in full force and effect at all
times during which such motor vehicle or vehicles are operated within the city,
a policy of public liability insurance covering any person, firm or corporation
who might suffer injury or damage by reason of negligence of the owner or
operator of said motor vehicle or vehicles for hire, arising from the ownership
or operation thereof. Said public liability insurance shall be for the minimum
limits as set by motion or resolution of the city commission.
   B.   Taxicabs:
      1.   In addition, to subsection A of this section, all taxicabs shall be
required to carry minimum limit liability insurance coverage required to fully
comply with the financial responsibility laws of the state.
      2.   There shall be no maximum limits for the amount of such insurance
carried.
      3.   A certificate showing the above insurance coverage shall be
deposited with the city clerk for each vehicle operated for hire within the
city. (1980 Code § 21-8)
3-8-6: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Certificate Of Inspection: Each motor vehicle shall be inspected at
least once every thirty (30) days by a competent mechanic and his certificate
of inspection shall be displayed in plain sight within said motor vehicle,
showing that brakes, tires, steering apparatus, horn and lights have been
inspected and found to be in good condition. Such certificate of inspection
shall be signed by the mechanic making the inspection and by the chief or
police every thirty (30) days.
   B.   Additional Inspection: The chief of police may require an additional
inspection by a competent mechanic of any such motor vehicle at any time he
deems it necessary. (1980 Code § 21-5)
3-8-7: CABSTANDS DESIGNATED:
No person, firm or corporation shall be permitted to use the parking areas of
the city in which to park said vehicles or from which to solicit business,
except in such places as the commission shall from time to time designate.
(1980 Code § 21-7)
3-8-8: DRIVER DRINKING LIQUOR OR INTOXICATED:
No person shall be permitted to operate such motor vehicle while under the
influence of intoxicating liquors, and for this purpose, the drinking of any
alcoholic beverage in any amount shall be construed and considered enough to
make such driver under the influence of intoxicating liquor. (1980 Code § 21-6)
3-8-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If the operator of any such vehicle shall be convicted in any court within the
state for the violation of any law pertaining to the possession, use or sale of
intoxicating liquors while operating said motor vehicle, his permit to operate
said vehicle within the city, or any other vehicles for hire, shall immediately
and automatically be revoked, and he shall not be permitted to operate a
vehicle for hire within the city for a period of one year from that date.
Provided, that, upon two (2) such convictions, he shall not be permitted to
operate such motor vehicle within the city again. (1980 Code § 21-10)
3-8-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter, or
any owner or licensee of any taxicab who allows or permits same to be driven or
operated by any person who does not have a current city driver's license, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (1980 Code § 21-11; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: General Requirements
3-9-3: Medical Marijuana Dispensary
3-9-4: Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing And/Or Processing Facilities
3-9-5: Medical Marijuana Wholesale And/Or Storage Facilities
3-9-6: Medical Marijuana Growing For Personal Use
3-9-7: Burning Requirements For Medical Marijuana
3-9-8: Penalty
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES: Any medical
marijuana growing or processing facility licensed by the State of Oklahoma to
grow or process medical marijuana in excess of twelve (12) plants. Growing
includes the cultivation, manufacturing, processing, packaging and distribution
of marijuana and marijuana products. Processing including, but not limited to:
drying, cleaning, curing, packaging and extraction of active ingredients to
create medical marijuana, medical marijuana products or concentrates.
MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITY: Any wholesale or storage
establishment licensed by the State of Oklahoma and City of Drumright that
acquires, processes, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, sells
or dispenses marijuana or related supplies and educational materials to a
holder of a valid medical marijuana dispensary license.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: A retail medical marijuana establishment licensed
by the State of Oklahoma and the City of Drumright to sell or dispense medical
marijuana or medical marijuana products.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL USE: Any individual licensed by the
State of Oklahoma and the City of Drumright to grow up to twelve (12) plants
within a single residence for personal medical use.
The City hereby adopts all other terms and definitions as established by State
law or Department of Health regulations. In the event of a conflict between any
definition contained herein, the definition promulgated by the State or the
Department of Health shall prevail. (Ord. 331, 10-9-2018)
3-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State License Required: Applicants for any license contained herein
shall be required to possess a valid State of Oklahoma issued medical marijuana
license prior to making application for the City license.
   B.   Inspection: The license outlined in this chapter will be subject to
proper inspection by an authorized City inspector prior to issuance to ensure
compliance with all codes of the City.
   C.   Time Of Inspection: The property inspection will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the City inspector.
   D.   Applicant Must Be Present During Inspection: The applicant will be
required to be present during the inspection.
   E.   Compliance With Building And Fire Codes: All structures, equipment, and
apparatuses shall comply with all Building and Fire Codes adopted by the State
of Oklahoma and the City of Drumright.
   F.   License Application: The Medical Marijuana Business License Application
shall be filled out and signed by the property and business owner and submitted
to the City Clerk prior to scheduling and inspection.
   G.   Payment Of License Fee: A nonrefundable license fee, as established
herein, shall be paid at the time the application is submitted.
   H.   License Fee Use: The license fee shall be set according to and used to
offset Municipal expenses covering costs relating to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   I.   Distance Requirements: For the distance requirements outlined in this
chapter, the distance described shall be computed by direct measurement in a
straight line from the nearest property line from the parcel of land on which
the use described herein is located and the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located.
   J.   Location: All medical marijuana dispensary, commercial medical
marijuana growing and/or processing facilities and marijuana wholesale and/or
storage facility establishments shall be located within an entirely enclosed
and secure structure, as required by the Rules and Regulations of the
Department of Health, as may be amended from time to time.
   K.   Sales Tax: License holder shall remit all required State and City Sales
Taxes.
   L.   Prohibited Activities: It is the intent of the City of Drumright that
nothing in this chapter be construed to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers the health, safety
or welfare of the citizens of the City of Drumright, or causes a public
nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
State law.
   M.   Additional Regulations:
      1.   Noxious Odor: The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or
consumption of medical marijuana by a person possessing a valid State issued
marijuana license shall constitute a public nuisance.
      2.   Smoking On City Property Prohibited: Smoking and vaping marijuana
shall be prohibited on all City property including vehicles, buildings, parks
or other facilities.
      3.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Municipal Issued Marijuana License;
Hearing:
         a.   The City Manager or designee shall revoke or suspend a license
issued under this section on any of the following grounds:
            (1)   The license was procured by fraudulent conduct or false
statement of a material fact or a fact concerning the applicant was not
disclosed at the time of his application, and such fact would have constituted
just cause for refusal to issue the license; and
            (2)   Violation of City ordinance, State law or Department of
Health regulation covering medical marijuana.
         b.   Prior to suspension or revocation the permittee shall be given
notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the City Manager. If any employee has been designated by the City
Manager, such employee shall make a report to the City Manager together with a
recommendation as to whether the license should be suspended or revoked.
      4.   Compliance: Any person or entity licensed by the City of Drumright
shall comply with all State law and Department of Health rules and regulations,
as be amended from time to time.
      5.   License Revocation: Revocation of the State issued license shall
result in immediate revocation of the City issued license. (Ord. 331, 10-9-
2018)
      6.   Variances: Applicants may request variances relating to location by
following the procedures for variances set forth by the City of Drumright in
title 10, chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord. 333, 6-10-2019)
3-9-3: MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY:
Medical marijuana dispensaries are hereby allowed in the Municipal boundaries
of Drumright, Oklahoma on compliance with section
3-9-2 of this chapter, issuance of retail medical marijuana dispensary business
license and the following additional provisions:
   A.   Location: A medical marijuana dispensary license will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be located within five hundred
feet (500') of any of the following locations:
      1.   A private or public pre-school, elementary, secondary, vocational or
trade school, college or university;
      2.   A library or museum;
      3.   Public playground;
      4.   A childcare center;
      5.   Place of worship or religious assembly;
      6.   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
      7.   A juvenile or adult half-way house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      8.   A residentially zoned district; or
      9.   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
   B.   Conditions Of Operation:
      1.   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation-air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises;
      2.   The retail establishment must maintain a valid Sales Tax permit
issued by the State of Oklahoma;
      3.   No on premises use of marijuana or its derivatives shall be allowed;
      4.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail medical marijuana business license.
   C.   License And Renewal Fees: There shall be a business license fee and an
annual renewal fee in the amount of one thousand two hundred fifty dollars
($1,250.00). The annual business license will expire on June 30th and shall be
renewed prior to July 1st each year. Failure to renew will result in a penalty
of fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee and shall require re-inspection. (Ord.
331, 10-9-2018)
3-9-4: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES:
Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities are hereby
allowed within the Municipal boundaries of Drumright, Oklahoma upon compliance
of section
3-9-2 of this chapter, issuance of a commercial medical marijuana growing and/
or facility license and the following additional provisions:
   A.   Location: A commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing
facility permit will not be granted to any applicant where the approved
location would be within one thousand feet (1,000.00') of any of the following
locations:
      1.   Private or public pre-school, elementary, secondary, vocational or
trade school, college or university;
      2.   A library or museum;
      3.   Public playground;
      4.   A childcare center;
      5.   Place of worship or religious assembly;
      6.   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
      7.   A juvenile or adult half-way house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      8.   A residentially zoned district; or
      9.   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
   B.   Conditions Of Operation:
      1.   Facilities shall be secure with limited access. The secure area must
be locked at all times. A key or access code shall be provided to all emergency
services (fire, police and EMS). Changing the code or key shall not be allowed
without proper notification to all emergency services.
      2.   The establishment must maintain a valid tax permit issued by the
State of Oklahoma.
      3.   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing
of the medical marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from the public
right-of-way.
      4.   The growing area, including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with all Building and Fire Codes issued by the
State of Oklahoma and the City of Drumright.
      5.   The growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold or other related problems.
      6.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   C.   License And Renewal Fees: There shall be a business license fee and an
annual renewal fee in the amount of one thousand two hundred fifty dollars
($1,250.00). The annual business license will expire on June 30th and shall be
renewed prior to July 1st each year. Failure to renew will result in a penalty
of fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee and shall require re-inspection. (Ord.
331, 10-9-2018)
3-9-5: MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITIES:
Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facilities are hereby allowed within
the Municipal boundaries of Drumright, Oklahoma upon compliance of section
3-9-2 of this chapter, issuance of a medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage
facility license and the following additional requirements:
   A.   Location: Wholesale marijuana facilities permit will not be granted to
any applicants where the proposed location is located outside commercially
zoned areas of the City limits of Drumright.
   B.   Conditions Of Operation:
      1.   Facilities shall be secure with limited access. The secure area must
be locked at all times. A key or access code shall be provided to all emergency
services (fire, police and EMS). Changing the code or key shall not be allowed
without proper notification to all emergency services.
      2.   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
      3.   The establishment must maintain a valid tax permit issued by the
State of Oklahoma.
   C.   License And Renewal Fees: There shall be a business license fee and an
annual renewal fee in the amount of one thousand two hundred fifty dollars
($1,250.00). The annual business license will expire on June 30th and shall be
renewed prior to July 1st each year. Failure to renew will result in a penalty
of fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee and shall require re-inspection. (Ord.
331, 10-9-2018)
3-9-6: MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL USE:
Medical marijuana growing for personal use is hereby allowed in the Municipal
boundaries of Drumright, Oklahoma on compliance with section
3-9-2 of this chapter, issuance of medical marijuana growing for personal use
license and the following additional provisions:
   A.   Any license issued to an individual for the growing of medical
marijuana for personal use will be for the growing of medical marijuana at the
individual's primary residence. The City Clerk shall be notified immediately
upon any change of address of the licensee.
   B.   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for medical
marijuana cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key
or equivalent at all times except when the residential facility is actively
being supervised in person by the permit holder.
   C.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-
of-way.
   D.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with Municipal Building and Fire Codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) watts
per light. The use of gas products (CO2, butane, etc.) or CO2 and ozone
generators in the growing area is prohibited.
   E.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   F.   The primary use of the residential property in which medical marijuana
is grown shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functional
cooking, eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress
and egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation
will impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or
sanitation/bathing.
   G.   If the residence is rented, consent of the property owner shall be
obtained prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be evidenced by
a signed and notarized statement from the property owner permitting the growth
of marijuana in a residence. A copy of this signed and notarized consent must
be provided to the Drumright City Clerk.
   H.   An individual licensed to grow marijuana for personal use shall have a
license issued by the State of Oklahoma authorizing the use of medical
marijuana. Said license shall be made available to any authorized City employee
upon request.
   I.   There shall be a license fee and an annual renewal fee in the amount of
fifty dollars ($50.00). The annual license will expire on June 30th and shall
be renewed prior to July 1st each year. Failure to renew will result in a
penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee and shall require re-
inspection. (Ord. 331, 10-9-2018)
3-9-7: BURNING REQUIREMENTS FOR MEDICAL MARIJUANA:
   A.   All medical marijuana plant material and waste generated during the
cultivation, production, processing, handling, and testing of medical marijuana
and medical marijuana products must be stored, managed, and disposed of in
accordance with these rules, the Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Waste Management
Act, 63 O.S. § 427a et seq., and any other applicable Oklahoma statutes and
rules, except that medical marijuana waste shall not be subject to the
provisions of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. § 2-101
et seq.
   B.   Licensees may dispose of root balls, stems, fan leaves, seeds, and the
mature stalks or fiber produced from such stalks at the licensed premises by
open burning, incineration, burying, mulching, composting or any other
technique approved by the Department of Environmental Quality.
   C.   Burning may not be done within five hundred feet (500') of occupied
structures.
   D.   Mobile incinerators are not permitted unless specifically approved by
DEQ. (Ord. 335, 2-10-2020)
3-9-8: PENALTY:
   A.   In addition to license revocation or suspension, a violation of any of
the provisions contained in this chapter shall also be deemed an offense and
punishable, as provided in this Code.
   B.   A violation of the provisions of section
3-9-7 shall also be deemed an offense and punishable, as provided in City Code,
by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500) a day. The city may also take
civil action as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 331, 10-9-2018; amd. Ord. 335, 2-10-
2020)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Health Officer
4-1-2: Health Inspector
4-1-3: City Inspections; Protect Public Health
4-1-4: Contagious Diseases
4-1-5: Penalty
4-1-1: HEALTH OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment; County Director Serve:
      1.   The city commission may at any time by resolution direct the city
manager to appoint a health officer and may direct duties, compensations and
term of office by such resolution.
      2.   The director of the Creek County health department may serve in the
capacity of health officer. (1980 Code § 11-1)
   B.   Duties: The health officer shall have general supervision of the
enforcement of the health ordinances of the city and state within the limits of
the city and five (5) miles beyond the boundary of the city. He shall give and
perform any and all duties as are now or may hereafter be imposed upon him by
ordinance, law or the orders of the board of commissioners or the city manager.
(1980 Code § 11-2)
   C.   Directions: The orders of the health officer and all notices
promulgated by him shall be on forms provided for that purpose and shall be
served by the chief of police or other person deputized by the said health
officer. (1980 Code § 11-7)
4-1-2: HEALTH INSPECTOR:
   A.   Health Officer Serve As Inspector: The health officer shall be ex
officio health inspector and exercise all powers and duties imposed upon said
officer by the city ordinances. (1980 Code § 11-3)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the health inspector to examine into
and consider all measures necessary and prescribe reasonable rules and
regulations for the preservation of the public health of the city and to see
that all ordinances and regulations in relation thereto are observed. (1980
Code § 11-4)
4-1-3: CITY INSPECTIONS; PROTECT PUBLIC HEALTH:
   A.   Inspections Of City: It shall be the duty of the health inspector to
make or cause to be made an inspection of the city as often as he may deem
necessary and at such times as may be ordered by the board of commissioners or
city manager for the purpose of examining the sanitary conditions of the city.
   B.   Right Of Entry: The health inspector or any person acting under his
direction shall have authority to enter into and examine, at any time, all
buildings, places and premises for the purpose of ascertaining the conditions
thereof, as far as the public health may be affected thereby, and as necessary
in the performance of any city devolving on said officer. (1980 Code § 11-6)
4-1-4: CONTAGIOUS DISEASES:
   A.   Physicians; Duties:
      1.   It shall be the duty of every physician practicing within the city
to make a report to the health officer, upon forms prescribed and furnished by
the state board of health, of all cases of infectious and contagious disease,
as soon as discovered by him or coming to his knowledge. Any failure upon the
part of any physician to report within twenty four (24) hours said disease as
herein provided, shall be an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished
accordingly.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the physician in charge of such cases to
report to the same officer when it is time to fumigate such premises and said
fumigation shall be done by the owner or occupant under the direction of the
health officer or person authorized by him. (1980 Code § 11-8)
      3.   Every practicing physician in the city shall report within twenty
four (24) hours thereafter, the death of any person dying of any pestilential,
contagious or infectious disease to the health officer and such report shall
state the specific nature and type of the disease. (1980 Code § 11-9)
   B.   Health Certificate: It shall be an offense for any person having or
having had any contagious or infectious disease to go about in any public place
until he shall have obtained from the health officer, a certificate stating
that he has fully recovered from such disease, that the premises wherein he was
sick has been properly fumigated, and that he cannot impart such disease to
others; or to neglect or refuse to change and purify his wearing apparel before
going into any public place; or to so conduct himself as to cause the spreading
of the disease. (1980 Code § 11-10)
   C.   Destroying Health Notices: It shall be an offense for any person to
tear down, destroy, mutilate or deface any sign or notice placed by order of
the health officer. It shall be an offense to cover up, conceal or render
useless any such notice or to place any obstruction in front of the same. (1980
Code § 11-11)
   D.   Disease Control Authority:
      1.   The health officer shall have power, in case of public necessity, to
require all citizens of the city to be vaccinated at such times and places as
he shall direct and it shall be the duty of the said health officer to direct
that all citizens be vaccinated whenever in his opinion it becomes necessary
for the preservation of the public health.
      2.   Notice therefor shall be sufficient to all when given by
proclamation, published in one issue of a newspaper having a general
circulation in the city or by posting in five (5) public places within the city
limits. The expenses for such vaccination shall be a charge against the city.
(1980 Code § 11-12)
4-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, by doing an act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor or nuisance thereby, or who shall fail
to do any act when such provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be
an offense or misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 11-34; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisance Defined, Generally
4-2-2: Responsibility; Nuisance Unlawful
4-2-3: Time Does Not Legalize
4-2-4: Remedies
4-2-5: Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisances
4-2-6: Certain Public Nuisances Defined
4-2-7: Health Nuisances; Abatement
4-2-8: Throwing Handbills, Advertisements
4-2-9: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
4-2-10: Abatement By Suit In District Court
4-2-11: Procedure Cumulative
4-2-12: Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCE DEFINED, GENERALLY:
   A.   Nuisance: A "nuisance" is unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or is any thing or condition, which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street, or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   B.   Public Nuisance: A "public nuisance" is one which affects at the same
time an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
   C.   Private Nuisance: Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this
section is a private nuisance. (1980 Code § 13-1)
4-2-2: RESPONSIBILITY; NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Persons Responsible: Every successive owner of property who neglects to
abate a continuing nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a
former owner, is liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first
created it. (1980 Code § 13-2)
   B.   Nuisance Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person (owner, lessee, or
other) to create or maintain a nuisance within the city, or to permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the city. (1980 Code §
13-10)
4-2-3: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1980 Code § 13-3)
4-2-4: REMEDIES:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court.
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court.
      3.   Civil action.
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12.
         b.   By the city, in accordance with law or ordinance. (1980 Code §
13-4)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action.
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections
14 and 15.
         b.   By the city, in accordance with law or ordinance. (1980 Code §
13-5)
4-2-5: POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city has power to determine
what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and,
for the protection of the public health, the public parks, and the public water
supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the
city has power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner
and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be done. (1980 Code § 13-6)
4-2-6: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: In addition to other public nuisances declared by
other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food: The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome
food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are
made.
      2.   Liquor: The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of intoxicating
liquor in violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or the keeping
of a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or furnished in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the city.
      3.   Obscene Literature: The exposure, display, sale, or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects;
or the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold, or
distributed.
      4.   Gambling: The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by
cards, slot machines, punchboards, or otherwise.
      5.   House Of Prostitution: The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   Place Where Unlawful Activities Occur: The keeping of a place where
activities in violation of state law or ordinance are practiced or carried on.
      7.   Illegal Dances: The conduct or holding of public dances in violation
of the ordinances of the city; or the keeping of a place where such dances are
held.
      8.   Exposing Person With Contagious Disease: The public exposure of a
person having a contagious disease.
      9.   Loud Noises By Persons Or Animals: The continued making of loud or
unusual noises which annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of
an animal which makes such noise 1 .
      10.   Interference With Radio Or Television Reception: The operation or
use of any electrical apparatus or machine which materially and unduly
interferes with radio or television reception by others.
      11.   Crowds Obstructing Traffic: Any use of a street or sidewalk or a
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinances.
      12.   Liquid Or Snow Falling From Building: Permitting water or other
liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or structure
upon any street or sidewalk.
      13.   Stagnant Water: All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies, or containers
of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so
constructed, formed, conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      14.   Weeds And Refuse: Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of
manure, refuse, or other things, which are, or are likely to be, breeding
places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the premises on
which such exist.
      15.   Dangerous Building: Any building or structure which is dangerous to
the public health or safety because of damage, decay, or other condition, or
which is unsightly 2 .
      16.   Dangerous Pit Or Hole: Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      17.   Fire Hazard: Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the
public safety.
      18.   Activities Endangering Public Health: Any occupation or activity
which endangers the public peace, health, morals, safety, or welfare. (1980
Code § 13-7)
      19.   Junked Vehicles 3 :
         a.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to park,
store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any motor vehicle
of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled condition whether
attended or not, unregistered, uninspected, upon any public or private property
within the city, for a period of time in excess of seventy two (72) hours.
         b.   The presence of an abandoned, unregistered, uninspected, wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle or
parts thereof, on private or public property, is hereby declared a public
nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
         c.   This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed within a
building on private property or to any vehicle held in connection with a lawful
business enterprise, and property operated in the appropriate zone, pursuant to
the zoning laws of the city, or to any motor vehicle in operable condition
specifically adopted or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways, or
any vehicle retained by the owner for antique collection purposes, in a storage
place maintained in a lawful place and manner. (Ord. 217, 11-2-1999)
   B.   Provisions Cumulative: The above enumeration of certain public
nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms. (1980 Code § 13-7)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-4-18 of this code.
2 1. See also chapter 3 of this title.
3 2. See also chapter 5 of this title.
4-2-7: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice To Abate:
      1.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
1011, the health officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of
any private premises in the city to remove from such premises, at his own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable, and a
failure to do so shall constitute an offense. (1980 Code § 13-21; amd. 2002
Code)
      2.   Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health
officer or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual
place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if known and within the state.
      3.   If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of the owner,
occupant, or agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served
by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least one
issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the city.
   B.   Abatement By City; Assessment Of Costs:
      1.   If the order is not complied with, the health officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the city clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other city utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he is a user of water from the city water system or such other utility service.
      2.   The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it
is added, and shall become due and payable, and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment, as the utility bill itself.
      3.   If such owner or occupant is not a user of any city utility service,
such cost, after certification to the city clerk, may be collected in any
manner in which any other debt due the city may be collected. (1980 Code § 13-
21)
4-2-8: THROWING HANDBILLS, ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Loose paper lying on the streets, alleys, vacant
lots or other premises increases the fire risk and is against the public health
and safety and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The owner or
occupant of the premises where such nuisance exists shall severally be guilty
of an offense. Provided, that each day said nuisance exists after the first
conviction shall constitute a separate offense against said defendants.
   B.   Aiding Or Abetting: An aider or abetter within the meaning of this
section is a person or persons who do or cause another:
      1.   To throw, place, drop or leave any handbills or advertising matter,
circulars, or other paper material exclusively intended for advertising
purposes on any street, alley, vacant lot or other premises within the city.
      2.   To deliver any circulars, handbills or advertising matter to persons
on the streets or alleys or to throw the same in cars or other vehicles on the
streets or alleys in the city.
      3.   To tack or nail circulars, handbills or advertising matter in
quantities of any size for the purpose of being pulled off by the public, on
any exterior walls, fences, trees, poles or other outside fixtures.
   C.   Violation; Remedies: All persons who aid or abet in the creation or the
continuation of a nuisance declared by this section shall severally be guilty
of an offense. Provided, the enumeration of unlawful acts which aid or abet any
nuisance as herein set forth shall not be construed to exclude any other acts
which aid or abet such nuisance. Provided, also, that the liabilities arising
under this section shall be in addition to any other civil liability imposed by
law and cumulative of any other remedies. (1980 Code § 13-22)
4-2-9: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Immediate Action By City: Some nuisances are of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals,
or welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized
that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the city
manager or other appropriate officer or agency of the city government to take
immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or
suspend the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such
abatement.
   B.   Statement Presented To Commission: The chief of the fire department,
the chief of police, the city attorney, the building inspector, the electrical
inspector, the plumbing inspector, or any other officer subordinate to the city
manager, may submit, through or with the consent of the city manager to the
city commission a statement as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by the
ordinances of the city or law, and a request or recommendation that it be
abated. The city manager himself, the health officer, any commissioner, or any
resident or residents of the city may submit such a statement and request or
recommendation to the city commission.
   C.   Commission Determination; Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   The commission shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance
is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject,
the commission shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books,
papers, and other effects.
      2.   Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, the
commission shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the
owner of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed
responsible for or to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to
be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such
notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing, by
mail, or by service by a police officer, if their names and addresses are
known; but, if the names and addresses are not known, and the peace, health,
safety, morals, or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely
affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of
the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
   D.   Order Abatement By Owner; Subsequent Abatement By City; Costs Assessed:
      1.   If the commission finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay.
      2.   If such peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of the person
would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other
persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the
specified time, the commission shall direct the city manager to abate the
nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized
by 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16.
      3.   The city clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known.
      4.   Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city
collectible as other debts of the city may be collected. (1980 Code § 13-8)
4-2-10: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county, as provided in 50 Oklahoma
Statutes section 17. (1980 Code § 13-9; amd. 2001 Code)
4-2-11: PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other, and
the city may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating
any particular nuisance. (1980 Code § 13-23)
4-2-12: PENALTY:
Any person or entity who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any
act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance
or an offense thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, or who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure
to be unlawful or be an offense, or who violates any legal order or regulation
made pursuant to this chapter, or who maintains any "nuisance" as defined in
this chapter, is guilty of an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-10-16 of this code. Each additional day upon which such violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense punishable by a fine of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day thereafter, plus costs. (Ord. 219, 11-2-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS AND TRASH; DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Legislative Intent
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Accumulations Of Weeds, Trash Unlawful
4-3-4: Report Accumulations To City Manager
4-3-5: Abatement Procedure
4-3-6: Subsequent Accumulations; Summary Abatement
4-3-7: Nonliability Of City
4-3-8: Dilapidated Buildings
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-2-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
4-3-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
It is hereby declared the legislative intent of the city commission to conform
to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 22-111 and 22-112, as
amended, and hereby to repeal any and all ordinances of the city in conflict
therewith. (1980 Code § 13-11)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded, or abandoned.
WEED:
   A.   The term includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or
poison sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to the traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulations of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (1980 Code § 13-16)
4-3-3: ACCUMULATIONS OF WEEDS, TRASH UNLAWFUL:
All owners of property or persons otherwise in possession or control of
property located within the city limits are prohibited from allowing trash to
accumulate, or weeds to grow or stand on the premises, and each day of
violation of this provision shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. (1980 Code § 13-12)
4-3-4: REPORT ACCUMULATIONS TO CITY MANAGER:
Any officer or employee of the city who discovers an accumulation of trash or
the growth of grass and weeds, or both of these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the city by reason of which such premises appear to him to
be:
   A.   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   B.   A hazard to traffic;
   C.   A fire hazard to the danger of persons or property; or
   D.   Any combination of the above;
shall report such condition to the city manager. (1980 Code § 13-13)
4-3-5: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
The city commission may cause any such property within the city limits to be
cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the
following procedures:
   A.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office before the city commission holds a hearing or takes
action.
      2.   The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate, and
the notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within ten
(10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the city and a
notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the city.
      3.   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the city
shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
      4.   However, if the property owner cannot be located within ten (10)
days from the date of mailing by the municipal governing body, notice may be
given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication as
defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, as amended, one time not less
than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the city.
      5.   If the city commission anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance
in accordance with the provisions of section
4-3-6 of this chapter, the notice, whether by mail, posting or publication
shall state: a) that any accumulation of trash or excessive weed or grass
growth on the owners property occurring within six (6) months after the removal
of trash or cutting or mowing of weeds or grass on the property pursuant to
such notice may be summarily abated by the city commission; b) that the costs
of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and c) that a lien may
be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without any further or
prior notice to the property owner.
   B.   Consent Of Owner For City Removal: The owner of the property may give
his written consent to the city authorizing the removal of the trash or the
mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving such written consent, the owner waives
his right to a hearing by the city.
   C.   Hearing To Determine Health Hazard: A hearing may be held by the city
commission to determine whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of
weeds or grass has caused the property to become detrimental to the health,
benefit, and welfare of the public and the community or a hazard to traffic, or
creates a fire hazard to the danger of persons or property.
   D.   Abatement By City; Lien Claim:
      1.   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefited by the removal of
such condition, the agents of the city are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and performance of
the necessary duties as a governmental function of the city.
      2.   Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the
city clerk shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk describing the
property and the work performed by the city and stating that the city claims a
lien on the property for the cleaning or mowing costs.
   E.   Issue Statement Of Costs:
      1.   The city commission shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning
and mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing.
      2.   The city clerk shall forward by mail to the property owner specified
in subsection A of this section a statement of such actual cost and demanding
payment.
      3.   If the cleaning and mowing are done by the city, the cost to the
property owner for the cleaning and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance and equipment required.
      4.   If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder. (1980 Code § 13-14)
   F.   Lien Against Property:
      1.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the county treasurer, and the same shall be levied on
the property and collected by the county treasurer as other taxes authorized by
law. (1980 Code § 13-14; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date that the cost
is certified to the county treasurer.
      3.   In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the cost is certified to the county
treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all titles and liens against the
property, and the lien shall continue until the costs shall be fully paid.
      4.   At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall collect a fee
of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property which shall be deposited to
the credit of the general fund of the county.
      5.   At any time prior to the collection as provided in this subsection,
the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and
interest thereon, including an action in personam against the property owner
and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property.
      6.   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this chapter.
      7.   Upon receiving payment, if any, the city clerk shall forward to the
county treasurer a notice of such payment, and, if the obligation is paid in
full, the city clerk shall direct the discharge of the lien.
   G.   Administrative Officer: The city commission hereby designates the city
manager as administrative officer to carry out the duties of the city
commission as set out in this chapter.
   H.   Right To Appeal:
      1.   The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the city
commission from any order of the administrative officer.
      2.   Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with
the city clerk within ten (10) days after any such administrative order is
rendered. (1980 Code § 13-14)
4-3-6: SUBSEQUENT ACCUMULATIONS; SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
   A.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement Without Notice: If the city commission
causes property within the city limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or
grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided for in
section
4-3-5 of this chapter, any subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed
or grass growth on the property occurring within a six (6) month period may be
declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without any further or
prior notice to the property owner.
   B.   Notice Of Abatement And Costs; Hearing: At the time of each such
summary abatement, the city shall notify the property owner of the abatement
and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may
request a hearing within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the notice.
The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in subsections
4-3-5A and C of this chapter.
   C.   Cost Determination And Collection: Unless otherwise determined at the
hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be determined and collected as
provided for in subsections
4-3-5E and F of this chapter.
   D.   Exception: Provided however, that this section shall not apply if the
records of the county clerk show that the property was transferred after notice
was given pursuant to subsection
4-3-5A of this chapter. (1980 Code § 13-15)
4-3-7: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
   A.   Nonliability: The officers, employees or agents of the city shall not
be liable for any damages to or loss of property due to the removal of trash or
the mowing and removal of weeds and grass under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Exception: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes. (1980 Code § 13-17)
4-3-8: DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Tearing Down And Removal; Abatement Procedure: The city commission is
hereby authorized to cause dilapidated buildings within the city limits to be
torn down and removed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this subsection A, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:
    DILAPIDATED BUILDING: A structure which through neglect or injury lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of
the general public.
   OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
county treasurer.
      2.   Notice:
         a.   At least ten (10) days' notice that a building is to be torn down
or removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the city
commission holds a hearing.
         b.   A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be
affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the
property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
office of the county treasurer.
         c.   Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as
shown by the records in the office of the county clerk to the last known
address of the mortgagee.
         d.   At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee.
         e.   However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property,
or by publication as defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, as amended.
         f.   Such notice may be published once not less than ten (10) days
prior to any hearing or action by the city pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
      3.   Hearing: A hearing shall be held by the city commission to determine
if the property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health,
safety, or welfare of the general public and the community, or if the property
creates a fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
      4.   Order Building Torn Down; File Lien Claim:
         a.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefited by
the removal of such conditions, the city commission may cause the dilapidated
building to be torn down and removed.
         b.   The city commission shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work.
         c.   The city clerk shall immediately file a notice of dilapidation
and lien with the county clerk describing the property, the findings of the
city commission at the hearing, and stating that the city claims a lien on the
property for the destruction and removal costs, and that such costs are the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of the filing
of the notice.
         d.   The agents of the city are granted the right of entry on the
property for the performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function
of the city, if the work is not performed by the property owner within dates
fixed by the city commission.
      5.   Costs Determined; Statement To Owner:
         a.   The city commission shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing.
         b.   The city clerk shall forward a statement of the actual cost
attributable to the dismantling and removal of the buildings and a demand for
payment of such costs by mail to the property owner. In addition, a copy of the
statement shall be mailed to any mortgage holder at the address provided for in
subsection A2c of this section. At the time of mailing of the statement of
costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt
of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
         c.   If the city dismantles or removes any dilapidated buildings, the
cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance and equipment required for the dismantling and removal of the
dilapidated buildings.
         d.   If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings is done
on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and
best bidder.
      6.   Collection Of Unpaid Costs By County Treasurer:
         a.   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city
clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual
cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six (6)
months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of the
property, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the cost to the county treasurer of the appropriate county.
         b.   The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the
county treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the
costs and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property
owner from and after the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed
with the county clerk.
         c.   In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
county clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
cost is fully paid.
         d.   At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall collect a
fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property and the fee shall be
deposited to the credit of the general fund of the county.
         e.   At any time prior to the collection as provided in this
subsection, the city may pursue any civil remedy for the collection of the
amount owing and interest thereon, including an action in personam against the
property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property.
         f.   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section.
         g.   Upon receiving payment in full of the above costs, the city clerk
shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct
discharge of the lien.
      7.   Administrative Officer: The city commission hereby designates the
city manager as administrative officer to carry out the duties of the city
commission as set out in this chapter.
      8.   Right To Appeal:
         a.   The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the city
commission from any order of the administrative officer.
         b.   Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal
with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is
rendered.
      9.   Abatement As Nuisance: Nothing in the provisions of this section
shall prevent the city from abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or
otherwise exercising its police power to protect the health, safety, or welfare
of the general public.
      10.   Nonliability Of City: The officers, employees or agents of the city
shall not be liable for any damages to, or loss of property due to the removal
of dilapidated buildings performed pursuant to the provisions of this section
or as otherwise prescribed by law.
      11.   Exception: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes. (1980 Code § 13-18)
   B.   Boarding And Securing Of Dilapidated Buildings:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this subsection B, the following
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    BOARDING AND SECURING OR BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
   UNSECURED BUILDING: Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or
equitable owner thereof, or a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and into
which there are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked
windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the
roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
      2.   Authority To Board And Secure: After a building has been declared
dilapidated as provided in subsection A of this section, and before the
commencement of the tearing down and removal of a dilapidated building, the
city commission may authorize that such building be boarded and secured, and
the city commission may also cause the premises on which an unsecured building
is located to be cleaned of trash and weeds in accordance with the provisions
of section
4-3-5 of this chapter.
      3.   Procedure For Boarding And Securing: The city commission is
authorized to cause an "unsecured building", as hereinbefore defined, to be
boarded and secured in accordance with the following procedures:
         a.   Notice Of Violation:
            (1)   Before the city commission orders such action, at least ten
(10) days' notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured
shall be given by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders, as provided
in subsection A of this section.
            (2)   At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee.
            (3)   A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the property to
be affected.
            (4)   However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage holder
can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
property or by publication as defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, as
amended. Such notice shall be published one time, not less than ten (10) days
prior to any hearing or action by the city pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
            (5)   If the city commission anticipates summary abatement of a
nuisance in accordance with the provisions of subsection B3l of this section,
the notice shall state: that any subsequent need for boarding and securing the
building within a six (6) month period after the initial boarding and securing
of the building pursuant to such notice may be summarily boarded and secured by
the city commission; that the costs of such boarding and securing shall be
assessed against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the property to
secure such payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner or
mortgage holder.
         b.   Consent Of Owner:
            (1)   The owner of the property may give his written consent to the
city authorizing the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and to
the payment of any costs incurred thereby.
            (2)   By giving the written consent, the owner waives his right to
a hearing by the city commission.
         c.   Hearing:
            (1)   If the property owner does not give his written consent to
such actions, a hearing may be held by the city commission to determine whether
the boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and benefit
the public health, safety or welfare. Such hearing may be held in conjunction
with a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass on
the premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to the provisions of
subsection
4-3-5C of this chapter.
            (2)   In making such determination, the city commission shall apply
the following standard: the city commission may order the boarding and securing
of the unsecured building when the boarding and securing thereof would make
such building less available for transient occupation, decrease a fire hazard
created by such building, or decrease the hazard that such building would
constitute an attractive nuisance to children.
         d.   Order Issued By City: Upon making the required determination, the
city commission may order the boarding and securing of the unsecured building.
         e.   Notify County: After the city commission orders the boarding and
securing of such unsecured building, the city clerk shall immediately file a
notice of unsecured building and lien with the county clerk describing the
property, stating the findings of the city commission at the hearing at which
such building was determined to be unsecured and stating that the city claims a
lien on the property for the costs of boarding and securing such building and
that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and
after the date of the filing of the notice.
         f.   Right Of Entry: Pursuant to the order of the city commission, the
agents or employees of the city are granted the right of entry on the property
for the performance of the boarding and securing of such building and for the
performance of all necessary duties as a governmental function of the city.
         g.   Determine Costs; Issue Statement To Owner:
            (1)   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the
city commission shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any other
expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the costs of
the notice and mailing.
            (2)   The city clerk shall forward a statement of the actual costs
attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured building and a
demand for payment of such costs by mail to any property owners and mortgage
holders, as provided in subsection
4-3-5E of this chapter.
            (3)   At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any
property owner or mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing
from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and
the name and address of the mailee.
         h.   Limitation On Cost; Private Contract:
            (1)   If the city boards and secures any unsecured building, the
cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor,
materials and equipment required for the performance of such actions.
            (2)   If such actions are done on a private contract basis, the
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
         i.   Collection Of Costs By County Treasurer:
            (1)   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city
clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual
costs of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made within
thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of
such property, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the county treasurer.
            (2)   The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by
the county treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law.
            (3)   Until fully paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall be
the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the
notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with the county clerk.
            (4)   In addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with
the county clerk.
            (5)   The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and supervisor
to all other titles and liens against the property. The liens shall continue
until the costs and interest are fully paid.
            (6)   At any time prior to collection as provided for in this
subsection, the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount
owing and interest thereon including an action in personam against the property
owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property.
            (7)   A mineral interest if severed from the surface owner shall
not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section.
            (8)   Upon receiving payment, the city clerk shall forward to the
county treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the
lien.
         j.   Administrative Officer: The city manager is hereby designated as
administrative officer to carry out the duties of the city commission specified
in this section.
         k.   Appeal:
            (1)   The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a right of
appeal to the city commission from any order of the administrative officer.
            (2)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal
with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is
rendered.
         l.   Subsequent Violation; Summary Abatement:
            (1)   If the city commission causes a structure within the city
limits to be boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing
within a six (6) month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be
summarily boarded and secured without further prior notice to the property
owner or mortgage holder.
            (2)   At the time of each such summary boarding and securing, the
city shall notify the property owner and mortgage holder of the boarding and
securing and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner
may request an appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the
mailing of the notice.
            (3)   The notice and hearing shall be as provided in section
4-3-6 of this chapter. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of
such boarding and securing shall be determined and collected as provided for in
subsections B3g, B3h and B3i of this section.
         m.   City Authority: The city commission may determine that a building
is unsecured and order that such building be boarded and secured in the manner
provided for in this subsection B even though such building has not been
declared by the city commission to be dilapidated.
         n.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes. (1980 Code § 13-19)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Garbage Removal By City Or By Contract
4-4-3: Contract For Hauling Garbage; Bond
4-4-4: Service Charge For Garbage Collection And Insect Control
4-4-5: Payment Of Bills; Delinquency
4-4-6: Garbage Accumulations; Nuisance
4-4-7: Container Requirements
4-4-8: Preparation Of Bulk Refuse, Tree Limbs
4-4-9: Vehicles Hauling Garbage
4-4-10: Incinerator Prohibited In Building
4-4-11: Refuse Grinders Prohibited In Commercial Establishments
4-4-12: Trash Burning
4-4-13: Keeping Premises Clean
4-4-14: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
GARBAGE: Every accumulation of animal or vegetable matter, or both; that is,
the refuse matter from kitchens, pantries, dining rooms, or other parts of
dwelling houses, hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, tenement houses, market
houses, public institutions, private hospitals, and all animal refuse or matter
from butcher shops, grocery stores and all other places.
REFUSE AND RUBBISH: Ashes, cinders, paper, broken ware, discarded shoes, tin
cans and all other such refuse and matter as may be termed the natural
accumulation of resident families.
TRASH: Any accumulation of broken or discarded boxes, glass, metal vessels or
containers, straw, sawdust, iron or other metal, clothing, trimmings from
trees, shrubs, grass or gardens, and such other similar waste matter usually
discarded by occupants of dwellings or living quarters, and by business
establishments. (1980 Code § 9-2)
4-4-2: GARBAGE REMOVAL BY CITY OR BY CONTRACT:
   A.   City Authority: The city hereby reserves to itself the exclusive right
and privilege of the collection, removal and disposition of all garbage, refuse
and trash within the limits of the city, either by contracting with a suitable
person or firm for the collection and removal thereof, or by the collection and
removal thereof by employees of the city, either method to be at the discretion
of the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 9-1)
   B.   Removal By Proper Persons: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, except the duly appointed and authorized employees of the city, or
others under contract and bond to the city, as hereinafter provided, to remove
or cause to be removed any garbage, waste, refuse, rubbish or trash of any kind
from any garbage can or other container used for the deposit of same within the
city, or to transport, haul or carry through or over any of the streets, alleys
or other public places of the city, any such garbage, waste, refuse, rubbish or
trash. (1980 Code § 9-9)
4-4-3: CONTRACT FOR HAULING GARBAGE; BOND:
   A.   Conditions; Bond Requirement: The city commission may contract with
some suitable person, firm or corporation for the removal of any garbage,
waste, refuse, rubbish or trash on such terms and conditions as it deems to the
best interests of the city, which shall include the requirement of a bond in a
sum sufficient to ensure faithful performance of the contract entered into, and
which shall also include a further bond sufficient so that the city will be
saved harmless against any liability imposed by law against the city on the
part of the principal obligor as the result of any negligence causing damage to
any person or property on the part of the principal obligor. Both bonds shall
be corporate surety bonds. Both of the bonds shall be approved by the city
clerk.
   B.   Right To Reject Bids For Contract: The city commission shall have the
right to reject any and all bids for such contract submitted, and shall have
the right to have all such garbage, waste, refuse, rubbish and trash removed by
city employees at its discretion. (1980 Code § 9-10)
4-4-4: SERVICE CHARGE FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION AND INSECT CONTROL:
   A.   Authority To Impose Charges: For the purpose of defraying the expenses
of the collection and removal of garbage, refuse and trash, as provided herein,
monthly charges are authorized and directed to be collected from the owner or
occupant of the premises covered by the terms of this chapter; the same being
set by motion or resolution of the board of commissioners.
   B.   Free Spraying Service For Insect Control: The monthly charges provided
shall include any spraying service performed and operated by the city for the
control of flies and other insects during the summer months, and there shall be
no additional charge for such service. (1980 Code § 9-12)
4-4-5: PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Charges Included With Water Billing: The monthly charges herein
provided for shall be included in the bill rendered monthly to each user of
city water, and it is the duty of each person, firm, corporation, institution
or establishment to pay the charges provided for the payment of water bills.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Service For Nonpayment: If such charges are not so
paid, such service shall be discontinued along with the water service and at
the same time. (1980 Code § 9-13)
4-4-6: GARBAGE ACCUMULATIONS; NUISANCE:
   A.   Accumulations Prohibited: It is unlawful for the owner, occupant or
other person in charge of any lot or piece of ground to allow refuse, rubbish,
garbage or trash to accumulate thereon, or to permit water or putrid
substances, whether animal or vegetable, to accumulate thereon so as to cause
an offensive odor to be emitted therefrom, or to become injurious or dangerous
to the health of the neighborhood, or any inhabitant thereof.
   B.   Violation Declared Nuisance: Any such condition is hereby declared a
violation of this chapter and punishable as such, and in addition, is declared
to be a nuisance and may be abated as such. (1980 Code § 9-3)
4-4-7: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Container Specifications; Placement:
      1.   It is the duty of all owners, occupants, or other persons in charge
of any premises within the city to place all garbage in watertight, metallic
cans; provided, however, that the city manager, after consultation with and
approval of the commission, may authorize containers of different materials
other than metal.
      2.   Garbage cans must be of sufficient size to hold not less than five
(5) nor more than thirty (30) gallons, and have close fitting covers and
handles on the sides.
      3.   The cans shall be placed on the alley or some convenient place on
the lot or premises for access to the same. The owner, occupant or other person
in charge shall place all garbage, refuse and trash in cans placed on the alley
or other convenient place on the premises, so that the same may be removed, at
stipulated times, from the premises, as convenient and necessary and as
hereinafter provided.
      4.   It is permissible to place bottles and other containers in the
garbage can. (1980 Code § 9-4)
   B.   Use Of Containers: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to deposit for collection, or any other purpose, on any street, alley or
parking of the city, or on any private property, any garbage, refuse or trash
without placing the same in an enclosed receptacle or container. (1980 Code §
9-5)
   C.   Tampering With Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person, not
duly authorized as provided herein, to tamper with, overturn, damage, remove or
destroy any garbage or trash container of a resident, business, or other
establishment in the city. (1980 Code § 9-6)
   D.   Nonconforming Or Faulty Container: All garbage, refuse, and trash
containers shall be maintained in good condition. Any container that does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter, or that may have ragged or sharp
edges, or any other defect liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the
contents thereof, must be promptly replaced by a proper container upon receipt
of notice to that effect from the city, and if not so replaced within ten (10)
days after the receipt of notice, the nonconforming or defective container may
be collected and disposed of by the sanitation department of the city as
refuse. (1980 Code § 9-8)
4-4-8: PREPARATION OF BULK REFUSE, TREE LIMBS:
   A.   Bulk Refuse: All bulk refuse and trash accumulated in residential,
commercial or manufacturing buildings, including, but not limited to, cardboard
containers, wooden crates, hedge and tree trimmings, tree limbs and similar
refuse and trash, shall be limited in length to four foot (4') bundles,
whenever possible, and put in such condition that it may be readily handled by
one collector.
   B.   Tree Limbs: Tree trimmings and limbs must be put in such condition that
they may easily be loaded and hauled. (1980 Code § 9-7; amd. 2002 Code)
4-4-9: VEHICLES HAULING GARBAGE:
   A.   Prevention From Leaking: All vehicles used in the removal, collection
or transportation of refuse, rubbish, garbage, trash or waste of any kind shall
be constructed in such manner as will prevent any portion of such material from
leaking, spilling, blowing out of, or falling from the vehicle, or onto any
public highway, street, avenue or alley, or other public or private place.
   B.   Cover Required: All vehicles used in the transportation, collection and
removal of garbage shall at all times, except when being loaded or unloaded, be
kept completely and securely covered, so that no part of the contents thereof
shall at any time be exposed to view.
   C.   Loading To Prevent Contents From Spilling: Such vehicle shall not be
loaded above a point that will not permit its being drawn or driven over the
public highway, street, avenue or alley, without any portion of the contents
being spilled or falling therefrom.
   D.   Sanitary Condition; Name On Vehicle: All such vehicles shall be kept in
a clean and sanitary condition, and, if a privately owned vehicle not owned by
the city, shall have upon them in figures and letters at least three inches
(3") in height, the name of the owner or operator and the number given said
vehicle.
   E.   Inspection; Correction Of Violation:
      1.   Inspection; Prevent Use: All such vehicles shall, at all times, be
subject to inspection by the proper officials of the city; and if, in the
judgment of said officials, at any time the same is defective or unfit for use,
the city manager is hereby empowered to prevent the use of the same until in
proper condition to comply with the terms of this section.
      2.   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by such action on the part of the city
manager shall have a right to appeal to the city commission, which shall hear
the same at its next regular meeting, or other time as ordered by it, and its
decision thereon shall be final. (1980 Code § 9-11)
4-4-10: INCINERATOR PROHIBITED IN BUILDING:
It is unlawful to construct or install within any building in the city any
incinerator designed to burn trash, garbage or other refuse. (1980 Code § 9-14)
4-4-11: REFUSE GRINDERS PROHIBITED IN COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
It is unlawful to construct or install within any retail store or other
commercial establishment within the city any mechanical or power driven device
or machine for the grinding of trash, garbage, or other refuse, and designed to
introduce into the sewer system of the city such garbage, trash or other
refuse. (1980 Code § 9-15)
4-4-12: TRASH BURNING:
   A.   Unlawful Burning: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to
burn trash, lumber, leaves, straw, grass or any other combustible material
within the city of Drumright, except by special permission of the fire chief,
when such burning shall be done under such safeguards as he may direct.
   B.   Penalty: Penalty for violation of this section shall be punished by a
fine not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), excluding costs, for each day defendant violates this
section. (Ord. 294, 11-13-2012)
4-4-13: KEEPING PREMISES CLEAN:
All persons, firms or corporations owning or occupying lots or buildings within
the corporate limits of the city shall keep said premises free and clean of
weeds, rubbish, trash, and waste of every kind at all times. (1980 Code § 9-18)
4-4-14: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates or causes, orders, directs, aids,
advises, assists in any manner or abets the violation of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of an offense, and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Failure to comply with the provisions hereof shall be
deemed a continuing offense and each day's continuance of failure to comply
herewith shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. (1980 Code § 9-19;
amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, WRECKED AUTOS 1
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Nuisance Declared; Exception
4-5-3: Notice Of Violation; Removal Required
4-5-4: Hearing
4-5-5: Removal Of Vehicle From Property
4-5-6: Notice Of Removal
4-5-7: Appraisal
4-5-8: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles
4-5-9: Liability Of Owner Or Occupant
4-5-10: Certification To County Treasurer
4-5-11: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-2-6A19 of this title.
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES: Any "motor vehicle", as defined herein, which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self propelled and designated to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobile, buses,
motor bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go carts, and golf
carts.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the city, which is not "public
property" as defined herein.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to the public use and over
which the federal, state, or municipal governments or any political subdivision
thereof exercises control and dominion. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Leaving Vehicle; Time Limit: It shall be unlawful and an offense for
any person to park, store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of
any motor vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled
condition whether attended or not, unregistered, uninspected, upon any public
or private property within the city, for a period of time in excess of seventy
two (72) hours.
   B.   Nuisance Defined And Declared: The presence of an abandoned,
unregistered, uninspected, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or
partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof, on private or public property is
hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed within
a building on private property or to any vehicle held in connection with a
lawful business enterprise, and properly operated in the appropriate zone,
pursuant to the zoning laws of the city, or to any motor vehicle in operable
condition specifically adopted or designed for operation on drag strips or
raceways or any vehicle retained by the owner for antique collection purposes
in a storage place maintained in a lawful place and manner. (Ord. 223, 1-6-
2000)
4-5-3: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REMOVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Notice To Remove: Whenever it comes to the attention of the city
manager or his designee that any nuisance, as defined in subsection
4-5-2B of this chapter, exists in the city, a notice in writing shall be served
upon that occupant, then upon the owner of the property or his agent, notifying
them of the existence of the nuisance and requesting its removal in the time
specified in this chapter.
   B.   Responsibility For Removal:
      1.   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicle and the owner or
occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either or all of
them, shall be responsible for its removal.
      2.   In the event of removal and disposition by the city or its designee,
the owner, or occupant of the private property where same is located shall be
liable for the expenses incurred.
   C.   Notice Procedure: The city manager or his designee shall give notice of
removal to the owner or the occupant of the private property where it is
located, at least ten (10) days before the time of compliance. It shall
constitute sufficient notice when a copy of the same is posted in a conspicuous
place upon the private property upon which the vehicle is located and duplicate
copies are sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner or
occupant of the private property at his last known address.
   D.   Content Of Notice: The notice shall contain the request for removal
within the time specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that
upon failure to comply with the notice to remove, the city shall prosecute a
criminal complaint for failure to abate the nuisance or shall undertake such
removal with the cost to be levied against the owner or occupant of the
property. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-4: HEARING:
   A.   Request For Hearing: Persons to whom the notices are directed, or their
duly authorized agent, may file a written request for hearing before an
abandoned vehicle commission within the ten (10) day period of compliance for
the purpose of defending the charges by the city. This commission shall be
comprised of three (3) members, the city manager or his designee, the chief of
police or his designee, and the city attorney or his designee.
   B.   Procedure For Hearing: The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable
after the filing of the request and the person to whom the notices are directed
shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. At any such hearing, the
city and the person to whom the notices have been directed may introduce such
witnesses and evidence as either party deems necessary. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-5: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FROM PROPERTY:
   A.   Failure To Abate: If the violation described in the notice has not been
remedied within the ten (10) day period of compliance, or in the event that a
notice requesting a hearing is timely filed, a hearing had, and the existence
of the violation is affirmed by the abandoned vehicle commission, the city
manager or his designee shall continue to prosecute criminal charges on a daily
basis for failure to abate the nuisance or shall have the right to take
possession of the junked motor vehicle and remove it from the premises.
   B.   Interference With Persons Removing Vehicle: It shall be unlawful for
any person to interfere, hinder, or refuse to allow such person or persons to
enter upon private property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under this
chapter. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-6: NOTICE OF REMOVAL:
Within forty eight (48) hours of the removal of such vehicle, the city manager
or his designee shall give notice to the registered owner of the vehicle, if
known, and also to the owner or occupant of the private property from which the
vehicle was removed, that the vehicle, or vehicles, has been impounded and
stored for violation of this chapter. Notice shall give the location where the
vehicle, or vehicles, is stored and the proper procedure for redeeming the
vehicle, including costs of redemption. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-7: APPRAISAL:
Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, the city shall,
after ten (10) days, cause it to be appraised. If the vehicle is appraised at
seventy five dollars ($75.00) or less, the city manager or his designee shall
execute an affidavit so attesting and describing the vehicle, including the
license plates, if any, and stating the location and appraised value of the
vehicle. After complying with the above, the city may summarily dispose of the
vehicle and execute a certificate of sale. If the vehicle is appraised at over
seventy five dollars ($75.00), notice of a public sale shall be given no less
than ten (10) days before the date of the proposed sale. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-8: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to the date or destruction
thereof upon proof of ownership and payment to the city clerk or his designee
of such sum as may be determined and fixed as the actual and reasonable expense
of removal plus storage. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-9: LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT:
Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property on which abandoned
vehicles have been removed by the city to pay the unrecovered expense incurred
by the city in such removal, the amount of the unrecovered cost may be added to
the municipal utility bills of the private property from which the vehicle was
removed and recovered in the same manner as such bills. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-10: CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY TREASURER:
If the private property is not served by municipal utilities or if collection
efforts are not successful, the costs may be certified by the city clerk to the
county treasurer of the county in which the property is located who shall add
the same to the ad valorem taxes assessed against the property, until paid, and
shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes assessed against the
property, and when collected shall be paid to the city. (Ord. 223, 1-6-2000)
4-5-11: PENALTY:
In addition to the procedures for removal of vehicles, any person, firm,
association, corporation or copartnership who shall violate any of the
provisions hereof shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
4-2-12 of this title. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense and may be chargeable as such. (Ord. 223, 1-
6-2000)
CHAPTER 6
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-6-1: Depositing Ashes
4-6-2: Storing Combustibles
4-6-3: Oily Waste
4-6-4: Burning Trash
4-6-5: Fireworks
4-6-6: Penalty
4-6-7: Open Flame Devices
4-6-8: Knox Box
4-6-1: DEPOSITING ASHES:
No person shall be allowed to place ashes in any trash container or paper sack
within or outside any building, in any box, or other wooden container or upon
any wooden container or floor. The placing of ashes in such places or in such
manner shall be an offense. This applies to trash and garbage to be picked up
by the City as well. (1980 Code § 8-23)
4-6-2: STORING COMBUSTIBLES:
It shall be an offense for any person, being the occupant, owner, or lessee of
any dwelling house, storehouse, warehouse or cellar located within the
corporate limits of the City, to keep or permit to be kept therein any straw,
hay or shavings or other combustible material other than is actually necessary
for the operation of his or their business. (1980 Code § 8-24)
4-6-3: OILY WASTE:
No person shall keep or permit to be kept on the premises any oily waste or
oily rags unless at all times when not actually in use such oily waste and oily
rags be kept in a metal can with self-closing cover and riveted joints,
standing on metal legs which raise the bottom of the container at least five
inches (5") above the floor. (1980 Code § 8-25)
4-6-4: BURNING TRASH:
See section
4-4-12 of this title. (Ord. 294, 11-13-2012)
4-6-5: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful to manufacture, sell, furnish, possess,
display, or use any fireworks within the City unless the appropriate fireworks
permit is obtained.
   B.   Regulations:
      1.   Location: It shall be unlawful to explode or ignite fireworks within
five hundred feet (500') of any church, hospital, asylum, public school,
unharvested agricultural crop, or where fireworks are stored or sold. In
addition, fireworks may not be lit in or thrown from motor vehicles or thrown
at/near a group of people.
      2.   Use: The use of Class 1.4G fireworks by individuals shall be
permitted only under permit as described in this subsection B and subsection C
of this section.
      3.   Definitions:
    CLASS 1.3G DISPLAY FIREWORKS (ODOT SPECIAL FIREWORKS): Shall mean any
devices suitable for use by the public that conform to requirements of the
United States Consumer Products Safety Commission (CPSC) and are designed
primarily to produce visible effects by combustion, and some small devices
designed to produce an audible effect.
   CLASS 1.4G FIREWORKS (DOT COMMON FIREWORKS): Shall mean any devices suitable
for use by the public that conform to requirements of the United States
Consumer Products Safety Commission (CPSC) and are designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and some small devices designed to
produce an audible effect.
   PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS: Shall mean composition or device for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, and which is defined as common or special fireworks by the
United States Department of Transportation (DOT). Fireworks are further
classified in this law as Class 1.3G or Class 1.4G. The term "fireworks" shall
not include toy cap pistols and caps, blank cartridges, railroad flares and
model rockets.
      4.   Dates And Hours: Persons within the City limits may use or otherwise
discharge permissible fireworks only from three o'clock (3:00) P.M. to eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. on July 4th. Persons within the City limits may use or
otherwise discharge permissible fireworks only from three o'clock (3:00) P.M.
to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on July 2nd and 3rd. Other dates may be approved by
the City Manager, Fire Chief or his designee, provided the following conditions
are met. The City Manager and/or Fire Chief will post any additional approved
dates each year at City Hall.
         a.   Such fireworks must be discharged on a noncombustible surface of
sufficient size to contain the entire ground portion of the display and not
closer than thirty feet (30') to any permanent structure.
         b.   The adult person shall obtain a permit from the City or from a
licensed fireworks vendor at a cost of twenty dollars ($20.00), said permit
identifying the adult in charge of this use by name and address, and also
identifying the proposed location on or near the permit holder's property.
Applications for said permits shall be made available during normal business
hours from April 1 through July 3 of any given year and permits are valid only
for the year of issuance.
         c.   The adult permit holder in charge of the use must be physically
present for any household member over the age of eighteen (18) to use the
fireworks and within one hundred feet (100') of the point of display, and have
the permit posted in a place of prominence during the discharge of the
fireworks for examination by any law enforcement officer. The permit holder is
further responsible for the examination by any law enforcement officer. The
permit holder is further responsible for the cleaning up of any debris caused
by any person discharging fireworks under the permit holder.
         d.   Private persons may not use or discharge fireworks within any
City or County park, nor on any highway, turnpike or any street that has
paving, such as an arterial street, or collector street.
         e.   Nonpermissible fireworks would include but not limited to the
following: a battery, whether finale battery or candle battery defined as "a
collection of mortars or bundle of roman candles fused together in such a
manner they are fired within a short period of time". Chain fusing, defined as
"a series of two (2) or more aerial shells fused to fire in sequence from a
single ignition". Or any illegal explosives such as M-80s or M-100s,
"bottlerockets" or "skyrockets".
   C.   License To Sell Or Display For Sale: The sale or display for sale of
fireworks shall be unlawful within the City as set forth in subsection A of
this section. A license for the sale or display for sale of fireworks shall be
considered where the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vendor at each location must obtain an annual license from the
City at a cost of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and must also provide a copy
of the State Sales Tax permit.
      2.   The property has direct access on an arterial street and adequate on
site parking so that the operation of the stand can be conducted without
interference with travel on the paved surface of the artery.
      3.   No vendor may sell or display for sale fireworks east of Jones
Avenue to Curbs Road or west of Curtis Road to Jones Avenue or in any area
within the City limits zoned as residential. The sale or display for sale may
be permitted on the Truck Bypass from Highway 33 to Highway 99.
      4.   Only Class 1.4G fireworks, as defined by the United States
Department of Transportation, are sold on the premises.
      5.   The "season" for fireworks sales shall be limited to be only from
June 15 until July 6 of each year.
      6.   The vendor shall post and provide distribution of a "Notice of
Drumright Fireworks Ordinance" to each purchase of fireworks.
      7.   Owner or vendor shall maintain liability insurance on each location.
      8.   There have been no significant accidents reported to the City from
previous operations at the stand at that location.
      9.   Supervised public displays shall be permitted with a permit and
compliance to requirements of the Drumright Fire Department and National Fire
Protection Act (NFPA) 1123. The use of fireworks before a proximate audience
(as defined by the NFPA) shall be permitted with a fireworks permit and
compliance to NFPA 1126. Permits may be obtained from the City or a licensed
fireworks vendor at a cost of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). The permit
fee may be waived, upon written request by the City Manager, Fire Chief or his
designee. Permits must be available for inspection by the City at all times
during the display, including the setup and tear down of the launch site and
staging area.
   D.   Emergency Suspension: In the event that the Governor of the State of
Oklahoma calls a red flag fire alert or burn ban for the area encompassing the
City of Drumright and/or the City of Drumright Fire Department determines that
the City of Drumright is in fire danger due to the weather conditions, the
Mayor, City Manager or the Fire Chief of the City may declare an emergency and
cause the use of fireworks to be terminated and declare them to be illegal
during the emergency period.
   E.   Fines For Violation:
      1.   Any sale or use of fireworks in violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) plus costs.
      2.   Any use of fireworks between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M. shall be punished, upon conviction, by a
fine that is double the fine normally imposed for a violation of this section.
      3.   Possession of any fireworks other than allowed by this section shall
be punished by a fine of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) plus costs.
      4.   Failure to remove debris caused by any person discharging fireworks
under the permit holder shall be punishable by a fine of three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) plus costs.
      5.   Any fireworks used during a red flag fire alert, burn ban for the
area encompassing the City of Drumright, or emergency period declared, as set
forth in subsection D of this section, shall be punished by a fine of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) plus costs. (Ord. 327, 4-9-2018)
4-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or any legal order or regulation made pursuant
thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. (1980 Code § 8-29; amd. 2002 Code)
4-6-7: OPEN FLAME DEVICES:
No gas-fired grills, charcoal grills or other similar devices used for cooking,
heating, or any other purpose, shall be used or kindled on any balcony or under
any overhanging portion or within ten feet (10') (3 m) of any structure.
   A.   Exceptions:
      1.   One and two family dwellings.
      2.   LP-gas burners having an LP-gas container with a water capacity not
greater than 2.5 pounds [nominal 1 pound (0.454 kg) LP-gas capacity]. Two (2)
extra one pound LP-gas containers may be stored on the balcony.
      3.   Listed natural gas appliances shall be permitted on balconies when
installed in accordance with the International Fuel Gas Code and supplied by
the building's natural gas system.
      4.   Listed electric ranges, grills or similar electrical apparatus shall
be permitted. (Ord. 326, 8-14-2017)
4-6-8: KNOX BOX:
   A.   Required; exemptions.
      1.   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box
within eight feet (8') of the main entrance or other such location required by
the Fire Chief. The lock box shall be affixed in a location of not less than
four feet and not more than six feet above final grade:
         a.   Any commercial or industrial structure or assembly area protected
by an automatic alarm system or automatic suppression system, or any such
structures which are secured in a manner which restricts access during an
emergency.
         b.   Any educational facility.
         c.   Any building or facility containing a quantity of hazardous
materials which would require compliance with title Ill of SARA (superfund
amendment reauthorization act).
      2.   This section shall not apply to residential structures unless
requested by the owner, in which case, the provisions of this section shall
apply.
   B.   Time for installation. All newly constructed structures subject to this
section or at the discretion of the Fire Chief shall have the key lock box
installed and operational prior to occupancy. All structures in existence on
the effective date hereof shall have six (6) months to have a key lock box
installed and operational.
   C.   Fire Department approved padlock. Any structure meeting the
requirements of divisions (A) and (B) of this section surrounded by a locked
fence in an area barring access to the structure shall be required to utilize a
padlock in conjunction with the lock which is utilized by the property/business
owner, which is keyed to match the approved key lock box as defined by this
section. If there are multiple locked entrances through the fence, only one
shall be required to utilize the Fire Department approved lock.
   D.   Type of lock box. The Fire Chief shall designate the type of key lock
box system to be implemented within the City of Drumright and shall have the
authority to require all structures to use the designated system.
   E.   Keys required in box.
      1.   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the loci< box for the following:
         a.   The main entrance door;
         b.   Alarm room (if one exists);
         c.   Mechanical and/or sprinkler control rooms;
         d.   Fire alarm control panel;
         e.   Electrical room:
         f.   Special keys to reset pull station;
         g.   elevator keys (if an elevator exists); and
         h.   Key Card Access Cards if used:
            (1)   Any other room as specified by the Fire Chief.
            (2)   Those keys shall be labeled for easy identification in the
field.
   F.   Rules and regulations. The Fire Chief shall be authorized to implement
rules and regulations for the use of the lock box system.
   G.   Penalty. The penalty for violation of this section shall be up to five
hundred dollars ($500.00) as stated in Section 1-4-1. (Ord. 347, 11-13-2023)
CHAPTER 7
EXPLOSIVES 1
SECTION:
4-7-1: Explosives Restricted In City
4-7-2: Transporting Nitroglycerin
4-7-3: Exploding Material; Permit Required
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-6-6 of this title for penalty provisions.
4-7-1: EXPLOSIVES RESTRICTED IN CITY:
No person shall keep or permit to be kept by himself, agent, employee or other
person in his interest, within the limits of the city, any dynamite, giant
powder, hercules or blasting powder, or permit the explosion of the same or any
gunpowder, except as hereinafter set out. Any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished accordingly.
(1980 Code § 8-8)
4-7-2: TRANSPORTING NITROGLYCERIN:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to haul or transport or
cause to be hauled or transported, any nitroglycerin over, across or upon the
streets, avenues or alleys or other places within the corporate limits of the
city. (1980 Code § 8-10)
4-7-3: EXPLODING MATERIAL; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Application For Permit: No person shall explode or cause to be exploded
any inflammable or explosive at any place within the corporate limits of the
city without an application first made to the city clerk and a written permit
granted for the same.
   B.   Information Required: The application shall state the person who shall
be in charge of such explosion, the place and time of day, the special
occasion, need or other reason for same.
   C.   Consideration Of Application: The application shall be presented to the
city manager who shall examine the same. If he shall find that no danger may
arise from issuing the permit, he is hereby authorized to approve the same
under the conditions as shall be necessary to protect all persons and property
from any danger. (1980 Code § 8-11)
CHAPTER 8
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definition
4-8-2: Transport Vehicle Restrictions And Requirements
4-8-3: Tank Installation Prohibited; Exceptions
4-8-4: Changes Or Modification In Existing Systems
4-8-5: Certificate Required For System Installation
4-8-1: DEFINITION:
The term "liquefied gases" as used in this chapter shall mean and include any
material which is composed predominantly of any of the following hydrocarbons,
or mixtures of the same: propane, propylene butanes (normal butane and
isobutane), and butylenes. (1980 Code § 8-12)
4-8-2: TRANSPORT VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Use Of Designated Truck Routes: It shall be unlawful and in violation
of this chapter for any person, firm or corporation using a truck, truck
trailer or any other vehicle transporting liquefied petroleum gas that is not
making any delivery within the city limits to use any other street, highway or
alley in passing through the city, except the designated truck route bypass,
except trucks which have had an accident or stoppage by unavoidable cause.
(1980 Code § 8-15)
   B.   Labeling Of Contents: No tank, truck or trailer used for liquefied
petroleum gas shall be driven through the city or make any delivery within the
city unless properly labeled with the name of the contents and which has been
inspected and approved by the Oklahoma liquefied petroleum gas administrator.
(1980 Code § 8-16)
   C.   Compliance With Laws And Regulations: All tanks, trucks and trailers
and liquefied petroleum gas systems used within the city, or passing through
the city, shall be at all times subject to the laws of the state, and the rules
and regulations of the Oklahoma liquefied petroleum gas administrator,
governing liquefied petroleum gas, its use and transportation and handling
thereof. (1980 Code § 8-17)
   D.   Parking Restrictions: No tank, truck or trailer, whether loaded or
empty, used for liquefied petroleum gas shall be at any time parked on any
street, avenue or alley of the city, except when delivering to any user of
liquefied petroleum gas, in which event they may stop long enough to make the
said delivery. (1980 Code § 8-18)
   E.   Fire Department Notified Of Breakdown: In the event of a stop or
breakdown of any tank truck or tank trailer used for carrying liquefied
petroleum gas on any of the streets, avenues or alleys of the city, the driver
of said truck or trailer shall give immediate notice to the fire department of
the city as to the location of said truck or trailer, or both. (1980 Code § 8-
19)
   F.   Procedure For Mechanical Repairs; Permit; Fee:
      1.   In the event it becomes necessary to make any mechanical repairs to
any truck, tank, or trailer on account of a breakdown or accident within the
city limits, before such mechanical repairs may be made in any garage, machine
shop or work shop within the city, it shall be necessary immediately upon such
accident or breakdown to notify the fire chief for an application for a permit,
and if, upon such application, the fire chief finds that the truck, tank, or
trailer to be repaired is in a safe condition, he shall issue such permit,
which shall be good for a period of five (5) days.
      2.   A fee of one dollar ($1.00) for such permit shall be paid to the
city clerk. (1980 Code § 8-20)
4-8-3: TANK INSTALLATION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
From and after January 9, 1990, no person, firm, or corporation shall hereafter
install, possess or maintain within the corporate limits of the city any tanks
or receptacles of any kind or nature, temporary or permanent, for the storage,
handling, transfer, use, or sale of liquefied petroleum gas, except that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to:
   A.   Recreational vehicles legally parked in a regularly designated mobile
home park;
   B.   Recreational vehicles in use parked anywhere other than in a regularly
designated mobile home park, which vehicle has been inspected and approved by
the city fire department and for which a permit not to exceed seven (7) days in
length has been obtained from the city clerk;
   C.   Recreational vehicles not in use and parked or stored on private
property;
   D.   Storage tanks, which have been inspected and approved by the fire
department and approved by the city commission, which are utilized for transfer
of liquefied petroleum gas to vehicles powered by liquefied petroleum gas; or
   E.   Any other lawful use, application for which has been submitted to and
inspected and approved by the fire department and approved by the city
commission. (1980 Code § 8-21)
4-8-4: CHANGES OR MODIFICATION IN EXISTING SYSTEMS:
   A.   Detailed Plan Required: Any owner of a lawfully existing liquefied
petroleum gas system within the city, who desires to make any modification or
change in the system, shall, before such change is made, file with the city
commission a detailed plan outlining how, and over what period of time, such
change or modification is to be made.
   B.   Approval Of Plan: No action shall be taken by the owner to effect such
change unless and until such plan and change have been inspected by the fire
department and approved by the city commission. If such plan is approved by the
commission and the plan is not strictly followed by the owner in making such
change or modification, the owner's right to maintain such system shall be
subject to forfeiture at the discretion of the city commission. (1980 Code § 8-
21.1)
4-8-5: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR SYSTEM INSTALLATION:
Anyone installing a liquefied petroleum gas system pursuant to the provisions
of section
4-8-3 of this chapter for domestic, commercial or other use within the city
shall, prior to its use, furnish the city clerk with a certificate of the
Oklahoma state liquefied petroleum gas administrator showing that such
installation or system has been duly inspected and found satisfactory to the
administrator. (1980 Code § 8-22)
CHAPTER 9
METHAMPHETAMINE CONTAMINATION
SECTION:
4-9-1: Purpose And Scope
4-9-2: Report Of Methamphetamine Activity
4-9-3: Prohibition On Occupancy
4-9-4: Public Notice Of Contamination
4-9-5: Assessment And Remediation
4-9-6: Acceptable Levels
4-9-7: Cleanup And Safety Standards
4-9-8: Final Report
4-9-9: Penalty
4-9-10: Each Day A Separate Offense
4-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect occupants of real property
from hazardous and contaminated living environments by requiring owners of real
property to remediate any contamination of property caused by methamphetamine
activity prior to occupancy pursuant to the standards described in this
chapter.
   B.   Although other types of synthetic drugs may be manufactured in
clandestine drug laboratories, this chapter is specifically intended to
remediate the contamination and environmental dangers associated with storage
of chemical components of and methamphetamine manufacturing and use. (Ord. 288,
4-11-2011)
4-9-2: REPORT OF METHAMPHETAMINE ACTIVITY:
Upon discovery that a property within the city of Drumright is, or has been,
the location for any type of methamphetamine activity, including storage of
components for, the manufacture and/or use thereof, the police department shall
immediately report such activity to the owner of that property. If discovered
by the owner, then the owner shall immediately report such activity to the
Drumright police department. (Ord. 288, 4-11-2011)
4-9-3: PROHIBITION ON OCCUPANCY:
Until a contractor competent in hazardous waste removal and remediation, as
prescribed in this chapter, assesses the contaminated property, cleans up any
contamination and prepares a final report, as prescribed in this chapter, which
shows that the levels of contamination in the property meet the acceptable
levels listed in section
4-9-6 of this chapter, use of the property for human habitation is prohibited.
(Ord. 288, 4-11-2011)
4-9-4: PUBLIC NOTICE OF CONTAMINATION:
Within two (2) days of discovery, an owner shall display on the contaminated
structure(s) a notice to the public on a sign, no less than eighteen inches
(18") wide and eleven inches (11") high and yellow in color, the following
information:
   A.   The word "WARNING" in bold letters at least one and one-half inches
(11/2") high.
   B.   The address of the contaminated property or, if the property has
multiple structures upon it, the address of each contaminated structure.
   C.   A statement that hazardous substances, toxic chemicals, or other waste
products may be present on the property.
   D.   A warning that any person who enters the structure(s) without
permission of the owner or law enforcement will have committed a criminal
trespass subject to prosecution. (Ord. 288, 4-11-2011)
4-9-5: ASSESSMENT AND REMEDIATION:
   A.   Upon discovery that an owner's property is or has been the location for
any type of methamphetamine activity, including storage of components,
manufacture and/or use of, an owner, prior to any following occupancy of the
property and after the removal of methamphetamine manufacturing materials and
equipment by law enforcement, shall retain the services of a contractor who is
competent in hazardous waste removal and remediation to assess the level of
contamination within the property and provide a written report documenting the
level of contamination. At a minimum, such contractor shall have completed
forty (40) hours of hazardous waste operation and emergency response training
pursuant to 29 CFR 1910.120 and shall have received certification pursuant to
this training. The owner shall obtain a copy of the contractor's 29 CFR
1910.120 certification before allowing the contractor to begin the assessment.
   B.   If, upon the completion of the assessment, the contractor determines
that:
      1.   The level of contamination does not exceed the acceptable
contamination levels, as defined in section
4-9-6 of this chapter, then the owner shall require the contractor to prepare a
final report as prescribed in section
4-9-8 of this chapter. Once the final report is prepared and delivered to the
owner, the owner shall remove the notice to the public as described in section
4-9-4 of this chapter. A copy of the final report shall be delivered to the
city manager or chief of police and the chief building official and upon
receipt and approval of the final report by the city manager or chief of police
and the chief building official, the real property may be occupied.
      2.   The level of contamination exceeds the acceptable levels defined in
section
4-9-6 of this chapter, then the owner shall not allow use of the property for
human habitation until a contractor (who has completed 40 hours of hazardous
waste operation and emergency response training pursuant to 29 CFR 1910.120 and
who has received certification pursuant to this training) has: a) cleaned up
any contamination and remediated the property according to the standards of
section
4-9-7 of this chapter; and b) conducted another assessment which shows that
contamination levels are acceptable pursuant to section
4-9-6 of this chapter. Once the level of contamination meets the acceptable
standards defined in section
4-9-6 of this chapter, then the owner shall require the contractor to prepare a
final report as prescribed in section
4-9-8 of this chapter. Once the final report is prepared and delivered to the
owner, the owner shall remove the notice to the public as described in section
4-9-4 of this chapter. A copy of the final report shall be delivered to the
city manager or chief of police and the chief building official and upon
receipt of the final report by the city manager or chief of police and the
chief building official, the real property may be occupied. (Ord. 288, 4-11-
2011)
4-9-6: ACCEPTABLE LEVELS:
   A.   The owner shall require the certified contractor to test the levels of
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), pH, mercury, lead, and methamphetamine in
both the initial assessment and the postremediation assessment.
   B.   Acceptable levels for each are the following:
      1.   VOCs: 0.9 parts per million or below.
      2.   pH: Surface level of 7 or below.
      3.   Mercury: 0.3 microgram per cubic meter of mercury in air or below.
      4.   Lead: Twenty (20) micrograms per square foot or below.
      5.   Methamphetamine: 0.1 microgram per one hundred (100) square
centimeters or below. (Ord. 288, 4-11-2011)
4-9-7: CLEANUP AND SAFETY STANDARDS:
Contractors hired by an owner to engage in removal and remediation shall
conduct assessments and cleanup pursuant to the relevant standards and
guidelines proposed or adopted by the Oklahoma drug enforcement agency, the
federal drug enforcement agency, the Oklahoma department of environmental
quality, and the environmental protection agency and shall follow safety
procedures mandated by the relevant federal and state agencies governing
hazardous waste. (Ord. 288, 4-11-2011)
4-9-8: FINAL REPORT:
   A.   All inspections and assessments conducted by a contractor during the
removal and remediation process shall be fully documented in writing. The
report shall include the dates that activities were performed and the names and
signatures of the people and/or companies who performed the activities. The
final report shall include any other types of relevant documentation,
including, but not limited to, photographs, video recordings, drawings, and
charts. Such additional documentation shall likewise be signed and dated. The
owner shall immediately provide a copy of the final report to the city manager
or chief of police and the chief building official upon receipt from the
contractor.
   B.   The final report, at a minimum, shall include:
      1.   A case narrative, site description, and site assessment.
      2.   Physical address of property, number and type of structures on
property, and description of adjacent and/or surrounding properties.
      3.   Law enforcement reports, documented observations, and preremediation
sampling results that provide information regarding the manufacturing method,
chemicals present, cooking areas, chemical storage areas, and observed areas of
contamination or waste disposal.
      4.   Name of cleanup contractor(s) and the contractor's qualifications,
experience, and copy(ies) of any certification(s); and
      5.   The signature of the contractor who prepared the report.
      6.   A copy of the contractor's 29 CFR 1910.120 certification.
   C.   Where property is remediated, final reports shall also include:
      1.   Worker safety and health information.
      2.   Decontamination and encapsulation procedures for each area that was
decontaminated.
      3.   Documentation that the structure was cleaned to acceptable levels,
including, but not limited to, the location and results of postdecontamination
samples, description of analytical methods used, and the location(s) of
laboratory(ies) used. (Ord. 288, 4-11-2011)
4-9-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by assessment of a fine in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) plus court costs for each offense and the revocation of the occupancy
permit of the structure(s) involved. (Ord. 288, 4-11-2011)
4-9-10: EACH DAY A SEPARATE OFFENSE:
Each day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense, punishable by fine and costs as provided in section
4-9-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 288, 4-11-2011)
CHAPTER 10
FENCES
SECTION:
4-10-1: Electric Fences
4-10-1: ELECTRIC FENCES:
   A.   Intent: This section shall pertain to electric fences on the perimeter
of an owner's property.
   B.   Regulations:
      1.   Any electric fence in the city of Drumright must be UL listed and
approved to be safe for humans.
      2.   Electric fences shall be clearly identified with warning signs at
intervals of not less than sixty feet (60').
      3.   Prior to the electric fence becoming operational for the first time,
the owner of an electric fence must notify all neighbors within three hundred
feet (300') via certified mail that the fence is being installed.
      4.   Owners of electric fences must comply with all area, enclosure, and
location ordinances regarding the animals they are enclosing.
   C.   Penalty: Individuals who violate this section may be fined fifty
dollars ($50.00) per day for each day a fence is not in compliance. (Ord. 300,
7-8-2013)
CHAPTER 11
NEGLECTED/VACANT BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Emergency Response To Neglected/Vacant Buildings
4-11-1: EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO NEGLECTED/VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   Findings And Purpose: It is the finding of the city of Drumright that
neglected/vacant buildings and residential structures are unsightly, unsafe,
and have a negative effect on the community. The purpose of this chapter is to
protect the health, safety, morals and welfare of the citizens of Drumright by
establishing a program for emergency response to neglected/vacant buildings.
   B.   Definitions: Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms
will, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings indicated in this
section:
    EMERGENCY: That the condition of a building, structure, or any part thereof
is an imminent, immediate, and substantial danger to the health or safety of
occupants, emergency responders, and/or the general public. Such conditions
include, but are not limited to, fire hazards; failing or dilapidated
buildings, structures, or any part thereof; loss of significant water, heat, or
ventilation; or lack of sanitary conditions.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any duly authorized city of Drumright employee of the
code enforcement department, the Drumright fire department, or the Drumright
police department.
   NEGLECTED/VACANT BUILDING/RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE: A building, regardless of
the use, the square footage or the presence of more than one living unit, a
portion of a building, residential structure, or a structure which is any one
or more of the following:
      1.   Unoccupied and unsecured;
      2.   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means;
      3.   Unoccupied and an unsafe building or residential structure with
suspected code violations as determined by an enforcement officer;
      4.   Unoccupied and an enforcement officer has issued an order to correct
code violations;
Exemptions: For the purposes of this chapter, only the following properties are
exempt:
      1.   All properties owned by the federal government, the state of
Oklahoma, and all political subdivisions thereof.
   OWNER: The person, persons, or entity shown to be the owner or owners of
record as listed by the current year's tax rolls of the Creek or Payne County
treasurers; those identified as the owner or owners on a vacant buildings and
residential structures registration form; a mortgagee in possession, a
mortgagor in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, administrator,
trustee, or lessee; or other person, firm, or corporation in control of the
premises. Any such person or entity will have joint and several obligations for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS: That condition when a building or
residential structure is secured by means other than those used in the design
and approved plans for the building.
   UNOCCUPIED: That condition when a building or residential structure or a
portion thereof lacks the habitual presence of human beings who have a legal
right to be on the premises, including buildings or residential structures
ordered vacated by an enforcement officer. In determining whether a building or
residential structure is unoccupied, the enforcement officer may consider these
factors, among others:
      1.   Whether lawful residential or business activity has ceased;
      2.   The percentage of the overall square footage of the occupied to
unoccupied space or the overall number of occupied and unoccupied units and
their proximity to each other;
      3.   The building or residential structure is substantially devoid of
contents or the fixtures or personal property located in the building or
residential structure are of a minimal value;
      4.   The building or residential structure lacks utility services;
      5.   The building or residential structure is the subject of a
foreclosure action;
      6.   Duration of vacancy; and/or
      7.   The presence or reoccurrence of code violations.
   UNSECURED: That condition when a building or residential structure or
portion of a building or residential structure is open to entry by unauthorized
persons without the use of tools or ladders.
   C.   Declaration And Response:
      1.   The city commission of the city of Drumright may declare a property
neglected or vacant if it meets the criteria of the definition of "neglected/
vacant building/residential structure" of this section.
         a.   A property owner has the right to address the city commission at
this hearing, and may call witnesses and/or provide written documentation for
the commission to consider.
         b.   If the property owner is not present, the city manager will send
the property owner a copy of the city commission's decision within seven (7)
days to the owner's address as shown at the county assessor's office.
      2.   Once the city commission declares a property neglected or vacant,
the city of Drumright may charge a property owner thirty dollars ($30.00) per
hour, per officer who responds to a fire or to criminal activity.
         a.   In case of a fire or criminal activity at a location, the city
manager will send the property owner a bill within fifteen (15) days to the
owner's address as shown at the county assessor's office.
         b.   A property owner has the right to appeal this charge to the city
manager. The city manager may affirm or relieve the charge.
         c.   If the city manager affirms the charge, a property owner has the
right to appeal to the city commission. The city commission's decision shall be
final. (Ord. 315, 3-9-2015)
CHAPTER 12
SMOKING, TOBACCO, AND VAPOR PRODUCTS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Definitions
4-12-2: Prohibited Conduct
4-12-3: Required Signs
4-12-4: Penalties And Enforcement
4-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
INDOOR AREA: Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the public, at
all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. Indoor Area includes
work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee
cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees, as well as
all space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed
by walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows,
stairways, or the like.
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: All buildings, Indoor Areas, and Outdoor Areas, including
but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or portions thereof,
owned or operated by the City of Drumright, including but not limited to
vehicles and equipment owned by the municipality.
OUTDOOR AREA: Any area that is not an Indoor Area and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
SMOKING: The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or other
lighted smoking device.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. Tobacco Product does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. Vapor Product shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device.
(Ord. 346, 10-10-2023)
4-12-2: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   No person is allowed to Smoke Tobacco Products in any places in which
Smoking Tobacco Products is prohibited by Oklahoma state law. (63 Okl. St. Ann.
§ 1-1523 (2019)).
   B.   No person is allowed to Smoke or use Tobacco Products and/or Vapor
Products on any Municipal Property, indoor and outdoor, including parks,
recreational areas, and city owned vehicles.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting
Smoking or the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products on their property,
even if the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is not otherwise
prohibited in that area.
   D.   No person or entity shall knowingly permit Smoking or the use of
Tobacco Products or Vapor Products in an area that is under their control, if
the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is prohibited by law in that
area.
   E.   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles, such
as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person or
entity and in which Smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of ash
receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of Tobacco Products
or Vapor Products in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   F.   No person shall dispose of Smoking, Tobacco Product, or Vapor Product
waste within an area in which Smoking, and the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor
Products is prohibited.
   G.   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 346, 10-10-2023)
4-12-3: REQUIRED SIGNS:
   A.   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which Smoking, and the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products is prohibited
by this chapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each
point of entry to the area, and in prominent locations within the area.
   B.   For restrictions on Smoking and the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor
Products in Indoor Areas, the sign or decal shall be at least 4 inches by 2
inches in size and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is
prohibited or that a tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on
the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products in Outdoor Areas, signs shall be
weather-resistant, at least 15 inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of
at least 1 inch, and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is
prohibited or that a tobacco-free environment is provided.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, the City Manager or his/her designee
shall be responsible for the posting of signs on Municipal Property, both
indoor and outdoor.
   D.   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of Smoking or the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor
Products in violation of any other provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 346, 10-10-2023)
4-12-4: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of City of
Drumright Police Department. In addition, any peace officer or code enforcement
official may enforce this chapter.
   B.   Any person who knowingly violates this chapter shall be punished by a
citation and fine of not less than $25 and not more than $100 in accordance
with the City of Drumright Municipal Code.
   C.   The possession of a lighted Tobacco Product in violation of this
chapter is a nuisance.
   D.   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of any
provision of this chapter regarding Tobacco Product or Vapor Product use shall
also constitute a violation of this chapter.
   E.   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other law,
any violation of this chapter regarding Tobacco Product or Vapor Product use
may be remedied by the City Counsel including, but not limited to,
administrative or judicial nuisance abatement proceedings, criminal code
enforcement proceedings, and suits for injunctive relief.
(Ord. 346, 10-10-2023)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS; MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Adoption Of State Misdemeanor Statutes; Violations
5-1A-2: Offenses; Penalty
5-1A-3: Attempts To Commit An Offense
5-1A-4: Aiding In An Offense
5-1A-5: Intoxication; Effect
5-1A-6: Assault And Battery
5-1A-7: False Fire Alarms
5-1A-1: ADOPTION OF STATE MISDEMEANOR STATUTES; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Adoption: All misdemeanor offenses and any amendment thereof contained
in the Oklahoma Statutes, including, but not limited to, title 21, are hereby
adopted and included herein by reference and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out herein.
   B.   Violations: It shall be unlawful and a violation of this code for any
person to commit an act or acts which constitute misdemeanors, pursuant to the
Oklahoma Statutes, and any amendments thereof. The municipal court shall have
full authority to hear and sentence on all such violations of the law.
   C.   Conflicts: In the event of conflict between elements of the offenses
specifically set forth in the code and the state statutes adopted by reference,
prosecutions will be conducted under the state statutes and any amendments
thereof adopted by reference.
   D.   Penalty: In no event shall fines or incarceration exceed the
jurisdictional limits imposed by the Oklahoma legislature on the municipal
court. (2002 Code)
5-1A-2: OFFENSES; PENALTY:
Except in cases where a different punishment is now or may hereafter be
prescribed by ordinance, any person who commits an offense shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense. (1980 Code §§ 14-1, 14-72; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1A-3: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the provisions of this
code, and ordinances of the city, and in such attempt does any act toward the
commission of such offense, but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the
perpetration thereof, is guilty of an offense, and shall be punished in the
manner prescribed for the offense itself. (1980 Code § 14-2; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1A-4: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling, aiding, or abetting in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by this code or by ordinance, every
person who counsels, aids, or abets another in the commission of such is guilty
of an offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(1980 Code § 14-3; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1A-5: INTOXICATION; EFFECT:
No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
either from liquors or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by reason of his
being in such condition. (1980 Code § 14-4)
5-1A-6: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
    ASSAULT: Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to
do a corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: Any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of
another.
   B.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the city, and any person committing an assault or an assault and
battery within the city is guilty of an offense. (1980 Code § 14-45)
5-1A-7: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false fire alarm, or in any manner
to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or any officer or employee
thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or knowingly to
cause the fire department or its officers or employees to make a useless run.
(1980 Code § 14-67)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY AND MORALITY
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Gambling
5-1B-2: Harmful Deception
5-1B-3: Deceit; Fraud
5-1B-4: Vagrancy
5-1B-5: Begging Prohibited
5-1B-6: Loitering About Public Places
5-1B-7: False Registration
5-1B-8: Dancing On Sunday Prohibited
5-1B-9: Immoral Conduct; Prostitution
5-1B-10: Liquor Related Offenses
5-1B-11: Drug Related Offenses
5-1B-1: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or
agent or employee thereof, to play, to open or cause to be opened, or to
operate, carry on, or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, or
any device, for money, checks, chips, credit, or any other thing of value; to
set up, operate, or permit to be operated, any slot machine or other device
whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit, or any other thing of value are
played, when the act of playing the same results in a gain or loss to the party
playing; or to gamble knowingly in any other manner; or knowingly to permit his
or its premises, houses, lot or other property to be used in connection with,
or for, any act declared unlawful in this subsection. (1980 Code § 14-5)
   B.   Loitering About Gambling Place: It is unlawful for any person to loiter
about in the immediate vicinity where persons are gambling, whether by playing
games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise. (1980 Code § 14-
6)
5-1B-2: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise) when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm, or injury of the person deceived or
of a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1980 Code § 14-7)
5-1B-3: DECEIT; FRAUD:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    DECEIT: Any wilful representation of the existence of any fact or
circumstance which in truth does not exist, by which representation one person
procures from another anything of value, not exceeding in value the sum of
fifty dollars ($50.00), to the injury of the person on whom such deceit is
practiced.
   FRAUD: Within the contemplation of this section, any wilful and misleading
representation in writing or any false statement in writing made or signed by
any person with the intent that such representation or statement shall be
relied upon by any other person, whereby the former procures anything of value,
not exceeding twenty dollars ($20.00) in value, from the person to whom such
representation or statement is made, or whereby any person, directly or
indirectly is caused to suffer any financial loss by relying or acting upon, or
receiving, buying, accepting or uttering such representation or statement.
   B.   Prohibited Act: Anyone who commits an act of deceit or fraud in the
city is guilty of an offense and shall be punished accordingly. (1980 Code §
14-8)
5-1B-4: VAGRANCY:
   A.   Vagrants Defined: The following persons are "vagrants" within the
meaning of this section:
      1.   Any person who strolls about to tell fortunes or to exhibit tricks
not licensed in accordance with law or ordinance.
      2.   Any common prostitute, any manager or controller of a house of
prostitution or ill fame, or anyone employed therein as a barkeeper, caller of
figures for dance, or habitual frequenter thereof.
      3.   Any professional gambler or gambler commonly known as a tinhorn
gambler, card player or card sharp.
      4.   Any person who goes about to beg alms, who is not afflicted or
disabled by a physical malady or misfortune.
      5.   Any habitual drunkard.
      6.   Any person who abandons or neglects or refuses to support his
family. (1980 Code § 14-10)
   B.   Vagrancy Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to be a vagrant in
the city, and any person who is a vagrant in the city shall be punished as
provided by the ordinances of the city. (1980 Code § 14-11)
5-1B-5: BEGGING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms from any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (1980 Code § 14-12)
5-1B-6: LOITERING ABOUT PUBLIC PLACES:
It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of a public or
private school, or in or about any public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier. (1980 Code § 14-13)
5-1B-7: FALSE REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration Unlawful: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person to register or attempt to register under a false or assumed name at any
hotel or rooming house within the city. (1980 Code § 14-14)
   B.   Unlawful To Accept: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person
having the control or management thereof or the charge of registering guests in
any hotel or rooming house to register or permit such guests to register under
an assumed or false name when such person has knowledge that the name offered
for registration is not the correct name of the party attempting such
registration. (1980 Code § 14-15)
5-1B-8: DANCING ON SUNDAY PROHIBITED 1 :
No dance shall be conducted, permitted or carried on within the city between
the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Saturday and twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on Sunday, within the city. (1980 Code § 14-16)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 3-4C-6 of this code.
5-1B-9: IMMORAL CONDUCT; PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Immoral Conduct, Consorting: It is unlawful for any person to engage in
illicit sexual intercourse or any other immoral act, or knowingly to consort
with a prostitute or other person of immoral vocation, or to consort with
another for an immoral purpose, or to occupy any room for an immoral purpose,
whether in a public or private place in the city, or to loiter about a house or
place of prostitution or a house or place devoted to lewd or immoral acts.
(1980 Code § 14-17)
   B.   Prostitution:
      1.   Keeping House Of Prostitution: It is unlawful for any person or any
agent or employee thereof to keep or assist in keeping a house of prostitution
or a house or place in the city where persons meet or assemble for illicit
sexual intercourse or for any other lewd or immoral purpose; or knowingly to
permit a prostitute or other person of an immoral vocation to become or remain
a guest in a hotel or rooming house. (1980 Code § 14-18)
      2.   Residing In House Of Prostitution: It is unlawful for any person to
be an inmate or resident of a house of prostitution or of a house or place
devoted to lewd or immoral acts. (1980 Code § 14-19)
      3.   Pimps: It is unlawful for any person to act as a pimp, or procurer,
for any house or place of prostitution or for any prostitute or other person
engaged in an immoral vocation, or to procure, assist in procuring, or attempt
to procure any person for another for illicit sexual intercourse or for any
other immoral purpose. (1980 Code § 14-20)
   C.   Nudity, Improper Dress, Indecent Exposure: It is unlawful for any
person to appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity or in any
offensive, indecent, or lewd dress; or to make an indecent public exposure of
his or her person. (1980 Code § 14-21)
   D.   Indecent Conduct; Peeping Into Dwellings:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a
lewd or indecent manner or in a manner offensive to the good morals of the
city, or to perform any act which is detrimental to the good morals of the
city, in any public or private place within the city.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to hide or loiter in the vicinity of
any private dwelling house, apartment, or building with the intent to watch, or
gaze or look at, occupants therein in a clandestine manner; or while so hiding
or loitering, to watch, or gaze or look at, occupants therein in a clandestine
manner. (1980 Code § 14-22)
5-1B-10: LIQUOR RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Sell Or Furnish Liquor: It is unlawful for any person to barter, sell,
give away, or otherwise furnish to another, any intoxicating liquor or beverage
of any kind except as permitted by law. (1980 Code § 14-23)
   B.   Possession Of Liquor: It is unlawful for any person to have in his
possession or under his control any intoxicating liquor or beverage of any
kind, except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey from
place to place within the city any such intoxicating liquor or beverage except
as permitted by law. (1980 Code § 14-24)
   C.   Loitering Where Liquor Sold: It is unlawful for any person to loiter in
any place where intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind is bartered, sold,
given away, or otherwise furnished contrary to law. (1980 Code § 14-25)
   D.   Unlawfully Maintaining Liquor Sales Establishment: It is unlawful for
any person, or any agent or employee thereof, to keep, maintain, or aid or abet
in keeping or maintaining, a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered,
given away or otherwise furnished in violation of law or the ordinances of the
city. (1980 Code § 14-26)
   E.   Drunkenness And Drinking In Public Place: It is unlawful for any person
drunk, or in a state of intoxication, to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, place of business or other public place; or for any person to drink
intoxicating liquor or beverage upon or in any street, alley, or other public
place within the city. (1980 Code § 14-27)
5-1B-11: DRUG RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Illegal Use Of Toxic Compounds: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deliberately smell, inhale, breathe, drink, or otherwise consume any compound,
liquid, chemical, narcotic, drug, or any other substance or chemical containing
any keotanes, aldehydes, organic acetates, ether, chlorinated hydrocarbons,
such as gasoline, glue, fingernail polish, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope,
paint, or any other substance or combination thereof containing solvents
releasing toxic vapors, which can cause conditions of intoxication,
inebriation, excitement, elation, stupefaction, paralysis, irrationality,
dulling of the brain or nervous system, or any other changing, distorting, or
disturbing of the eyesight, thinking processes, judgment, balance or
coordination of such person. Provided, however, that the provisions of this
section shall not pertain to any person who inhales, breathes, drinks or
otherwise consumes such material or substance pursuant to the direction or
prescription of any licensed physician, dentist or other duly licensed
practitioner; nor to the consumption of intoxicating liquor in such places or
manner as may be authorized and permitted by state law.
   B.   Possession Or Use Of Drugs: It shall be unlawful for any person,
partnership, association or corporation to possess, control, sell, prescribe,
administer, dispense or use any narcotic drugs, barbiturates, amphetamines, or
marijuana, except as provided and authorized by the laws of the state of
Oklahoma. (1980 Code § 14-32)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Weapons And Firearms
5-1C-2: Unlawful Assembly Prohibited
5-1C-3: Disturbing The Peace; Disorderly Conduct
5-1C-4: Disturbing Assemblages
5-1C-5: Loud Noise Or Music
5-1C-6: Displaying Insulting Signs
5-1C-7: Literature Or Language Ridiculing Deity
5-1C-8: Obscene Language
5-1C-1: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS:
   A.   Carrying Concealed Weapons: It is unlawful for any person to carry
concealed upon or about his person any pistol, revolver, bowie knife, dirk,
dagger, metal knuckle, switchblade knife, or other dangerous or deadly weapon
or instrument, except when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted by
law. (1980 Code § 14-33)
   B.   Discharging Firearms, Air Rifles, BB Guns; Exceptions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in the city
except when doing so in line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, or another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law
or ordinance.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, shoot or discharge any
air rifle, air gun, pellet weapon or CO2 cartridge gun within the limits of the
city, or upon any property owned or controlled by the city.
      3.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall carry,
discharge, use or be in possession of any firearm, weapon, air gun, gas
operated gun, or any bow or sling type instrument made for the purpose of
throwing or projecting missiles of any kind and capable of inflicting injury,
whether loaded or unloaded.
      4.   No person shall sell to a minor any of the firearms named in
subsections B2 and B3 of this section.
      5.   Exceptions to the provisions of this subsection B shall be as stated
in 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1289.6, "conditions under which firearms may be
carried", and then only when accompanied by and under the immediate supervision
of a parent or legal guardian. (1980 Code § 14-34; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1C-2: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for three (3) or more persons to assemble together, or, being
assembled together, to act in concert to do any unlawful act against the peace,
or to the terror of others, or to make any movement thereto or any preparation
therefor, or otherwise to assemble together unlawfully or riotously. (1980 Code
§ 14-35; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1C-3: DISTURBING THE PEACE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or others by
violent, obstreperous, or improper conduct or carriage, by loud or unusual
noise, or by unseemly, obscene, offensive, or abusive language; or to insult
another or others by such conduct or language; or to conduct himself in a
disorderly manner. (1980 Code § 14-36)
5-1C-4: DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES:
   A.   Religious Worship: It is unlawful for any person to disturb any
congregation or assembly of persons meeting for religious worship by making
noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud
language, or in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within
hearing distance thereof. (1980 Code § 14-37)
   B.   Public Assembly: It is unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful
public gathering or assembly by making noise, by rude, indecent, or improper
behavior, by profane, improper, or loud language, or in any other manner,
either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof. (1980
Code § 14-38)
5-1C-5: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part of
the city by operating, having operated, or permitted to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a
manner as to emit loud music, noise, or words. However, this shall not prohibit
religious bodies from playing chimes, bells, carillons, or other religious
music. Quiet hours in the city of Drumright are from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Reasonable noise levels are expected at all
times. (1980 Code § 14-39; amd. Ord. 299, 5-13-2013)
5-1C-6: DISPLAYING INSULTING SIGNS:
It is unlawful for any person to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag, or
device which in its common acceptance is insulting, profane, or abusive to the
citizens of the city, and which is calculated or of which the natural
consequence is, to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (1980 Code § 14-
40)
5-1C-7: LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING DEITY:
It is unlawful for any person to circulate any literature or use any language
within the corporate limits of the city, that casts profane ridicule on any
deity or religion, which in its common acceptance is calculated to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault. (1980 Code § 14-41)
5-1C-8: OBSCENE LANGUAGE:
No person shall use any obscene or profane language on any street, alley or
public grounds of the city, nor shall any person address any indecent or
insulting language to any other person or by words or innuendo, make any
indecent proposal to any such person or persons. Such acts are unlawful and an
offense against the person. (1980 Code § 14-42; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Larceny Related Offenses
5-1D-2: Tampering With Vehicles
5-1D-3: Injuring Buildings And Other Property
5-1D-4: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
5-1D-5: Throwing Objects At Persons Or Property
5-1D-6: Tampering With Public Utilities; Public Property
5-1D-7: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
5-1D-8: Unlawful Entrance
5-1D-9: Weights And Measures
5-1D-10: Removal Of Barricades
5-1D-11: Air Conditioner Condensation Diverted
5-1D-1: LARCENY RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Petit Larceny Defined:
      1.   "Petit larceny" is the taking, accompanied by fraud and stealth, of
personal property and with the intent to deprive the owner thereof of the use
of the same when such property is of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or
less.
      2.   If the thing stolen consists of any evidence of debt or other
written instrument, the amount of money due thereon or secured to be paid
thereby and remaining unsatisfied, or which in any contingency might be
collected thereon, or the sum which might be recovered in the absence thereof,
as the case may be, shall be deemed the value of the thing stolen. (1980 Code §
14-46; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Subjects Of Larceny: Any written evidence of debt, and written order or
promise for the payment of money or delivery of goods, public security or
passage ticket, though the same has never been issued or delivered by the
makers thereof to any person or purchaser, and any personal property, are the
subjects of larceny. (1980 Code § 14-47)
   C.   Larceny Of Severed Fixture: Any fixture or part of realty, the instant
it is severed from the realty, becomes personal property and when the same is
of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less, is the subject of larceny
within the meaning of this section. (1980 Code § 14-48; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Larceny Committed Outside City: Every person who steals the property of
another without the corporate limits of the city and brings the same within the
corporate limits of the city shall be convicted and punished in the same manner
as if such larceny had been committed within the city limits; and such larceny
may be charged to have been committed within the city. (1980 Code § 14-49)
   E.   Larceny Of Lost Property: One who finds lost property of the value of
fifty dollars ($50.00) or less, under circumstances which give him knowledge or
means of inquiry as to the true owner, and who appropriates such property to
his own use, or to the use of another person who is not entitled thereto,
without having first made such effort as the circumstances render reasonable
and just, to find the owner and restore the property to him, is guilty of petit
larceny. (1980 Code § 14-50; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1D-2: TAMPERING WITH VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, or loiter in any automobile or other vehicle belonging to another
without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (1980 Code § 14-
51; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1D-3: INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (1980 Code § 14-52)
5-1D-4: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device, or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, or other property
of another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (1980
Code § 14-53)
5-1D-5: THROWING OBJECTS AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light,
or other property of another (whether public or private), except where such is
done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property. (1980 Code § 14-
54)
5-1D-6: TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES; PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Utilities: It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind
of pipe, wire, or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire, or other conductor
carrying gas, water, or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether
publicly or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to consume or
use the gas, water, or electricity without its passing through the meter or in
any other way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any
person to damage, molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter
or other part of any public utility, including telegraph and telephone systems.
(1980 Code § 14-55)
   B.   Water And Sewer Lines: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
association or corporation to break, cut, molest, destroy, damage, tamper with,
or in any manner obstruct any water meter, water line, water connection or
sewer line and connection or any appurtenances or appendages therewith
connected. (1980 Code § 14-58)
   C.   Electric Wires, Poles: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
association or corporation to injure, cut, break down, molest, destroy, damage,
tamper with, or in any manner obstruct any electric light wires, poles, meters,
connections or appurtenances, or appendages therewith connected. (1980 Code §
14-59)
5-1D-7: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land within the
city without license or authority from the owner thereof, or who erects or
occupies thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without such
license or authority, and every person who places, erects, or occupies within
the bounds of any street, alley or avenue of the city, any hut, hovel, shanty,
or other structure whatever, is guilty of an offense. (1980 Code § 14-56)
5-1D-8: UNLAWFUL ENTRANCE:
It is unlawful for any person to enter upon the property of another or into an
area or structure on such property (whether such property, area, or structure
is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or
otherwise or when the property, area, or structure is enclosed, except when
such entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. (1980
Code § 14-57)
5-1D-9: WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
   A.   False Weight: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person within
the city limits to knowingly sell any commodity or article of merchandise and
in the sale thereof make or give a false or short weight therefor or for any
person owning or keeping or having in charge any scales of scaleyards used in
weighing livestock, hay, grain, coal or any other article to knowingly and
wilfully report any false or untrue weight whereby another person shall be
defrauded or damaged. (1980 Code § 14-60)
   B.   Short Weights And Measures: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to sell, or offer for sale, any food, fuel, clothing, or any other
commodity which does not weigh or measure fully as much, according to standard
weights or measures of the state of Oklahoma, as the weight or measure for
which it is sold or offered for sale. (1980 Code § 14-70)
5-1D-10: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area. (1980 Code § 14-69)
5-1D-11: AIR CONDITIONER CONDENSATION DIVERTED:
Anyone having an air conditioning or air cooling system now situated upon the
awning of any building within the fire limits of the city shall dispose of the
water therefrom, by diverting the wastewater from such air conditioning or
cooling system, to the back of their respective buildings or connecting their
water disposal system therefrom within the city storm sewer system. (1980 Code
§ 14-71)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
5-1E-2: Resisting Officers
5-1E-3: Personating An Officer Or Employee
5-1E-4: Neglect Of Official Duty
5-1E-5: False Representation To An Officer
5-1E-6: Offenses Relating To Prisoners
5-1E-7: Failure To Appear In Court
5-1E-1: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   Authority To Request Aid: An officer of the city making or about to
make an arrest, or executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in
accordance with the ordinances of the city or with state or federal law, or
suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray, or unlawful assembly, may call
upon a person or persons to assist him in making such arrest, executing such
process, or suppressing such riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   B.   Failure To Assist: It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon
thus to assist an officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. (1980 Code §
14-61)
5-1E-2: RESISTING OFFICERS:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to resist, oppose, or
obstruct the chief of police, any other police officer, the municipal judge, or
other officer, or employee of the city in the discharge of his official duties;
or by threat or otherwise, to intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or to assault or
beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or indecent language
toward or about any such officer or employee while such officer or employee is
in the discharge of his official duties. (1980 Code § 14-62)
5-1E-3: PERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to personate any officer or employee of the city,
falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, or exercise
or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or powers of an officer or
employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so. (1980 Code § 14-
65)
5-1E-4: NEGLECT OF OFFICIAL DUTY:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any city officer to wilfully, wantonly,
and knowingly neglect, refuse or fail to discharge any of the duties required
of him by the ordinances of the city. (1980 Code § 14-66)
5-1E-5: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person or any agent or employee thereof knowingly to
make any material misrepresentation to any officer, employee or agency of the
city government in any official application to, or official dealing or
negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit perjury before any
tribunal or officer of the city. (1980 Code § 14-68)
5-1E-6: OFFENSES RELATING TO PRISONERS:
   A.   Assisting Escape; Providing Weapons, Liquor Or Narcotics: It is
unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at liberty, rescue, or
attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner or prisoners from any officer
or employee of the city having legal custody of the same or from the city jail
or other place of confinement by the city, or to assist such prisoner in any
manner to escape from such prison or custody, or to give such prisoner any
weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to assist him in
escape, or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverage or narcotics. (1980
Code § 14-63)
   B.   Escape Of Prisoners: It is unlawful for any person confined in the city
jail or other place of confinement by the city, or working upon the streets or
other public places of the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held
in legal custody by authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from
any such jail, prison, or custody. (1980 Code § 14-64)
5-1E-7: FAILURE TO APPEAR IN COURT 1 :
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person who has been cited
or summoned to the municipal court of the city of Drumright, Oklahoma, to fail
to appear on his/her appointed court date unless prior arrangements have been
made through the city attorney or the municipal court clerk.
   B.   The penalty for failing to appear shall be in addition to the penalty
for the violation for which a person was originally cited or summoned and shall
be assessed by the municipal judge in an amount up to the maximum fine
permissible under state law in a municipal court. (Ord. 276, 8-9-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-10-14 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
MINORS; CURFEW
SECTION:
5-2-1: Minors Defined
5-2-2: Curfew Hours
5-2-3: Exceptions
5-2-4: Parental Responsibility
5-2-1: MINORS DEFINED:
All persons under the age of eighteen (18) are hereby defined as "minors" for
the purpose of this chapter. (1980 Code § 14-28)
5-2-2: CURFEW HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in
or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement
and entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places, between the hours
of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following
day, of every night and morning in the week, except Friday and Saturday nights
and the following mornings, and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on Friday and Saturday nights and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the
following mornings. (1980 Code § 14-29)
5-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of section
5-2-2 of this chapter shall not apply to a minor who is accompanied by his or
her parent or parents, a guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an emergency errand or is
pursuing a legitimate business purpose directed or approved by the parent,
parents, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the
minor. (1980 Code § 14-30)
5-2-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Permitting Violation: It shall be unlawful for the parent, parents,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a person under
eighteen (18) years of age to knowingly permit such minor to violate the
provision of section
5-2-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Responsibility: Additional parental and guardian
responsibility must be exercised as may be required by state law or regulation.
(1980 Code § 14-31)
CHAPTER 3
PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Unlawful To Sell Or Furnish Tobacco, Nicotine Or Vapor Product To
Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age
5-3-3: Distribution Of Tobacco Product And Vapor Product Samples
5-3-4: Public Access To Displayed Tobacco, Nicotine Or Vapor Products
5-3-5: Enforcement
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
NICOTINE PRODUCT: Any product that contains nicotine extracted or isolated from
plants, vegetables, fruit, herbs, weeds, genetically modified organic matter,
or that is synthetic in origin and is intended for human consumption; provided,
however, this term shall not include products approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration for smoking cessation.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed;
PROOF OF AGE: A driver license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
twenty-one (21) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other
likeness of the individual and appears on its face to be valid;
SAMPLE: A tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product distributed to
members of the public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product;
SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place;
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption;
TRANSACTION SCAN: The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or other government-
issued photo identification;
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: Any commercial device or combination of devices used
at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an electronically
readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or bar code of a
driver license or other government-issued photo identification; and
VAPOR PRODUCT: Noncombustible products, that may or may not contain nicotine,
that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit, or other
mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce a vapor in
a solution or other form. “Vapor products” shall include any vapor cartridge or
other container with or without nicotine or other form that is intended to be
used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any vapor cartridge or other
container of a solution, that may or may not contain nicotine, that is intended
to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo or electronic device. “Vapor products” do not include any products
regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(Ord. 344, 10-11-2023)
5-3-2: UNLAWFUL TO SELL OR FURNISH TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCT TO
PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product to another person who is
under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco
product, nicotine product or vapor product on behalf of any such person. It
shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to
handle tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor products when required in
performance of the employee’s duties.
   B.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than twenty-one
(21) years of age.
   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years of
age, the failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a
violation of this subsection.
   C.   1.   Any violation of subsection A or B of this section is an offense
against the City of Drumright; upon conviction of any such offense, the
violator shall be punished as follows:
         a.   Not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense;
         b.   Not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second
offense within a two-year period following the first offense;
         c.   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for the third
offense within a two-year period following the first offense. In addition to
any other penalty, the store’s license to sell tobacco products or nicotine
products or the store’s sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly
engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental may be suspended for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days,
or
         d.   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or
subsequent offense within a two-year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other penalty, the store’s license to sell tobacco products or
nicotine products or the store’s sales tax permit for a store that is
predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of other
products is merely incidental may be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty
(60) days.
      2.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of the violation if such person proves that:
         a.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product,
nicotine product or vapor product presented a driver license or other
government-issued photo identification purporting to establish that such
individual was twenty-one (21) years of age or older, or
         b.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
   Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person
cited for a violation of this section if the person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver license or other government-issued photo identification
was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense
described in this subsection does not affect the availability of any other
defense under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 344, 10-11-2023)
5-3-3: DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT AND VAPOR PRODUCT SAMPLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute, tobacco
products, nicotine products, vapor products or product samples to any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   No person shall distribute tobacco products, nicotine products, vapor
products or product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that
is within three hundred (300) feet of any playground, school, or other facility
when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age.
   C.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsections A or B of this section, the total of
any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   Not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second offense;
and
      3.   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for a third or
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 344, 10-11-2023)
5-3-4: PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor products in any manner that
allows public access to the tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor
products without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products or an employee or the owner of the store.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to retail stores which do not
admit into the store people under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 344, 10-11-2023)
5-3-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any conviction for a violation of this Article and any compliance
checks by a municipal police officer pursuant to subsection C of this section
shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission within thirty (30) days of such conviction or compliance check. Such
reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
Convictions shall be reported by the Court Clerk, or his/her designee and
compliance checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police or his designee.
   B.   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the municipality and reported to the ABLE Commission,
shall be considered together in such determination.
   C.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
Police Department to assist in compliance checks and enforcement of this
Article pursuant to the rules of the ABLE Commission.
(Ord. 344, 10-11-2023)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Vaccination Required
5-4-3: Tax; Registration
5-4-4: Tag And Collar
5-4-5: Animals At Large; Impoundment; Redemption
5-4-6: Rabies Control; Confinement Of Animals
5-4-7: Vicious Dogs
5-4-8: Animal Pound
5-4-9: Keeping Certain Animals; Permit And Requirements
5-4-10: Domestic Animals Other Than Dogs And Cats
5-4-11: Animals Biting Persons; Procedure
5-4-12: Kennels And Pet Shops
5-4-13: Pasturing Animals In Public Areas
5-4-14: Swine Restricted
5-4-15: Exotic Animals; Reptiles
5-4-16: Leashing Animals At City Request
5-4-17: Indecent Exhibition Of Animals
5-4-18: Noise, Disturbances By Animals
5-4-19: Building And Premises Requirements
5-4-20: Cruelty To Animals; Other Regulations
5-4-21: Penalty
5-4-22: Keeping Certain Animals Prohibited
5-4-23: Animal Control Officers
5-4-24: Tampering With Animal Control Traps
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed in this section, except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, swine, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or any other animal or fowl.
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of, or occupied by, the owner of the animal, and not under the control
of the owner, a member of his immediate family twelve (12) years of age or
older, or an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise.
OWNER: Any person, firm, or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal.
The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains,
or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more, is
deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any person without
undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls at and acts as if it
intends to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons, when not unduly
provoked. (1980 Code § 3-1)
5-4-2: VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Annual Vaccination Required: The owner of every dog and cat shall have
the animal vaccinated for the prevention of rabies by a licensed veterinarian
annually (or as directed by the veterinarian if using a multiyear vaccine)
prior to applying for a cat or dog license or by the time the cat or dog has
reached the age of six (6) months. If vaccinated using a multiyear vaccine, the
veterinarian shall so indicate on the certificate of vaccination.
   B.   Certificate Furnished: The veterinarian vaccinating a dog or cat shall
furnish the owner a certificate of vaccination which shall include a
description of the animal vaccinated and shall so indicate if a multiyear
vaccine is used along with the date of the next recommended vaccination. (Ord.
253, 7-14-2008)
5-4-3: TAX; REGISTRATION:
   A.   Tax Levied: A tax of five dollars ($5.00) per year for every spayed or
neutered dog or cat and twenty dollars ($20.00) for every unaltered dog or cat
of more than six (6) months of age is hereby levied upon the owner of every dog
or cat kept or harbored within the city of Drumright. (Ord. 253, 7-14-2008)
   B.   Exceptions: The fee provisions of subsection A of this section shall
not apply to: (2002 Code)
      1.   Dogs and cats only temporarily brought and kept within the city, nor
to a dog brought within the city to participate in a dog show. (2002 Code; amd.
Ord. 253, 7-14-2008)
      2.   Seeing eye dogs properly trained to assist blind persons if such
dogs are actually being used by blind persons to assist them in moving from
place to place.
      3.   Hearing dogs properly trained to assist deaf persons if such dogs
are actually used by deaf persons to aid them in responding to sounds.
      4.   Dogs especially trained to assist officials of government agencies
in the performance of their duties and which are owned by such agencies.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as to exempt any dog from having
a current rabies vaccination, as required by section
5-4-2 of this chapter. (2002 Code)
   C.   Payment Annually: The owner shall pay such tax to the city clerk for
every calendar year before May 1, or upon acquiring after that day any dog or
cat within the city upon which the tax has not been paid for the year in which
acquired or upon bringing a dog or cat into the city after that day. (1980 Code
§ 3-15; amd. Ord. 253, 7-14-2008)
   D.   Rabies Vaccination Certificate: Before the city clerk accepts payment
for the tax on a dog or cat or issues a license for such dog or cat, the person
offering the tax shall present to the city clerk the certificate of vaccination
provided by the veterinarian that immunized the animal.
   E.   Registration Information: The owner of a dog or cat shall, at the time
of paying the tax, register the animal by providing to the city clerk the name
and address of the owner, the name of the animal, its breed and/or markings,
color and sex of the animal and such other reasonable information as the city
clerk may request. (Ord. 253, 7-14-2008)
   F.   Issue Receipt And Tag: The city clerk thereupon shall deliver an
original receipt to the taxpayer, and also an appropriate tag for the dog. Such
tag shall constitute a license for the dog. (1980 Code § 3-15)
5-4-4: TAG AND COLLAR:
   A.   Tag Placed On Collar; Lost Tags:
      1.   The owner shall cause the tag received from the city clerk to be
affixed to the collar of the dog upon which the tax has been paid so that the
tag can easily be seen by officers of the city; and the owner shall see that
the tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
      2.   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to the city clerk,
presenting to him the original receipt, and paying to him a fee of fifty cents
($0.50). (1980 Code § 3-16)
   B.   Counterfeiting Tags; Placing On Other Dogs: No person shall
counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued for a dog as provided in
this chapter, or take from any dog a tag legally placed upon it, or place such
tag upon a dog for which the tag was not specifically issued. (1980 Code § 3-
17)
5-4-5: ANIMALS AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT; REDEMPTION:
   A.   Dogs And Cats:
      1.   Running At Large Prohibited; Restraint:
         a.   From and after the effective date hereof, dogs and cats, whether
licensed or unlicensed, shall not be permitted to run upon the streets, public
places, or public ways of the city or upon the property of persons other than
the owners, but shall be confined to the property or premises of the owners of
such dogs and cats.
         b.   Dogs and cats may be permitted upon such streets, places or
public ways and off of the premises of the owners of such animals, if securely
restrained by such owner or person having the charge and control thereof, with
a substantial leash or chain not to exceed eight feet (8') in length. (1980
Code § 3-18)
      2.   Impoundment; Notice; Redemption:
         a.   Unlicensed dogs or cats caught at large in the city shall be
impounded and held for three (3) days only, and, unless reclaimed by the owner
thereof, may be destroyed by humane means by a licensed veterinarian or an
authorized animal control officer. As the animals are unlicensed, no means of
contacting an owner exists. However, should a responsible person appear and
claim the animal, it may be released under the following conditions:
The person claiming the dog or cat agrees to have the animal vaccinated for
rabies or produces proof that the animal has in fact been vaccinated within the
past twelve (12) months and purchases a tag as provided for in section
5-4-4 of this chapter. These provisions shall not apply to a person claiming an
animal but residing outside the city of Drumright. In this case, a claimant
must pay a reclamation fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) to the city clerk prior
to obtaining the animal.
         b.   Licensed dogs or cats caught at large in the city shall be
impounded and held for seven (7) days. Unless reclaimed by the owner thereof,
the animal may be humanely destroyed or adopted out after expiration of the
seven (7) day holding period. The first reclamation shall be at no charge, but
each subsequent reclamation of the same animal shall be charged a fee of thirty
dollars ($30.00) plus ten dollars ($10.00) per day that the animal is held for
feeding and care. If an animal is wearing a tag when captured and impounded,
the animal control officer shall give notice to the owner by phone or by mail
at the address reflected on the registration to claim the animal. If not so
reclaimed before the expiration of the seven (7) day holding period, the animal
may be destroyed by humane means or adopted out. (Ord. 277, 9-13-2010)
   B.   Animals And Fowl: No owner shall permit any animal (including fowl)
owned, harbored, or kept by him to be at large within the city, and it is
unlawful for any animal to be at large at any time within the city. (1980 Code
§ 3-2)
   C.   Turning Animals At Large Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to
open any enclosure in which any animal is confined as required by ordinance so
as to turn such animal at large, or in any manner to turn such animal at large.
(1980 Code § 3-3)
5-4-6: RABIES CONTROL; CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS 1 :
   A.   Animal Suspected Of Contracting Rabies:
      1.   Any dog or other animal suspected of being rabid or of having been
bitten by a rabid animal may be confined by order of the health officer and in
the manner and for the time ordered by him, to determine whether the animal is
rabid.
      2.   If a person has been bitten or if there is good reason to believe
that a person has been otherwise infected by such animal, the health officer
may have the animal put to death in a humane manner and have it examined by
medical authority to determine whether it has rabies. (1980 Code § 3-13)
   B.   Order Confinement:
      1.   Order By Resolution; Epidemic:
         a.   When the health officer determines and certifies that a dog, a
cat or other animal in the city or within five (5) miles of the city is or was
infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the city, the
board of commissioners, by resolution, may order all dogs to be confined, and
if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of time to be
determined by the board.
         b.   Such resolution or an adequate notice of its passage shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city and shall go
into effect on the day following such publication unless the resolution
prescribes a later time.
      2.   Compliance With Resolution Required: While such resolution is in
effect, it is unlawful for any owner to permit a dog or cat to be at large in
violation of such resolution, or for any such dog or cat to be at large in
violation thereof. (1980 Code § 3-19)
   C.   Killing Rabid Dog: Any person may kill a dog if the appearance or
conduct of which is such as would cause an ordinarily prudent person to believe
the dog to be afflicted with rabies. (1980 Code § 3-21)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-4-11 of this chapter.
5-4-7: VICIOUS DOGS:
Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without undue provocation, bites him or the other dog, or attacks or
attempts to bite or attack him or the other dog in such manner that an
ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward whom
the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed. (1980 Code § 3-20)
5-4-8: ANIMAL POUND:
   A.   Animal Pound: The animal pound of the city of Drumright is hereby
established and operated by the animal control division of the city of
Drumright. The pound shall be under the control of the animal control officer
who shall provide proper feeding and humane care for the animals in his
custody. (Ord. 277, 9-13-2010)
   B.   Breaking Into Pound: No unauthorized person shall break or attempt to
break open the pound, or take or let out any animal therefrom, or take or
attempt to take from any officer or employee of the city any animal taken into
custody, as provided by ordinance, or in any manner interfere with or hinder
such officer or employee in the discharge of his duties relating to the taking
into custody and impounding of animals, as provided in this chapter. (1980 Code
§ 3-24; amd. Ord. 253, 7-14-2008; Ord. 277, 9-13-2010)
5-4-9: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; PERMIT AND REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Definitions: When in this section the following terms are used, they
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows:
    ANIMALS OR POULTRY: As specifically named herein, by whatever other names
they might be called, include every age and sex of each of the herein named
species of animals or poultry.
   HEALTH OFFICER: The director of the county health department or his
authorized agent 2 .
   KEEPER OR PERSON: Includes any individual, firm or corporation.
   PERMIT: Is any permit granted by the city clerk.
   PERSON: Includes any individual, firm or corporation.
   RATPROOF: A state of being constructed so as to effectively prevent entry of
rats.
   SANITARY: Any condition of good order and cleanliness, which precludes the
probability of disease transmission. (1980 Code § 3-39)
   B.   Permit Required: It is and shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to keep, own, maintain, use or have in their possession any
rabbits, hares, guinea pigs, horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep,
swine, chinchillas, chickens, turkeys, guineas, geese, ducks, or pigeons
(except homing pigeons) within the corporate limits of the city, except that
rabbits, hares, guinea pigs, horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep,
chinchillas, chickens, turkeys, guineas, geese, ducks, or pigeons may be kept
under the conditions hereinafter set forth, provided a permit be first obtained
as hereinafter provided. (1980 Code § 3-35)
   C.   Application For Permit; Fee; Conditions:
      1.   Application; Fee: Permits, as hereinafter referred to and required
to be had as a prerequisite to the keeping, owning, maintaining, using or
having in their possession any rabbits, hares, guinea pigs, horses, mules,
donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep, chinchillas, chickens, turkeys, guineas, geese,
ducks or pigeons, may be obtained by written application and compliance with
the sanitary requirements as set forth herein, by filing a written application
with the city clerk and paying to the city clerk a permit fee of five dollars
($5.00). Agricultural zoned areas over five (5) acres are excluded from this
provision.
      2.   Conditions For Issuance: The application shall affirmatively show
that the applicant has facilities for keeping such animals or poultry in
quarters meeting the standards set out herein, which will define the exterior
limits of any dwelling resided in by anyone, other than the applicant, unless
such other dwelling is owned by the applicant.
      3.   Limitation On Number Of Animals Kept: In nonagricultural areas, no
permit shall be issued or be valid if issued for the permitting and/or keeping
within the city a combined total of more than two (2) of the following: horses,
donkeys, mules, cattle, goats and sheep, including all hoofed animals, except
those controlled by the state wildlife department.
   D.   Term Of Permit: Each such permit, unless sooner revoked, shall be valid
and effective for not more than twelve (12) months from the date of issuance
thereof. (1980 Code § 3-36; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Requirements For Keeping: Upon the obtaining of such permit from the
city clerk, as provided in subsection D of this section, every keeper shall
observe the following practices:
      1.   Distance From Adjoining Property 3 : The distance between the
exterior limits of the place where horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, or
sheep are kept and the exterior limits of the nearest dwelling occupied by any
person other than the applicant, owner, or permit holder, shall not be less
than one hundred feet (100'), unless such other dwelling is owned by the
applicant.
      2.   Maintenance Of Enclosure:
         a.   Every keeper of any of said animals or poultry shall confine the
same in an enclosure sufficient to prevent their running at large.
         b.   Such enclosure shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times and an approved insecticide shall be used as often as
deemed necessary by the health officer.
      3.   Shelter And Drainage Required: Every keeper shall provide shelter or
area of a size sufficient to be conducive to good sanitation practices and he
shall provide adequate and sanitary drainage for the shelter or area.
      4.   Disposal Of Litter And Droppings:
         a.   Every keeper of any of said animals or poultry shall cause the
litter and droppings therefrom to be collected daily in a container or
receptacle of such type that when closed is ratproof and flytight and after
each such collection shall cause such container or receptacle to be kept
closed.
         b.   At least twice each week, each such keeper shall cause all litter
and droppings so collected to be disposed of in a way as not to permit the
presence of fly larvae.
      5.   Storage Of Feed: Every keeper of any of said animals or poultry
shall cause all feed provided therefor to be stored and kept in a ratproof,
flytight building, box, container or receptacle.
      6.   Inspection: The premises shall be subject to inspection by the city
health officer or any of his representatives at any reasonable hour of the day.
(1980 Code § 3-37)
      7.   Failure To Comply; Denial Or Revocation Of Permit:
         a.   The failure of any keeper of any of said animals or poultry to
comply with the provisions of this section, or the sanitation standards and
requirements established by the animal control officer shall be cause for the
city clerk to refuse to grant a permit for the keeping of such animals or
poultry; or, if the permit shall have been previously granted to such keeper,
shall be cause for the revocation of the same.
         b.   The decision of the health officer shall be subject to review by
the commission if the applicant feels nongranting of a permit or revocation of
a permit to be unjustified. (1980 Code § 3-37; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Laboratories, Institutions And Veterinarian Hospitals: When the
application is for the keeping of animals or poultry within the limited number
herein set forth in medical laboratories and/or educational institutions for
medical research, or veterinarian hospitals for treatment, or in pet shops for
resale, they shall be kept under the same conditions prescribed by this
section, for such limited purposes without the necessity of compliance with the
distance and structural requirements herein otherwise set forth. (1980 Code §
3-38)
   G.   Provisions Cumulative: Subsections A through F of this section shall be
cumulative of all other sanitary ordinances or regulations of the city, unless
in conflict with the terms of said ordinances and regulations, in which case
the terms of said subsections shall prevail. (1980 Code § 3-40)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-4-10 of this chapter.
2 2. See section
  1-7H-1 of this code.
3 1. See also subsection
  5-4-10B1 of this chapter.
5-4-10: DOMESTIC ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS 1 :
   A.   Applicability: Subject to the provisions of the zoning ordinance, it
shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his possession
any animals or fowl, domestic or wild, large or small, except as herein
provided. It is and shall be unlawful for any person to keep, own, maintain or
have in his possession any animals or fowl, domesticated or wild, large or
small, within the corporate limits of the city, except that domestic animals or
fowl, large or small, may be kept under the conditions hereinafter set forth,
provided a permit is first obtained as hereinafter provided. This section shall
not apply to the keeping of dogs as set out in this chapter.
   B.   Area, Enclosure, Location 2 :
      1.   Large Animals, Except Swine: Horses, mules, donkeys, goats, sheep,
cattle and other similarly sized large animals, except swine, may not be kept
on any parcel of land containing less than five thousand (5,000) square feet in
area for the first large animal; provided one additional large animal may be
quartered for each additional two thousand (2,000) square feet of area in
excess of the first five thousand (5,000) square feet. Said large animals shall
be confined in an enclosure, provided such enclosure prevents them from being
quartered within one hundred feet (100') of the exterior limits of a church,
business, school or residence other than that of the owner.
      2.   Small Animals, Except Dogs And Cats:
         a.   Ducks, geese, chickens, hamsters, chinchillas, guineas, pigeons
and other similarly sized small animals or fowl, except dogs and cats, or any
combination of twelve (12) or more such animals or fowl, may not be kept on any
parcel of land containing less than two thousand (2,000) square feet in area;
provided twelve (12) or fewer additional small animals or fowl may be quartered
for each additional one thousand (1,000) square feet of area in excess of the
first two thousand feet (2,000'). Such small animals or fowl shall be confined
in an enclosure, provided such enclosure prevents the small animals or fowl
from being quartered within forty feet (40') of the exterior limits of a
church, school, business or residence other than that of the owner.
         b.   It is unlawful for any person to confine any wild or domestic
fowl or birds, unless provisions are made by each person for the proper feeding
and the furnishing of water to such fowl or birds at intervals not longer than
twelve (12) hours. No person shall impound any wild or domestic fowl or birds
in a crate, box or other enclosure, which crate, box or other enclosure does
not permit each fowl or bird impounded therein to stand in a naturally erect
position and make normal postural adjustments.
   C.   Fence Requirements: Any owner of any animal or animals who builds a
fence in the city for the purpose of keeping an animal or animals is hereby
required to build such fence so that it will conform to the buildings on the
premises and the immediate surroundings in neatness and appearance. The
enclosure shall be sufficient to prevent the animals from escaping therefrom
and running at large. Fencing shall comply with city ordinance requirements.
   D.   Sanitation Standards:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   It shall be the duty of the holder of any permit provided for in
this section where animals or fowl are kept, to maintain and operate the
housing and premises in such a manner as not to create a health nuisance.
         b.   Each pen or enclosure shall be sprayed with a suitable residual
spray as often as necessary to control flies and other insects.
         c.   It is unlawful to dump or place any manure or other wastes from
such pens or enclosures in the garbage cans serviced by the city, or contract
haulers authorized by the city.
         d.   Exterior limits of animal or fowl enclosures shall be at least
fifty feet (50') from any private water well.
         e.   The failure of any keeper of animals or fowl to comply with the
sanitation standards shall be cause for the revocation of permits.
      2.   Pigeons: The standards of sanitation for the keeping of pigeons as
established by the animal control officer shall be followed.
   E.   Running At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to permit the running
at large of domestic fowl, cattle, hogs, horses, mules, sheep, goats and other
animals within the city.
   F.   Tethering On Right Of Way: It shall be an offense for any person to
tether animals for grazing purposes on any road or street right of way within
the city. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-4-9 of this chapter.
2 2. See also subsection
  5-4-9E1 of this chapter.
5-4-11: ANIMALS BITING PERSONS; PROCEDURE 1 :
   A.   Animal Confined By Veterinarian:
      1.   Whenever the dog, cat or other animal capable of transmitting rabies
shall bite a human being, the owner or person having the custody of such dog,
cat or other animal, upon notification that said animal has bitten said human
being, shall, upon demand of the injured person or parent or guardian,
immediately take such animal into custody and place it in the care of a
licensed veterinarian.
      2.   Such veterinarian shall securely detain such animal for a period not
to exceed fourteen (14) days, to determine whether such animal is in a state
capable of transmitting rabies to its victim.
      3.   The owner of such animal shall pay said veterinarian for its care,
feeding and detention.
      4.   Provided, that if the owner or custodian of such animal cannot be
determined, it shall be the duty of the chief of police, or any police officer
under his direction, to take such animal and deliver it to a licensed
veterinarian for detention, as aforesaid, and the city shall bear the expense
of such detention. (1980 Code § 3-29)
   B.   Release Of Animal:
      1.   In the event the animal is determined by the veterinarian to be
incapable of transmitting rabies to its victims, it shall be released to its
owner or custodian upon payment of the charges for its detention.
      2.   If the owner of such animal is unknown, or the animal is unclaimed
by some person willing to pay the charges for detention, said animal shall be
destroyed at the termination of the period of detention. (1980 Code § 3-30)
   C.   Failure To Detain Animals; Offense: If any person whose duty it is to
have animals detained as herein provided shall fail, refuse or neglect to do
so, such failure, refusal or neglect shall constitute an offense against the
city. (1980 Code § 3-31)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-4-6 of this chapter.
5-4-12: KENNELS AND PET SHOPS:
   A.   Location: No dog kennel or other establishment wherein animals are kept
shall be maintained closer than one hundred feet (100') to any tenement or
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes, or residence other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal
is kept. (1980 Code § 3-9; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Kennel Operation; License Required; Fee:
      1.   Number Of Animals: Any person owning, possessing, keeping or
harboring or allowing to be kept or harbored three (3) or more dogs and/or cats
six (6) months old or older shall be deemed to be operating a private kennel
for such animals.
      2.   Licensing Requirements:
         a.   No person shall operate a private kennel without first obtaining
an annual license to operate the kennel from the city for a fee as set by the
city.
         b.   The fee for the issuance of a kennel license shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00).
         c.   The kennel license shall permit the operation of a kennel within
the city limits for the period of January 1 to December 31, for the year in
which the license is issued.
         d.   The license fee shall not be prorated if issued after January 1
and before December 31.
         e.   A kennel license may be renewed for the above fee, not more than
thirty (30) days prior to January 1.
         f.   A kennel license may be revoked if the licensee fails to comply
with the applicable provisions of this code and state statutes in the operation
of the kennel.
   C.   Maintenance; Inspection: Licensees under this section shall permit the
animal control officer to inspect the premises used as a private kennel.
Private kennels shall be maintained in accordance with the written standards of
the American Humane Society and applicable federal and state laws and
regulations.
   D.   Kennel And Pet Shop Requirements: All pet shops, catteries and kennels
shall:
      1.   Maintain records and retain such records for a two (2) year period
on all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records shall show
breed, color, markings, sex, age, date and source of the animal, period for
which the animal is maintained, date and disposition of the animal (including
name and address of new owner), and disease prevention or treatment and by
whom;
      2.   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate physical
space for each animal, control of parasites, clean food and water, weather
protection and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      3.   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary.
   E.   Rabies Vaccination Required: A kennel owner must show proof of rabies
vaccination on all animals over six (6) months of age when applying for a
license. (2002 Code)
5-4-13: PASTURING ANIMALS IN PUBLIC AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city, or other,
on any railroad right of way, or on any other property, without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property. (1980 Code § 3-4)
5-4-14: SWINE RESTRICTED:
Except as provided in section
5-4-9 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to keep, confine or maintain swine of any size, age or character whatsoever
within the city limits. (1980 Code § 3-5)
5-4-15: EXOTIC ANIMALS; REPTILES 1 :
   A.   Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided, no person shall keep and
maintain, or allow to be maintained any exotic or native wildlife or dangerous
or poisonous reptiles.
   B.   Exception: Persons excepted from subsection A of this section shall be:
      1.   Duly authorized and licensed circuses or educational institutions.
      2.   Agents or employees properly authorized by an educational
institution to keep and maintain that institutions's animals in connection with
any lawful experimental or research program.
      3.   Zoological gardens.
      4.   Zoos which are supervised and publicly maintained. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-4-22 of this chapter.
5-4-16: LEASHING ANIMALS AT CITY REQUEST:
When requested by any proper official, meter reader, police officer, sanitation
worker, or other person whose duty is to enter onto private property, an owner
shall leash or otherwise confine any and all dogs to prevent harm to the person
making a lawful entry on owner's private property. (2002 Code)
5-4-17: INDECENT EXHIBITION OF ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to permit animals to have sexual intercourse in
any place except an enclosed place entirely out of the public view. (1980 Code
§ 3-6)
5-4-18: NOISE, DISTURBANCES BY ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling, or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of any person or persons. (1980 Code § 3-7)
5-4-19: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Buildings Housing Animals:
      1.   Every building wherein any animal is kept within the city shall be
constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept clean and
sanitary at all times.
      2.   Every such building, if located within two hundred feet (200') of
any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and
flytight receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations of
manure. Such receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner
as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered
at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or
refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in
such receptacle. (1980 Code § 3-8)
   B.   Premises Kept Clean: Every structure, pen, lot, or place wherein an
animal is kept, or permitted to be, shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, devoid of rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable odors.
(1980 Code § 3-10)
   C.   Disposition Of Manure: Manure shall be hauled outside the city in a
manner which does not jeopardize the public health, or shall be spread evenly
upon the ground and turned under at once or as soon as the weather permits.
(1980 Code § 3-11)
   D.   Inspection By Health Officer:
      1.   The health officer, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any
structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his own
initiative. He may issue any such reasonable order as he may deem necessary to
the owner of such animal to cause such animal to be kept as provided in this
chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance.
      2.   The health officer may make a complaint before the municipal judge
against any person for violation of any provision of this chapter or of any
such reasonable order; but this shall not abridge the right of others to make
such complaint. (1980 Code § 3-12)
5-4-20: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
    ANIMAL: Any mammal, fowl, fish, reptile or invertebrate, including wild and
domesticated species, other than a human being.
   ANIMAL FACILITY: Any vehicle, building, structure, farm, ranch or other
premises where an animal is kept, handled, transported, housed, exhibited,
bred, offered for sale or used in any lawful scientific test, experiment,
investigation or educational training.
   EFFECTIVE CONSENT: Consent by the owner or a person legally authorized to
act for the owner. Consent is not effective if induced or given by force or
fear; by a person the offender knows is not legally authorized to act for the
owner; by a person who is under the age of eighteen (18); by a person who has a
mental disease or defect; or by a person who is under the influence of drugs or
alcohol and is known by the offender to be unable to make a reasonable and
rational decision.
   OWNER: A person who has title to the property, possession of the property,
or a greater right to possession of any animal or property than another person.
   PERSON: Any individual, agency, corporation, association, nonprofit
corporation or organization, stock company, firm, trust, partnership, or any
other legal entity.
   POSSESSION: Actual care, custody, control or management.
   B.   Prohibited Acts With Regard To Certain Animal Facilities:
      1.   No person shall, without the effective consent of the owner and with
intent to damage any enterprise conducted at that animal facility:
         a.   Damage, destroy or remove an animal facility or any property or
animal in or on the premises of an animal facility;
         b.   Acquire or otherwise exercise control over an animal facility, an
animal or other property from an animal facility, with the intent to deprive
the owner of such facility, animal or property;
         c.   Enter an animal facility, not open to the public, with intent to
commit an act prohibited by this section;
         d.   Enter an animal facility and commit or attempt to commit an act
prohibited by this section;
         e.   Remain concealed in an animal facility, with intent to commit or
attempt to commit an act prohibited by this section;
         f.   Enter or remain on the premises of an animal facility when the
person has notice that entry is forbidden by any of the following:
            (1)   Written or oral communication with the owner or a person with
effective consent to act for the owner;
            (2)   Fencing or other enclosure obviously designed to exclude
intruders and/or contain animals; or
            (3)   A sign or signs posted on the property or at the entrance to
any building on the property advising that unauthorized entry is forbidden;
         g.   Release any animal or animals, with the intent of depriving the
owner of such animal(s).
   C.   Exceptions: The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to
the lawful activities of any governmental agency or employees or agents thereof
carrying out their respective duties under the law.
   D.   Poisoning Cattle: Every person who wilfully administers any poison to
any animal that is the property of another and any person who wilfully exposes
any animal to any poisonous or noxious substance with the intent that the
substance be ingested by the animal shall be guilty of an offense.
   E.   Cruelty To Animals: Any person who shall wilfully or maliciously
overload, torture, destroy or kill an otherwise healthy animal by inhumane
means, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate any animal in subjugation or
captivity, whether wild or tame, whether belonging to himself or to another or
who shall deprive such animal of necessary food, drink or shelter, or who shall
cause or permit any such animal to be so treated or who shall wilfully
instigate, engage in, or in any way assist or further any act of cruelty to any
animal, or any act tending to produce cruelty, shall be guilty of an offense.
Any officer finding an animal maltreated or abused shall cause the same to be
taken care of, and the charges therefor shall be a lien upon such animal, to be
collected thereon as upon a pledge or lien from the owner.
   F.   Abandoned Animals; Manner Of Destruction:
      1.   Any person owning or having care, custody or control of a maimed,
diseased, disabled or infirm animal who abandons said animal or allows said
animal to lie in a public street, road, or public place for more than one hour
after said person receives notification by a duly authorized person that the
animal is disabled or dead, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense.
      2.   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or agent of any humane
organization organized for the purpose of preventing cruelty to animals may
destroy or cause to be destroyed in a humane manner any animal which is found
abandoned and not being properly attended to and, in his judgment, is mortally
wounded or injured. For purposes of this section, the term "abandon" or
"abandoned" means the voluntary relinquishment of an animal with no intention
to retain possession and shall include, but shall not be limited to, vacating a
premises and leaving the animal in or at the premises, or failing to feed and
provide water to the animal or allowing it to wander onto other persons'
property or public property with no intent of maintaining ownership or custody
over said animal.
      3.   When any person is arrested and, at the time, is in custody of any
animal or any vehicle drawn by or containing any animal, the arresting officer
may take custody of the animal or deliver the animal or have it delivered to an
animal control officer or the appropriate humane agency which shall assume
custody of the animal. All necessary expenses related to care of the animal
shall be a lien on the animal, to be collected upon as upon a pledge or lien
before releasing said animal to its owner.
   G.   Animals In Transit: Any person who carries or causes to be carried in
or upon any vessel or vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhumane
manner or so as to produce torture is guilty of an offense.
   H.   Abandonment: Abandoning of domestic animals along streets or highways
or in any public place is prohibited. Any person who deposits any live cat, dog
or other domestic animal along or upon any private or public street, or
roadway, or in any other private or public place with the intention of
abandoning the animal shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense. (Ord.
254, 9-8-2008)
   I.   Tethering Of Animals:
      1.   Any person who shall tether by any means with a chain or cable or
rope any animal where the animal is unable to reach food and water and/or where
the animal cannot walk, run or in any manner move a distance of at least ten
feet (10'), and/or where the animal does not have available appropriate shelter
from the elements at all times shall be guilty of an offense.
      2.   Any person who shall by any means tether an animal for more than ten
(10) continuous and/or consecutive hours shall be guilty of an offense.
      3.   Any person who tethers an animal from one hour after sunset until
one hour before sunrise shall be guilty of an offense, unless granted relief in
writing by the city manager that allows for tethering for a comparable number
of hours due to shift work or other contingencies.
      4.   Any person who shall tether an animal with a chain or cable which is
too heavy for the animal to effectively move about shall be guilty of an
offense.
      5.   Any person who shall tether a dangerous or potentially dangerous
animal with a material which can be chewed off or cut into shall be guilty of
an offense. (Ord. 307, 6-9-2014)
5-4-21: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter, or
who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out, any reasonable order made by
the health officer pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day's violation of any provision of this chapter or
of any such order of the health officer shall constitute a separate offense.
(1980 Code § 3-41; amd. 2002 Code)
5-4-22: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own, or in any way
possess within the corporate limits of the city of Drumright, Oklahoma:
      1.   Any warm blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous wild or exotic animal,
excluding fowl, ferrets, and small rodents of varieties used for laboratory
purposes and excluding any animals maintained by a zoological park.
      2.   Any animal which is capable of inflicting a poisonous bite.
      3.   Any vicious dog kept in an area which is not one hundred percent
(100%) enclosed by secure walls at least seven feet (7') in height and solid,
secure floors of concrete or hardwood at least two inches (2") in thickness or
any structure that would permit the dog to exit the enclosure of its own
volition. In addition, no such dog may be kept in a house or other enclosure
with windows when the windows are open and a screen window or door is the only
obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
   B.   Sign: All owners, keepers or harborers of any vicious dog shall place
or have placed in a prominent place on all sides of an enclosure housing the
vicious dog, a sign, easily readable by the public, which indicates the
presence of a vicious dog.
   C.   Insurance: All owners, keepers or harborers of vicious dogs shall
supply proof of insurance which shall be general liability with a rider
endorsing the coverage for the vicious dog with coverage limits of not less
than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Such insurance policy shall provide
that no cancellation of the policy shall be made without at least ten (10)
days' advance notification to the city of Drumright city clerk.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of
any provision of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. Conviction of any violation involving a vicious dog shall permit the
municipal judge to order the removal of the vicious dog from the city. (Ord.
253, 7-14-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-4-15 of this chapter.
5-4-23: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS:
Animal control officers shall be permitted to issue complaints/citations for
animal control purposes only. The municipal court shall have full authority to
hear and sentence on any and all violations of the law. (Ord. 264, 10-13-2009)
5-4-24: TAMPERING WITH ANIMAL CONTROL TRAPS:
It shall be a violation of this code for any unauthorized person to tamper with
any trap set for the purpose of apprehending animals by any animal control
officer or police officer of the city of Drumright. If convicted of such an
offense, the minimum fine for the first offense shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00). If convicted of any subsequent offense the minimum fine
shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 290, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 5
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-5-1: Policy
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Unlawful Practice
5-5-4: Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-5-5: Financing Of Housing
5-5-6: Brokerage Services
5-5-7: Exemptions
5-5-8: Administration And Enforcement
5-5-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the city. (1980 Code § 4-60)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under sections
5-5-4,
5-5-5 and
5-5-6 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon on any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (1980 Code §
4-61)
5-5-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
5-5-7 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in section
5-5-4 of this chapter shall apply to:
   A.   Dwellings: All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Exemptions: Nothing in section
5-5-4 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses at any one time. Provided further, that in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month
period. Provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not
own any interest nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf under any express
or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time. Provided further, that the sale or rental of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only
if such house is sold or rented:
         a.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such facilities or
services of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of
any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman, or person; and
         b.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection
5-5-4C of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   C.   Business Of Selling Or Renting: For the purposes of subsection B of
this section, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or
renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (1980 Code § 4-62)
5-5-4: SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
5-5-3 of this chapter, and except as exempted by subsection
5-5-3B and section
5-5-7 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap, or familial status;
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap, or familial status;
   C.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap, or familial
status, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap, or familial status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available; or
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, gender, color,
religion, national origin, age, handicap, or familial status. (1980 Code § 4-
63; amd. 2002 Code)
5-5-5: FINANCING OF HOUSING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age,
handicap, or familial status of such person or of any person associated with
him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes
of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
Nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of
the exception contained in subsection
5-5-3B of this chapter. (1980 Code § 4-64; amd. 2002 Code)
5-5-6: BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap, or
familial status. (1980 Code § 4-65; amd. 2002 Code)
5-5-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association,
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association,
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, gender, color, national origin, age,
handicap or familial status. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members. (1980 Code §
4-66; amd. 2002 Code)
5-5-8: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration:
      1.   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter
shall be in the mayor of the city.
      2.   The mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties, and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties, and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any
work, business, or matter under this chapter. The mayor shall by rule prescribe
such rights of appeal from the decisions of his hearing examiners to other
hearing examiners or to other officers in the city, to boards of officers or to
himself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
      3.   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their
programs and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the mayor to further such purposes. (1980 Code § 4-67)
   B.   Education And Conciliation: Immediately after the enactment of this
chapter, the mayor shall commence such education and conciliatory activities as
will further the purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons
in the housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and
shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance
and of enforcement. (1980 Code § 4-67.1)
   C.   Enforcement:
      1.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain such information and be in such form as the mayor requires.
Upon receipt of such a complaint, the mayor shall furnish a copy of the same to
the person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the
alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after
receiving a complaint, or within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any
period of reference under subsection C3 of this section, the mayor shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether he decides to resolve it. If the mayor decides to resolve the
complaint, he shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged
discriminatory housing practice by informal methods or conference,
conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceedings under this chapter without the written consent of the person
concerned.
      2.   A complaint under subsection C1 of this section shall be filed
within one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing
practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts
upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based.
Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may
file an answer to the complaint against him and with the leave of the mayor,
which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may
amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
      3.   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the
mayor, the mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this
chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, file a
complaint with the secretary of the department of housing and urban
development. The mayor will assist in this filing.
      4.   If the mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within
thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30)
days thereafter, commence a civil action in the appropriate state court,
against the respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or
protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the
complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
      5.   In any proceedings brought pursuant to this action, the complainant
shall procure and pay the fees of his own counsel and the burden of proof shall
be on the complainant.
      6.   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
mayor's office shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance. (1980 Code § 4-67.2)
   D.   Investigations, Subpoenas, Giving Of Evidence:
      1.   In conducting an investigation, the mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals, and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation. Provided
however, that the mayor first complies with the provisions of the fourth
amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel his access to or the production of such materials, or the
appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent to
the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the
subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in
the United States district court for the district in which the investigation is
taking place. The mayor may administer oaths.
      2.   Upon written application to the mayor, a respondent shall be
entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name
of the mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as
subpoenas issued by the mayor himself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a
respondent shall show on their face the name and address of such respondent and
shall state that they were issued at his request.
      3.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
      4.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person,
such person may petition the mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The mayor
shall grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
      5.   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the mayor or
other person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in
the municipal or state court for the district in which the person to whom the
subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts business.
      6.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or
to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other
evidence, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the mayor shall be fined not more than two hundred seven dollars
($207.00) or imprisoned not more than thirty (30) days, or both. Any person
who, with intent thereby to mislead the mayor, shall make or cause to be made
any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or other
document submitted to the mayor pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or
shall wilfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true, and
correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or
shall wilfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary
evidence, shall be fined not more than two hundred seven dollars ($207.00) or
imprisoned not more than thirty (30) days, or both. (1980 Code § 4-67.3)
   E.   Enforcement By Private Persons:
      1.   The rights granted by sections
5-5-3,
5-5-4,
5-5-5 and
5-5-6 of this chapter may be enforced by civil action brought by the
complainant in state courts of general jurisdiction. Complainant shall employ
and pay the fees of his own legal counsel. A civil action shall be commenced
within one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing
practice occurred. Provided however, that the court shall continue such civil
case brought pursuant to this subsection E or subsection C4 of this section
from time to time before bringing it to trial, if the court believes that the
conciliation efforts of the mayor are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in the
complaint made to the mayor and which practice forms the basis for the action
in court. Any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance of
any court order issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a
bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without actual notice of the
existence of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of
this chapter shall not be affected.
      2.   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any
permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order,
and may award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable
attorney fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided that the
plaintiff, in the opinion of the court, is not financially able to assume the
attorney fees. (1980 Code § 4-67.4)
   F.   Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation: It shall be unlawful to coerce,
intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in the exercise or enjoyment
of, or on account of, his having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his
having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of,
any right granted or protected by sections
5-5-3,
5-5-4,
5-5-5 and
5-5-6 of this chapter. This subsection may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (1980 Code § 4-67.5)
   G.   Prevention Of Intimidation: Whoever, whether or not acting under color
of law, by force, or threat of force, wilfully injures, intimidates or
interferes with, or attempts to injure, intimidate or interfere with:
      1.   Any person because of his race, gender, color, religion, national
origin, age, handicap or familial status and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
      2.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
         a.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, gender,
color, religion, national origin, age, handicap, or familial status, in any of
the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection
G1 of this section;
         b.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
      3.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, gender,
color, religion, national origin, age, handicap, familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection G1 of
this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be fined as provided in
section
1-10-16 of this code, plus costs. (1980 Code § 4-67.6; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Alarm User Response Choice
5-6-4: First Response Certificate Issuance
5-6-5: First Response Certificate Renewal
5-6-6: Intrusion Alarm Dispatch Request
5-6-7: Liability
5-6-8: First Response Certificate Cancellation
5-6-9: Exclusions
5-6-1: PURPOSE:
Our purpose is to encourage residential and commercial alarm users to assume
increased responsibility for maintaining the mechanical reliability and the
proper use of intrusion alarm systems, to prevent unnecessary police responses
to false alarms and protect the city's emergency response capability.
This chapter draws a distinction between police response to requests by
individual persons and police response to requests made by mechanical devices.
It is the policy of the Drumright police department to respond to valid
requests for service. However many requests for service to mechanical
activations are not valid and the resident does not want the police to respond.
(Ord. 314, 4-13-2015)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms which are not defined in this chapter shall have their ordinarily
accepted meanings or such as the context may imply.
When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future tense, words in plural include the singular and words in the
singular include the plural. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
directory.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given below:
ALARM INDUSTRY BUSINESS: Any entity having obtained a license pursuant to the
provisions of the alarm industry act of the state of Oklahoma who sells,
leases, maintains, services, repairs, alters, replaces, moves, installs or
monitors any intrusion alarm system.
ALARM SITE: A single premises or location served by a single intrusion alarm
system.
CERTIFICATE: A valid first response certificate that is not under suspension or
revocation.
CERTIFICATE YEAR: One year from the date of issuance of a first response
certificate.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The duly appointed or acting chief of police of the city of
Drumright or his authorized representative.
COMMERCIAL ALARM USER: Shall mean and include the person or persons, over the
age of eighteen (18) owning, leasing, or managing the commercial property where
an alarm system is located.
DURESS ALARM: A silent alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a
device intended to signal a crisis situation requiring police response.
FALSE ALARM DISPATCH: An intrusion alarm dispatch request when the responding
officer finds no evidence of criminal activity after having completed an
investigation of the location. An intrusion alarm dispatch request that is
canceled by the alarm user or the alarm industry business prior to the time an
officer reaches the location shall not be considered a false alarm dispatch.
Any intrusion alarm response that is first designated as a false alarm dispatch
but where the alarm user later shows convincing evidence of criminal activity
and files a police report, shall, subject to the judgment of the police chief,
be amended to not be recorded as a false alarm dispatch.
FIRST RESPONSE: The police receive an intrusion alarm dispatch request and
elect to provide intrusion alarm response.
FIRST RESPONSE CERTIFICATE: A certificate issued to an alarm user who has met
all requirements of this chapter. Issuance shall not create any property right
in the renewal, reinstatement or continued unsuspended or unrevoked status of a
certificate.
HOLDUP ALARM: A silent alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a
device intended to signal a robbery in progress.
INTRUSION ALARM DISPATCH REQUEST: A notification to the police of the city of
Drumright from an alarm industry business that an intrusion alarm system has
activated.
INTRUSION ALARM RESPONSE: An actual police response to the location of an
intrusion alarm system resulting from an intrusion alarm dispatch request.
INTRUSION ALARM SYSTEM: Any single assembly of equipment, mechanical or
electrical, arranged to signal the occurrence of an entry or attempted entry
into the area protected by the system. A single intrusion alarm system shall be
contained at one physical address and able to be activated independently of any
other system.
This definition shall not apply to: duress alarms, vehicle alarms, any alarm
designed to alert only the inhabitants of a premises that does not have a
sounding device that can be heard on the exterior of the premises, or personal
alarms.
MONITORING: The process by which an alarm industry business receives signals
from intrusion alarm systems and relays an intrusion alarm dispatch request to
the city of Drumright for the purpose of summoning police response to the alarm
site.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
POLICE: Any or all sworn officers of the city of Drumright police department.
RESIDENTIAL ALARM USER: Shall mean and include the person or persons, over the
age of eighteen (18), owning or leasing the residential property where an
intrusion alarm system is located.
SECONDARY RESPONSE: The police receive an intrusion alarm dispatch request but
elect not to provide intrusion alarm response until after the alarm industry
business has provided its own alarm response to the alarm site and has
determined evidence of actual or attempted criminal activity.
VERIFY: An attempt by an alarm industry business to contact the alarm site by
telephonic or other electronic means, whether or not actual contact with a
person is made, prior to an intrusion alarm dispatch request, in an attempt to
avoid a false alarm dispatch. (Ord. 314, 4-13-2015)
5-6-3: ALARM USER RESPONSE CHOICE:
At the inception of this chapter or following the installation of an intrusion
alarm system, every residential or commercial alarm user shall be responsible
for choosing to request the police provide first response or secondary response
to their intrusion alarm system. Should a person elect the police to act as
secondary response, the residential or commercial alarm user shall not be
required to obtain a certificate or comply with any further provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 314, 4-13-2015)
5-6-4: FIRST RESPONSE CERTIFICATE ISSUANCE:
   A.   A residential alarm user may obtain a first response certificate by
payment of a thirty five dollar ($35.00) fee and demonstrating the following
qualifications to the satisfaction of the police chief:
      1.   That the residential alarm user has been trained in the use of their
intrusion alarm system by their alarm industry business representative;
      2.   That a set of written operating instructions for the intrusion alarm
system, including written guidelines on how to avoid false intrusion alarms, is
available at the alarm site;
      3.   That the residential alarm user has not had any first response
certificate issued in their name revoked within the previous twelve (12) month
period preceding the application date;
      4.   That there are no other active certificates issued for that
residence.
   B.   A commercial alarm user may obtain a first response certificate by
payment of a seventy five dollar ($75.00) fee and demonstrating the following
qualifications to the satisfaction of the alarm certificate administrator:
      1.   That the commercial alarm user has been trained in the use of their
intrusion alarm system by their alarm industry business representative;
      2.   That a set of written operating instructions for the intrusion alarm
system, including written guidelines on how to avoid false intrusion alarms, is
available at the alarm site;
      3.   That the commercial alarm user has not had any first response
certificate issued in their name revoked within the previous twelve (12) month
period preceding the application date;
      4.   That there are no other active certificates issued for that
commercial property.
   C.   Each certificate application must include the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone numbers of the alarm user(s);
      2.   The name, address and telephone numbers of other persons who may be
contacted concerning the intrusion alarm system;
      3.   The business name of where the intrusion alarm system is located, if
it is a commercial location;
      4.   The name, Oklahoma alarm industry license number, business address
and telephone number of the alarm industry business performing the monitoring
service.
   D.   Any false statement made by an applicant for the purpose of obtaining
an alarm certificate shall be sufficient cause for refusal to issue a
certificate or for the immediate revocation of an already issued certificate.
   E.   A first response certificate shall not be transferable to any other
residential or commercial alarm user or alarm site.
   F.   Each certificate shall expire one year from the date of issuance. (Ord.
314, 4-13-2015)
5-6-5: FIRST RESPONSE CERTIFICATE RENEWAL:
   A.   On the expiration date or up to thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration date, if the residential or commercial alarm user continues to meet
the requirements of section
5-6-4 of this chapter, a first response certificate may be renewed upon the
submission of an updated application and the payment of a renewal fee. The
renewal fee shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00) for a residential alarm user
and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a commercial alarm user. A first response
certificate that is not renewed within ninety (90) days after its expiration
shall not be renewed. (Ord. 314, 4-13-2015)
5-6-6: INTRUSION ALARM DISPATCH REQUEST:
   A.   When an intrusion alarm dispatch request is made, it will first be
determined if the alarm site has a valid first response certificate. In the
event the alarm site does not have a certificate, the alarm industry business
will be immediately notified that the police will be the secondary response for
this intrusion alarm dispatch request.
   B.   The police will provide intrusion alarm response as soon as practical
to all calls for service when the alarm user holds a certificate. The
responding officer will respond to the alarm site and investigate whether the
alarm dispatch request was due to criminal activity or a false alarm dispatch.
The results of this investigation shall be reported back to the police chief
for recording and follow up. When the investigation indicates a false alarm
dispatch, the responding officer shall, in every instance it is feasible, leave
a written notification of the false alarm dispatch. (Ord. 314, 4-13-2015)
5-6-7: LIABILITY:
The city of Drumright, its elected officials, officers, employees and agents
shall not be liable for any loss or claim resulting from any failure to respond
to an alarm site or the failure to investigate whether an intrusion alarm
dispatch request was due to criminal activity or a false alarm dispatch. This
chapter shall create absolutely no duty or liability upon the city of
Drumright, its elected officials, officers, employees and agents. (Ord. 314, 4-
13-2015)
5-6-8: FIRST RESPONSE CERTIFICATE CANCELLATION:
   A.   Every false alarm dispatch to an alarm site where a residential or
commercial alarm user holds a first response certificate shall be tracked
individually. Any residential or commercial alarm user who accumulates two (2)
or more false alarm dispatches at one alarm site within their certificate year
shall have their first response certificate for that alarm site canceled.
   B.   No cancellation under the provisions of this section shall be effective
until the police chief shall mail, by first class U.S. mail, a notice of
cancellation to the residential or commercial alarm user. The notice of
cancellation shall inform the residential or commercial alarm user of the right
to appeal the validity of the cancellation. The notice of cancellation shall
inform the residential or commercial alarm user that his or her certificate
shall be canceled effective ten (10) days from the date of determination by the
police chief unless an appeal has been made.
   C.   Upon cancellation, any residential or commercial alarm user may submit
application to the city of Drumright for a new first response alarm
certificate.
   D.   The police chief shall have the authority to determine whether a first
response certificate shall be issued, canceled, or renewed. Appeals may be
filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days from the date of determination
by the police chief. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from. The city manager will approve or disapprove all appeals.
Further appeal to the city commission may be filed with the city clerk within
ten (10) days from the date of determination by the city manager. The city
commission's determination is final. (Ord. 314, 4-13-2015)
5-6-9: EXCLUSIONS:
No provision within this chapter shall be construed as to apply to duress or
holdup alarms, manually activated buttons or robbery alarm systems that elicit
an immediate police response to their activation.
No provision within this chapter shall be construed as to apply to any
building, structure or facility owned, controlled or occupied by the United
States Of America, the state of Oklahoma or any governmental subdivision of the
state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 314, 4-13-2015)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Police And Fire Department Duties
6-1-3: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
6-1-4: Obedience To Regulations
6-1-5: Persons Propelling Pushcarts; Riding Or Driving Animals
6-1-6: Use Of Coasters, Skates, Similar Devices
6-1-7: Persons Working On Streets; Exceptions
6-1-8: Maintenance And Construction Zones
6-1-9: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-1-10: Accidents
6-1-11: Following Fire Apparatus
6-1-12: Crossing Fire Hose
6-1-13: Obstructing Street Or Highway
6-1-14: Tampering With Motor Vehicles
6-1-15: Funeral And Other Processions
6-1-16: Driving On Sidewalk
6-1-17: Controlled Access
6-1-18: Driving Through Safety Zone
6-1-19: Unlawful Turning
6-1-20: Starting Parked Vehicle
6-1-21: Limitations On Backing
6-1-22: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
6-1-23: Motorcycles; Motor Scooters
6-1-24: Obstructing Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
6-1-25: Clinging To Vehicles
6-1-26: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
6-1-27: Unlawful Riding
6-1-28: Dangerous Objects In Streets
6-1-29: Official Inspection Sticker Required (Rep. by Ord. 275, 8-9-2010)
6-1-30: Mail Vehicles Exempted
6-1-31: Child Passenger Restraints Required
6-1-32: Offenses; Complaints
6-1-33: Penalty
6-1-34: Low Speed Vehicles
6-1-35: Vehicle Release Fee
6-1-36: Vehicle Security Regulations
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles,
and ambulances.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than twenty inches (20")
in diameter.
BOULEVARD: Such streets as shall be designated by the police as having the
right of way over intersecting streets.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on either side of a
street or highway for a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is
occupied by buildings designed for and used for business.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
CROSSWALK:
   A.   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
CURB: The boundary of any street or roadway.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
FIRE LANE: Any street set aside by the police department to be kept clear of
parked vehicles for the convenience of the fire department in answering fire
alarms.
FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
HIGHWAY OR STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel. The words "highway" and "street" are synonymous
herein.
INTERSECTION:
   A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines; or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
(2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles; or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
city.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, barricades, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic.
OFFICIAL WARNING AND DIRECTION SIGNS AND SIGNALS: All warning and direction
signs and signals not inconsistent with the terms of this title heretofore or
hereafter placed or erected under the provisions of this title by authority of
the police.
OPERATOR: Any person who is in actual physical control of any vehicle.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers.
PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or corporation.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The chief of police and all police officers.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the city police department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violation of
traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails except streetcars.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein refers to
any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
SAFETY ZONE OR ISLAND: An area or space officially set apart within a roadway
for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone or island.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
STREET: Every way set apart for public travel except alleys, alleyways, bridle
paths and footpaths.
THROUGH HIGHWAY: Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicle traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right of way to
vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including, any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter of a mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1980 Code § 20-1)
6-1-2: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT DUTIES:
   A.   Police Enforcement Of Traffic Laws: It shall be the duty of the police
department to enforce the street traffic regulations of the city and all of the
state vehicle laws, including 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-101 et seq.,
applicable to street traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to
cooperate with the other officers of the city in developing ways and means to
improve traffic conditions.
   B.   Direct Traffic: Officers of the police department or such officers as
are assigned by the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances;
provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite
traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may
direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the
traffic laws and ordinances.
   C.   Fire Department Assist Police: Officers of the fire department, when at
the scene of a fire or other emergency, may direct or assist the police in
directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity. (1980 Code § 20-2)
6-1-3: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   City Authority: The city commission, by motion or resolution, is hereby
empowered to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the
city and to make temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain
in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   Testing Traffic Control Devices: The city commission may have traffic
control devices tested under actual conditions of traffic. (1980 Code § 20-3)
6-1-4: OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS:
   A.   Required Obedience: It is an offense against the city for any person to
do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title. (1980
Code § 20-4)
   B.   Obedience To City Officials: No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer or fire
department official. (1980 Code § 20-5)
   C.   Obedience By Public Officers And Employees: The provisions of this
title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the service
of the United States government, any state, county, city or other governmental
unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles; and it is unlawful for any such
driver to violate any of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise
permitted in this title or by state statutes. (1980 Code § 20-8)
6-1-5: PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS; RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(1980 Code § 20-6)
6-1-6: USE OF COASTERS, SKATES, SIMILAR DEVICES:
   A.   Restrictions: No person shall operate, ride upon, or propel any
coaster, toy vehicle, off road vehicle, roller skates, scooters, in-line
skates, or skateboards, or any similar device, whether motorized or not, upon
or over any of the following places:
      1.   On any roadway within the city except while crossing a street in a
designated and marked crosswalk;
      2.   On any sidewalk or street abutting a business within the city,
including, but not limited to, parking areas and sidewalks used for ingress and
egress to any place of business;
      3.   On any public property where signage is posted prohibiting such use;
      4.   On any private property where signage is posted prohibiting such
use;
      5.   In any concrete or asphalt drainageways, storm sewers, or culverts.
(Ord. 240, 8-5-2003)
   B.   Play Streets: This section shall not apply upon any street while set
aside as a play street as authorized by ordinance of this city. (1980 Code §
20-7; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be
punished by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 240, 8-5-2003)
6-1-7: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except those
relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not apply to
persons, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in work upon
the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment
while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair of public
utilities; provided, that all highway and public utility operations shall be
protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagmen; but the
provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work. (1980 Code § 20-9; amd. 2002 Code)
6-1-8: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Close Street: City personnel or contractors, while
repairing or improving the streets of the city, and city personnel and utility
companies when installing, improving, or repairing lines or other utility
facilities in the streets, are hereby authorized as necessary, subject to
control by the city commission, to close any street or section thereof to
traffic during such repair, maintenance or construction; and in exercising such
authority, shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   Obedience To Street Closure; Exceptions: When any street has been
closed to traffic under the provisions of subsection A of this section and
traffic control devices or barricades have been erected, it is unlawful for any
person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or around such traffic control
devices or barricades or otherwise to enter the closed area; except that the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such
construction, maintenance and repair, or to persons entering therein for the
protection of lives or property; provided, that persons having their places of
residence or places of business within the closed area may travel, when
possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Compliance With Signs And Signals: Whenever construction, repair or
maintenance of any street or utility line or facility is being performed under
traffic, the city personnel, contractor or utility company concerned shall
erect or cause to be erected, traffic control devices to warn and guide the
public; and every person using such street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flagmen or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area. (1980 Code § 20-10)
6-1-9: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Drivers Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions herein stated.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limit so long as he does not endanger
life or property; and
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specific directions.
      3.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible
and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red
light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      4.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1980 Code §
20-11)
   B.   Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this state or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      2.   This subsection shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway. (1980 Code § 20-12)
   C.   Notification Of Runs By Emergency Vehicles: It is unlawful for any
person to drive on the streets of the city any emergency vehicle, including,
but not limited to, police patrol cars, fire trucks, ambulances, sheriff's
cars, highway patrol cars and police motorcycles, while sounding a siren, horn,
bell or other noise making device designed to forewarn the populace of the
approach of such vehicle, without first advising the police department by
contacting the police dispatcher on duty of his intention to make an emergency
run and giving the name of the person making the run, the destination and the
route which they intend to travel and the nature of the emergency. (1980 Code §
20-151)
6-1-10: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duty To Give Information: Every driver of a motor vehicle, after
participating in or causing an accident by collision or otherwise, or injuring
any person or property, shall forthwith stop and give his name and address, the
name and address of each occupant of the motor vehicle driven by himself, and
the number of his vehicle, to any person demanding the same, and, after
affording every reasonable assistance to the injured person or animal, report
the accident forthwith to the police. (1980 Code § 20-13)
   B.   Report To Police: The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person,
or in which it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or other property is in
excess of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report
such accident to a police officer or to the police department. Making out a
written report of the accident in the office of the police department as soon
as practicable after the accident to be forwarded to the department of public
safety of the state, in accordance with law, shall also be deemed compliance
with this section. (1980 Code § 20-14)
6-1-11: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1980 Code § 20-82)
6-1-12: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the fire department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the fire department official in command.
(1980 Code § 20-83)
6-1-13: OBSTRUCTING STREET OR HIGHWAY:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to place or leave any
vehicle of any kind upon the public highway, street or alley within the
corporate limits of the city so as to hinder or obstruct the free use of such
highway, street, alley or thoroughfare. Provided, that nothing herein contained
shall prevent the proper use of any vehicle upon or along the public highways,
streets or alleys of the city as provided by the city ordinances. (1980 Code §
20-84)
6-1-14: TAMPERING WITH MOTOR VEHICLES:
No person shall, without the consent of the owner or the person in charge of a
motor vehicle, change the position of the levers, switches or other parts of
said motor vehicle or in any way use, occupy, injure, deface, scratch, cut,
tamper with or molest any motor vehicle. Provided that this section shall not
apply in case of moving or starting of a motor vehicle by police or peace
officers for lawful purposes nor by members of the fire department, in case of
emergency in the vicinity of a fire, nor the changing of the position of said
motor vehicle temporarily without starting the motor of the same, by anyone for
the purpose of extracting or removing another vehicle from a congested
position. (1980 Code § 20-85)
6-1-15: FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Procession: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this title. This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers. (1980 Code § 20-86)
   B.   Drivers In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe. (1980 Code
§ 20-87)
   C.   Funeral Processions Identified: A funeral composed of a procession of
vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such other method as
may be determined and designated by the police department. (1980 Code § 20-88)
   D.   Permit Required For Parades: No funeral procession or parade containing
two hundred (200) or more persons or fifty (50) or more vehicles, except the
military forces of the United States and the military forces of this state,
shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a
permit issued by the chief of police and such other regulations as are set
forth herein which may apply. (1980 Code § 20-89)
6-1-16: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or within any sidewalk
area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (1980 Code § 20-90)
6-1-17: CONTROLLED ACCESS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(1980 Code § 20-97)
6-1-18: DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE:
No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island. (1980 Code § 20-101)
6-1-19: UNLAWFUL TURNING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful, from and after the effective date hereof, for any
driver of an automobile or other vehicle to turn such a vehicle around so as to
proceed in the opposite direction at any point on any designated state or
federal highway within the limits of the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful, from and after the effective date hereof, for the
driver of any automobile or other vehicle traveling upon any designated state
or federal highway within the limits of the city to turn such vehicle around so
as to proceed in the opposite direction by driving such automobile or vehicle
off such highway onto public or private property or driveways and driving back
onto said highway, and proceeding in the opposite direction; provided, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to the drivers of automobiles or
vehicles stopping at private property under their ownership or in their
possession or stopping at their place of business or employment or stopping to
do business at a place of business along said highway. (1980 Code § 20-105)
6-1-20: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
   A.   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
   B.   It is unlawful to make a fast or accelerated start from a stop in such
manner as to create loud noises or to perform what is commonly referred to as
"burning rubber". (1980 Code § 20-91)
6-1-21: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic. (1980
Code § 20-92)
6-1-22: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (1980 Code § 20-93)
6-1-23: MOTORCYCLES; MOTOR SCOOTERS 1 :
   A.   Riding Restrictions: Any person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter
or a motor bicycle shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person nor shall any other
person ride on the vehicle unless it is designed to carry more than one person,
in which event a passenger may ride only upon the permanent and regular seat if
designed for two (2) persons or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear
or side of the operator. (1980 Code § 20-94; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Operation Of Motor Scooters: It is unlawful for any person to operate a
motor driven cycle, including a motor scooter or motor driven bicycle, on a
street in the city during a time when state law prohibits the operation of such
vehicle. (1980 Code § 20-103)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 9 of this title.
6-1-24: OBSTRUCTING DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   Obstructing View: No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded
or when there are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three
(3), as to obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle
or as to interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the
vehicle.
   B.   Interference With Driver: No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such
position as to interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to
interfere with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1980
Code § 20-95)
6-1-25: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, rollerblades, in-
line skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any
vehicle upon a roadway. (1980 Code § 20-96; amd. 2002 Code)
6-1-26: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1980 Code § 20-98)
6-1-27: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1980 Code § 20-99)
6-1-28: DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed, or let fall and
remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick or
other thing which is likely to injure persons or damage property or to render a
street unsafe for traffic. (1980 Code § 20-102)
6-1-29: OFFICIAL INSPECTION STICKER REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 275, 8-9-2010)
6-1-30: MAIL VEHICLES EXEMPTED:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent the vehicles of the United
States postal department, while engaged in the business of said department, or
the duly authorized and licensed operators of such vehicles in pursuance of
their duties under said department, from:
   A.   Double parking such vehicles while engaged in collecting and delivering
U.S. mail.
   B.   Leaving the vehicle while the motor is running in a double parked
condition without a licensed operator therein.
   C.   Using areas designated as "loading zones" and "taxi zones" for the
collection and delivery of the U.S. mail.
   D.   Leaving the vehicle parked in an alley where less than ten feet (10')
of alley width remains for the use of through traffic.
   E.   The use of designated passenger loading zones; however, such exemptions
shall apply only for the purpose of momentary stops for mail pickup and
delivery and shall not permit the use of such areas for the general mail
delivery. (1980 Code § 20-106)
6-1-31: CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Duty Of Driver: Every driver when transporting a child under four (4)
years of age weighing sixty (60) pounds or less in a motor vehicle operated on
the roadways, streets, or highways of the city shall provide for the protection
of the child by properly using a child passenger restraint system. For purposes
of this section, "child passenger restraint system" means an infant or child
passenger restraint system that meets the federal standards as set by 49 CFR
section 571.213.
   B.   Use Of Restraint: Children at least four (4) years of age but younger
than thirteen (13) years of age shall be protected by use of a child passenger
restraint system or a seatbelt. (1980 Code § 20-166; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      3.   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seatbelts in the vehicle are in
use; and
      4.   The transportation of children who, for medical reasons, are unable
to be placed in such devices.
   D.   Warning By Law Enforcement Officer: A law enforcement officer is hereby
authorized to stop a vehicle if it appears that the driver of the vehicle has
violated the provisions of this section and to give an oral warning to the
driver. The warning shall advise the driver of the possible danger to children
resulting from the failure to install or use a child passenger restraint system
or seatbelts in the motor vehicle.
   E.   Penalty Imposed: Any person convicted of violating subsection A or B of
this section shall be punished by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00) and shall pay
a maximum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) court costs in the case. This fine shall
be suspended in the case of the first offense upon proof of purchase, or
acquisition by loan, of a child passenger restraint system. (1980 Code § 20-
166; amd. 2002 Code)
6-1-32: OFFENSES; COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Unlawful Activities:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to do any act
forbidden, or to fail to perform any act required, in this title.
      2.   It is unlawful for a parent of a child or the guardian of a ward to
authorize or knowingly to permit any such child or ward to violate any
provision of this title.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to authorize or
knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his or its name to be driven or
to stand or to be parked in violation of any provisions of this title. (1980
Code § 20-160)
   B.   Eluding Peace Officer: Any operator of a motor vehicle who has received
a visual and audible signal, a red light and a siren, from a police officer
driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an official
police, sheriff, or highway patrol car, directing the operator to bring his
vehicle to a stop, and who wilfully increases his speed or extinguishes his
lights in an attempt to elude such police officer or wilfully attempts in any
other manner to elude the police officer, or who does elude such police officer
within the city, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 20-161)
   C.   Citation Tags:
      1.   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or,
in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of
this title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citation tags, among other things, shall indicate
briefly the charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and
shall direct the violator to present the tag at the police station or other
designated place within five (5) days or such other reasonable time as may be
specified thereon. Nothing in this section shall abridge the power to arrest
any violator and to take him into custody, or to file a complaint against him,
at any time.
      2.   The city manager may require that the police officers use citation
tags furnished by the city clerk and that such tags be serially numbered, and
may regulate the use and handling of citation tags. (1980 Code § 20-162)
   D.   Failure To Comply With Citation Tags: If a violator of any provision of
this title who has been given a citation tag, as provided in subsection C of
this section, fails to appear in accordance with the instructions on such tag,
the chief of police or his authorized agent shall send to the owner of the
vehicle involved a letter or other written notice informing him of the
violation and warning him to appear as directed and that, in the event such
letter or notice is disregarded for a period of ten (10) days, a complaint will
be filed and warrant of arrest issued; provided, that nothing in this section
shall abridge the power to file a complaint against him prior to the expiration
of such time. (1980 Code § 20-163)
   E.   Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking:
      1.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
      2.   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
of giving a citation tag has been followed. (1980 Code § 20-164)
   F.   Failure To Comply With Citation; Issuance Of Warrant: In the event any
person fails to comply with a citation tag given to such person or attached to
a vehicle, the chief of police shall have a complaint entered against such
person before the municipal judge, and the municipal judge shall issue a
warrant for his arrest. (1980 Code § 20-165)
6-1-33: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this title, or
performs any unlawful act as defined in this title, or fails to perform any act
required in this title, is guilty of an offense against the city and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's continuation of any such violation shall be a
separate offense. (1980 Code § 20-167; amd. 2002 Code)
6-1-34: LOW SPEED VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Golf carts and all-terrain vehicles are hereby permitted to operate on
the residential streets of the city of Drumright where the posted speed limit
is twenty five (25) miles per hour or less, but may not be operated on state
highways within the city of Drumright, except to make a crossing of the state
highway at an intersection of a city street with a state highway. Golf carts
and all-terrain vehicles crossing a state highway must cross in the shortest
possible manner from one side of the state highway to the other side.
   B.   Golf carts and all-terrain vehicles operated on city streets shall be
equipped with the following: headlamps, taillamps, reflectors or reflector tape
on each side and the rear, a mirror mounted so that the driver can monitor
traffic to his rear, a parking brake and a windshield that conforms to the
federal motor vehicle safety standards. The windshield must be in the up
position when operated on city streets.
   C.   Operation of golf carts and all-terrain vehicles on city streets is
limited to daylight hours only and shall not be operated during rain, snow, ice
or other hazardous conditions.
   D.   All operators of golf carts and all-terrain vehicles on city streets
must be holders of a valid driver's license. (Ord. 275, 8-9-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  6-9-3B of this title.
6-1-35: VEHICLE RELEASE FEE:
   A.   Vehicles shall be stored and held safely until written order for its
release, signed by an authorized officer of the city, has been issued. Motor
vehicles impounded for the following reasons shall require that such order of
release be conditioned on the payment of an impound fee in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00) by the person to whom the release is issued:
      1.   Where the motor vehicle has an evidentiary value, has directly or
indirectly been involved in the commission of a crime, has been used to
transport any person who has committed any offense involving the use of a
firearm, or is directly or indirectly associated with a drive-by shooting;
      2.   When a police officer effects the arrest and removal of the owner or
operator of a vehicle from the vehicle;
      3.   When the vehicle bears a license plate that has expired for a period
in excess of ninety (90) days, bears a license plate that has been altered or
tampered with or bears a temporary tag issued more than thirty (30) days prior
to the impoundment, or bears no license plate that would be in conformance with
the Oklahoma vehicle license act 1 ; or
      4.   When the person operating the vehicle on public streets or public
property is driving under a suspended or revoked driver's license or is
operating a vehicle with an invalid driver's license or no driver's license.
   B.   This impound fee shall be independent of any fines, costs or fees that
may be assessed from citations issued to any person for violation of traffic
laws or other ordinance violations involving the impounded vehicle and in
addition to any fees owed to the towing service for the impoundment and
storage. The chief of police is hereby authorized to adopt procedures
consistent with this section to implement this process. (Ord. 305, 2-10-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 1101 et seq.
6-1-36: VEHICLE SECURITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Failure To Comply With Compulsory Insurance Law: The state of Oklahoma
by statute states that an owner or operator who fails to comply with the
compulsory insurance law, or who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department of public safety upon request of any peace officer,
representative of the department of public safety or other authorized person,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine
of not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), or imprisonment for not
more than thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, and in
addition thereto, shall be subject to suspension of the driving privilege of
the person; and
   B.   Citations:
      1.   In accordance with Oklahoma state statutes, upon issuing a citation
for failing to maintain security or failing to provide proof of security the
law enforcement officer issuing the citation may seize the vehicle being
operated by the person and cause the vehicle to be towed and stored, if the
officer has probable cause to believe that the vehicle is not insured as
required by the compulsory insurance law of this state, or the law enforcement
officer may seize the license plate of the vehicle and issue the citation to
the vehicle operator, provided that the vehicle is in a drivable condition at
the time of issuing the citation.
      2.   A copy of the citation retained by the owner or operator of the
vehicle shall serve as the temporary license plate of the vehicle for up to ten
(10) working days after the issuance of the citation. After ten (10) working
days, the vehicle shall not be used until the vehicle operator or owner
completes the requirements to retrieve the license plate.
      3.   After the issuance of the citation, the law enforcement agency
issuing the citation shall, within three (3) days, deposit the license plate
and deliver a copy of the citation to the county sheriff's office of the county
where the violation has occurred. (Ord. 306, 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Authority To Install
6-2-2: Manual And Specifications
6-2-3: Obedience To Devices
6-2-4: Signs Required For Enforcement Purposes
6-2-5: Traffic Control Signal Legend
6-2-6: Pedestrian Control Signals
6-2-7: Flashing Signals
6-2-8: Pedestrian Actuated School Crossing Signals
6-2-9: Display Of Unauthorized Signals
6-2-10: Interference With Official Devices
6-2-11: Play Streets
6-2-12: Crosswalks And Safety Zones
6-2-13: Traffic Lanes
6-2-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL:
The city manager shall have placed and maintained traffic control signs,
signals and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the
city to make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may have placed
and maintained such additional traffic control signs, signals and devices as
may be deemed necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the
city or under state law or to guide or warn traffic. (1980 Code § 20-27)
6-2-2: MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS:
All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the state highway department. All signs and signals
required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be
uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or
this title shall be official traffic control devices. (1980 Code § 20-28)
6-2-3: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this title or law, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (1980 Code § 20-29)
6-2-4: SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (1980 Code § 20-30)
6-2-5: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the words
"Go", "Caution", or "Stop", or exhibiting different colored lights successively
one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used, and the
terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Green Alone Or "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign or barricade at such place prohibits either
such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or "Stop"
signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
   C.   Steady Red Alone, Or "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone, or, while the signal is still red, vehicular traffic may turn
right from the appropriate lane after coming to the required stop, unless
otherwise provided by the city in which the signal is located, or unless
hereinafter provided. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to
pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully
using the intersection.
      2.   In order to prohibit right turns on the red signal after the
required stop, a city must erect clear, concise signs informing drivers that
such turns are prohibited. The highway department shall specify the design of
the sign to be used for this purpose and it shall be used uniformly throughout
the state.
      3.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   D.   Steady Red With Green Arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone or until authorized so to do by pedestrian "Walk"
signal.
   E.   Exceptions: In the event an official traffic control signal is erected
and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made; but, in the absence of
any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal. (1980 Code §
20-31)
6-2-6: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Wait" or "Don't Walk" are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   A.   Walk: Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   B.   Wait Or Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the wait signal is showing. (1980 Code § 20-32)
6-2-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (1980 Code §
20-33)
6-2-8: PEDESTRIAN ACTUATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS:
Whenever a pedestrian actuated school crossing signal is provided, it requires
obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Flashing Yellow:
      1.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution.
      2.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
actuate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or "Stop" signal is exhibited.
      2.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   C.   Steady Red:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then before
passing the signal or entering the intersection and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone.
      2.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   D.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone.
      2.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the right
of way by the drivers of all vehicles. (1980 Code § 20-34)
6-2-9: DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which
projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   B.   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit
upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   C.   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information and of a
type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance; and the city is hereby empowered to remove
the same without notice. (1980 Code § 20-35)
6-2-10: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL DEVICES:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. (1980 Code § 20-36)
6-2-11: PLAY STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: The city commission, by motion or resolution,
shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to
have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping
to protect the same. (1980 Code § 20-37)
   B.   Restrictions On Use: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street. No person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area, and then any such driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof. (1980 Code §
20-38)
6-2-12: CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The city commission, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized:
   A.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion,
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such
other places as it may deem necessary; and
   B.   To establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1980
Code § 20-39)
6-2-13: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   The city manager is hereby authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon
the roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance. (1980 Code § 20-40)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Driving On Right Side; Passing Vehicles
6-3-2: Speed Regulations
6-3-3: Reckless Driving
6-3-4: Careless Or Negligent Driving
6-3-5: Persons Under Influence Of Liquor Or Drugs
6-3-6: Driver And Vehicle Licenses
6-3-7: Turning Movements; Signals
6-3-8: Texting While Driving
6-3-9: Engine Compression Brake
6-3-1: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE; PASSING VEHICLES:
   A.   Drive On Right Side; Passing Vehicles; Exceptions:
      1.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven
upon the right half of the roadway except as follows:
         a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction under the rules governing such movement.
         b.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
         c.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic
under the rules applicable thereon.
         d.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic
under the rules applicable thereon.
      2.   Upon all roadways, any vehicles proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1980 Code § 20-41)
   B.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Directions: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right; and upon
roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction,
each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main
traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1980 Code § 20-42)
   C.   Overtaking Vehicle On Left: The following rules shall govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible or visual signal and shall not increase the speed
of his vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      3.   All motor vehicles before passing other vehicles from the rear shall
give notice of approach by horn or other signal before passing; provided, that
said vehicle shall be required when signaled to turn to one side and give one-
half (1/2) the roadway. (1980 Code § 20-43; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   When Overtaking On Right Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn.
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement, not occupied
by parked vehicles, of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction.
         c.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (1980 Code § 20-44)
   E.   Driving Left Of Center:
      1.   Passing Vehicle Proceeding In Same Direction: No vehicle shall be
driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side is
clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead
to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
or any vehicle overtaken. In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to
the right hand side of the roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100')
of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
      2.   Places Where View Obstructed:
         a.   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
            (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
            (2)   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or
traversing an intersection or railroad grade crossing.
            (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one
hundred feet (100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
         b.   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(1980 Code § 20-46)
   F.   No Passing Zones:
      1.   The Oklahoma department of highways as regards state and federal
highways, and the city commission as regards all other streets, are hereby
authorized to determine those portions of a highway where overtaking and
passing or driving to the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous,
and shall by appropriate signs or markings on the roadway have the beginning
and end of such zones indicated. When such signs or markings are in place and
clearly visible to an ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle
shall obey the directions thereof.
      2.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone as
set forth in subsection F1 of this section, no driver shall at any time drive
to the left side of the roadway within such no passing zone or on the left side
of any pavement striping designed to mark such no passing zone throughout its
length. (1980 Code § 20-47)
   G.   Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic: Whenever any roadway has been
divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following
rules, in addition to all others consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (1980 Code § 20-48)
   H.   Following Too Closely: The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the
highway. (1980 Code § 20-49)
6-3-2: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Basic Rule: Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the
same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is
reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of
the highway, and any other condition then existing; and no person shall drive
any vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it
to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   B.   Maximum Limits: Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower
speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits specified in
this title or established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful
speeds and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of
such maximum limits as follows:
      1.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour on any street adjacent to any school
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. on days
when school is in session, except as otherwise required by state authority.
      2.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on other streets and on streets
adjacent to schools at other times than that specified immediately above;
provided, that the commission, by motion or resolution, may reduce or increase
this speed limit, and when it does so, appropriate signs shall be placed on
such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or higher speed limit.
(Ord. 324, 12-12-2016)
6-3-3: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in this title. (1980 Code §
20-51)
6-3-4: CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked
or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a manner as
to endanger life, limb, person or property, or as to interfere with the lawful
movement of traffic or use of the streets. (1980 Code § 20-52)
6-3-5: PERSONS UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR OR DRUGS:
It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor
or drugs to drive or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within the
city. (1980 Code § 20-53)
6-3-6: DRIVER AND VEHICLE LICENSES:
   A.   Driver's License Required: It is unlawful for any person who does not
have a driver's license, as required by state law for operation of a motor
vehicle upon the state highways, to operate a motor vehicle within the city.
(1980 Code § 20-54)
   B.   Vehicle License Required: It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any
kind upon a street of the city without a state vehicle license as may be
required by law, or to fail to display the state vehicle license as may be
required by law. (1980 Code § 20-55)
   C.   Allowing Unlicensed Person To Drive: It is unlawful for any person to
authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him, or under his
control, to be driven upon any street in the city by any person who is not
authorized or licensed to drive a motor vehicle under the laws of the state of
Oklahoma or under the laws of the state of the driver's residence. (1980 Code §
20-56)
6-3-7: TURNING MOVEMENTS; SIGNALS:
   A.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a left turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection; and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection.
      3.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle; and after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered. (1980 Code § 20-57)
   B.   Authority To Place And Obedience To Turning Markers:
      1.   The city manager is authorized to have placed markers, buttons or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections; and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or ordinance.
      2.   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications. (1980 Code § 20-58)
   C.   Authority To Place Restricted Turn Signs: The city commission, by
motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall have
placed proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours; in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be
removed when such turns are permitted. (1980 Code § 20-59)
   D.   Obedience To No Turn Signs: Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of any such sign. (1980 Code § 20-60)
   E.   Limitations On Turning Around:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the city except at an
intersection; and furthermore, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to
make such a turn at any intersection:
         a.   Where traffic control signals are installed;
         b.   Where a police officer is directing traffic except at the
latter's direction; or
         c.   Where an official no U-turn sign has been placed and is
maintained.
      2.   When otherwise permitted, a U-turn may be made only when it can be
made in safety and without interfering with other traffic. (1980 Code § 20-61)
   F.   Turning Movements And Required Signals:
      1.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required by ordinance; or turn a
vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a
direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway, unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any
vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided
in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
      2.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
      3.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal. (1980 Code § 20-62)
   G.   Signals By Hand And Arm Or Signal Lamps:
      1.   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either
by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise provided
in subsection G2 of this section.
      2.   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and
required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty four inches (24"), or when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of
the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen feet (14'). The latter measurement
shall apply to any single vehicle and also to any combination of vehicles.
(1980 Code § 20-63)
   H.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein required
given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner, and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1980 Code §
20-64)
6-3-8: TEXTING WHILE DRIVING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway while using a handheld electronic communication device to
manually compose, send or read an electronic text message while the motor
vehicle is in motion.
   B.   Any person who violates the provision of subsection A of this section
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00), excluding costs, fees and assessments.
   C.   The Department of Public Safety shall not record or assess points for
violations of this section on any license holder's traffic record maintained by
the department.
   D.   The provision of subsection A of this section shall not apply if the
person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for
the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an
imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance services;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
      5.   A law enforcement agency.
   E.   For the purpose of this section:
    CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ: With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail. (Ord. 319, 10-13-2015, eff. 11-1-
2015)
6-3-9: ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE:
   A.   Definition: An "engine compression brake device" (commonly referred to
as jake brakes, Jacob's brake engine brake, compression brake, or dynamic
compression brake) means a device primarily on trucks for the conversion of the
engine from an internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose
of reducing vehicle speed without the use of the wheel brakes.
   B.   Prohibited; Exception: No person shall use or operate any vehicle
within the City limits with an engine compression braking device engaged or
activated. Provided, that such prohibition shall not apply if an emergency
situation exists and the use of the engine compression brake is necessary for
the protection of persons or property. Failure to timely apply wheel braking
devices shall not be construed as the creation of an emergency situation.
   C.   Violation: Any person who violates this section, shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) plus cost. (Ord. 330, 8-13-2018)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Parking Prohibited In Designated Places
6-4-2: Method Of Parking
6-4-3: Obstructing Traffic
6-4-4: Business District Alleys
6-4-5: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-4-6: Parking Time Limits
6-4-7: One-Way Roadways
6-4-8: Stopping For Loading And Unloading Only
6-4-9: Impounding Of Vehicles
6-4-10:    Illegal Parking
6-4-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED PLACES:
   A.   Places Designated: No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with law or ordinance or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   Within an intersection.
      3.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the city indicates a different length by signs or markings.
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted. (1980
Code § 20-134; amd. 2002 Code)
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass.
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. (1980 Code §
20-134)
      15.   On Broadway from Jones Street to Curtis Street between the hours of
four o'clock (4:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Tuesday and Thursday
mornings, except when those days are city holidays, to facilitate street
sweeping. (Ord. 268, 12-14-2009)
   B.   State Highway 16:
      1.   Prohibited Parking Area: The stopping or parking of any vehicle on
the west side of Oklahoma State Highway 16 from its intersection with Oklahoma
State Highway 33, south to the southeast corner of the city limits is
prohibited.
      2.   Exception: An exception is granted to police and law enforcement
vehicles, firefighting equipment, and other emergency vehicles and all other
vehicles in an emergency situation.
   C.   Prohibited Act By Driver: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful. (1980 Code § 20-134)
6-4-2: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Except as otherwise provided in this section, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to
and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb; provided, that every
vehicle stopped or parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street where
there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels
parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb. (1980 Code
§ 20-128; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   The board of commissioners, by motion or resolution, may require
parking in a designated area to be at an angle; but no such requirement shall
be effective until such area has been properly marked or signed. Parking in an
angle parking area shall be at an angle of not less than thirty degrees (30°)
nor more than forty five degrees (45°) from the curb, and the right front wheel
of a vehicle so parked shall be as near as is practicable to the curb or edge
of the roadway.
      2.   Angle parking shall not be permitted at any place where passing
traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the
street. (1980 Code § 20-130)
      3.   Obedience To Angle Parking Signs Or Markings: On those streets which
have been signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
such signs or markings. (1980 Code § 20-131)
   C.   Parking In Marked Spaces: In an area where parking spaces have been
marked off on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park
it within a parking space as thus marked off, and not on or over a line
delimiting a space. (1980 Code § 20-132)
   D.   Brakes; Leaving Motor Running: Adequate brakes shall be set on all
parked vehicles. No driver of a motor vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the
motor running while parked. (1980 Code § 20-129)
   E.   Permit For Loading Or Unloading At Angle To Curb:
      1.   The city commission is authorized to issue special permits to permit
the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials, subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permit may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the privilege as
therein stated and authorized herein. The city commission may revoke such
permit at any time.
      2.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of
the special terms or conditions of such permit. (1980 Code § 20-133)
6-4-3: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No person shall park a vehicle within a street in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic; and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within a street in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1980 Code § 20-135)
6-4-4: BUSINESS DISTRICT ALLEYS:
No vehicles shall be parked in any of the alleys in the business district,
except that vehicles may be parked for not to exceed twenty (20) minutes for
the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise. (1980 Code § 20-136)
6-4-5: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying the vehicle for sale.
   B.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things.
   C.   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency. (1980 Code § 20-137)
6-4-6: PARKING TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Authority To Establish:
      1.   The commission, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
establish parking time limits, or to prohibit parking, on designated streets
and parts of streets, by having appropriate signs placed thereon.
      2.   When such signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park
a vehicle in violation thereof. (1980 Code § 20-138)
   B.   Twenty Four Hour Limit; Truck Parking:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle on any street or in any alley for a
period of time longer than twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to park a truck of over one ton
capacity for more than three (3) consecutive hours on any street or alley in a
residential area of the city.
      3.   This section shall not affect parking limits established for shorter
periods. (1980 Code § 20-139)
6-4-7: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS:
In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs or
marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. The city commission, by
motion or resolution, is authorized to determine when standing or parking may
be permitted upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway and to have signs
or marks placed giving notice thereof. (1980 Code § 20-140)
6-4-8: STOPPING FOR LOADING AND UNLOADING ONLY:
   A.   Designation Of Curb Loading Zones:
      1.   The commission, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall
have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and stating
the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable. By the
same authority, such loading zones may be changed or discontinued.
      2.   When such a loading zone is established on request of any person,
the city shall not have signs placed until the applicant has paid to the city
an amount of money established by the city commission to be adequate to
reimburse the city for all costs of establishing and signing the same. (1980
Code § 20-141)
   B.   Standing In Passenger Curb Loading Zone: No person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading
zone are effective and then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
(1980 Code § 20-142)
   C.   Standing In Freight Curb Loading Zone:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading or unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
      2.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone. (1980 Code § 20-143)
   D.   Designation Of Public Carrier Stops And Stands: The commission, by
motion or resolution, is hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops,
bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier motor
vehicles on such public streets in such places and in such number as it
determines to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public; and
every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand, or other stand shall be
designated by appropriate signs. By the same authority, such stops and stands
may be changed or discontinued. (1980 Code § 20-144)
   E.   Buses And Taxicabs:
      1.   Parking Of Buses And Taxicabs:
         a.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided
herein.
         b.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so
designated as provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
         c.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with
the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18")
from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to
unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
         d.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle
upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as
provided herein. This provisions shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab
from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking
regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers. (1980 Code § 20-145)
      2.   Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands: No person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a
taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand has been officially
designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter such zone. (1980 Code § 20-
146)
6-4-9: IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority To Impound Vehicles: Members of the police department are
hereby authorized to remove a vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest
garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or maintained by the
police department, or otherwise maintained by the city, under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated:
      1.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct, or
causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic.
      2.   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is by reason of
physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide for
its custody or removal.
      3.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic. (1980 Code § 20-152)
   B.   Impoundment For Certain Causes: From and after the effective date
hereof, the chief of police shall be and is hereby authorized and directed to
cause the impoundment in any public or private storage yard or place of
vehicles under the following circumstances:
      1.   When such vehicle is parked on private property without the consent
first had and obtained of the owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
private property, and after complaint in written form signed by said owner,
occupant, or person in charge of such property.
      2.   When any such vehicle is found parked in front of, or blocking any
private driveway or public alley.
      3.   When such vehicle is found parked between the curb of a public
street and a private property line, unless permitted under this code.
      4.   When such vehicle has had issued against it three (3) or more
parking tickets, which parking tickets are delinquent and unpaid on the date of
such impoundment. (1980 Code § 20-153)
   C.   Complaint; Fine And Costs:
      1.   Prior to the impoundment of any vehicle found in violation of the
provisions of subsection B of this section, a written complaint shall be signed
by the owner of private property, or the occupant or person in charge thereof,
or by the investigating officer, and said complaint shall be verified by the
city attorney after investigation. Said complaint shall thereafter be filed
with the clerk of the municipal criminal court.
      2.   Upon the payment of the fine hereinafter fixed, either on plea of
guilty or after conviction, and after the payment of any other penalties, and
in particular those required in subsection B of this section, the clerk of said
court shall issue to the owner of any such vehicle a receipt for the payment of
the fine and other penalties lawfully assessed against the owner. (1980 Code §
20-154)
      3.   The owner of said vehicle, upon presentation of the receipt to the
owner or person in charge of the storage yard or place in which said vehicle
has been impounded, shall be entitled to have delivered over to him his vehicle
after the payment of towing and storage charges. (1980 Code § 20-154; amd. 2002
Code)
   D.   Nuisance; Penalty: Any owner of a vehicle found in violation of the
provisions of subsection B of this section shall be deemed guilty of creating a
public nuisance, which said violation is hereby declared to be, and, upon plea
of guilty or conviction therefor, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, which shall be in addition to any other penalties lawfully
assessed against said owner.
(1980 Code § 20-155; amd. 2002 Code)
6-4-10: ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote safe and orderly
parking within the City of Drumright and to deter illegal parking practices
that may hinder traffic flow, create hazards, or impede access to public
spaces.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them:
   ILLEGAL PARKING: Parking a vehicle in a manner that violates the parking
regulations and restrictions as set forth in this section and other applicable
laws.
   C.   Penalties: Any person found guilty of illegal parking within the City
of Drumright shall be subject to a fine of $100.
   D.   Parking Regulations: This section shall work in conjunction with and
supplemental to the provisions set forth in Title 6, Chapter 4 of the Drumright
Code of Ordinances.
   E.   Enforcement: The Drumright Police Department and authorized municipal
officers are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 342, 9-5-2023)
CHAPTER 5
STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS
SECTION:
6-5-1: One-Way Streets And Alleys
6-5-2: Vehicle Approaching Or Entering Intersection
6-5-3: Vehicle Turning Left At Intersection
6-5-4: Through Streets
6-5-5: Other Intersections Where Stop Or Yield Required
6-5-6: Stop Signs And Yield Signs
6-5-7: Vehicle Entering Stop Intersection
6-5-8: Vehicle Entering Yield Intersection
6-5-9: Right Of Way At Intersections
6-5-10: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
6-5-11: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
6-5-12: Railroad Crossings (Rep. by Ord. 275, 8-9-2010)
6-5-13: School Buses; Meeting Or Overtaking
6-5-14: Interference With Firefighters
6-5-15: Truck Routes
6-5-1: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Authority To Designate:
      1.   Whenever the commission, by motion or resolution, designates any
street or alley or part thereof as a one-way street or alley, the city shall
have placed or maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulation
shall be effective unless such signs are in place.
      2.   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (1980 Code § 20-65)
   B.   Movement In Proper Direction: Upon those streets and parts of streets
and in those alleys and parts of alleys so designated as one-way streets and
alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited. (1980 Code
§ 20-66)
   C.   Rotary Traffic Island: A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island
shall be driven only to the right of such island. (1980 Code § 20-67)
6-5-2: VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a
state or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal
highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered
the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
   B.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   C.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A and B of this section
are modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this chapter. (1980
Code § 20-68)
6-5-3: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard; but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this chapter, may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite
direction shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(1980 Code § 20-69)
6-5-4: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   Designation: The commission, by motion or resolution, may designate any
street or part of a street a through street. (1980 Code § 20-70)
   B.   Signs: Whenever the commission so designates and describes a through
street, the city shall have placed and maintained a stop sign, or if deemed
more appropriate at any intersection, a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic control signals; provided, however, that at
the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the intersection of a
through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall
be erected at the approaches of either of said streets as may be determined by
the city commission, if deemed desirable. (1980 Code § 20-71)
6-5-5: OTHER INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED:
The city manager is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections
where particular hazard exists upon other than through streets and to
determine:
   A.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
   B.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection as prescribed in subsection
6-5-2A of this chapter, in which event it shall cause to be erected a yield
sign at every place where obedience thereto is required. (1980 Code § 20-72)
6-5-6: STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS:
   A.   Lettering On Signs: Every stop sign shall bear the word "Stop" in
letters not less than eight inches (8") in height. Every yield sign shall bear
the word "Yield" in letters not less than seven inches (7") in height. Every
stop sign and every yield sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by
internal illumination, or by a floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or
by efficient reflecting elements in the face of the sign.
   B.   Placement Of Signs: Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be
erected as near as practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the intersecting roadway. (1980 Code § 20-
73)
6-5-7: VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION:
   A.   Stopping Vehicle: Except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if none, then at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   B.   Yield Right Of Way: Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the
right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
highway or which is approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but said driver having so yielded may proceed, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the
right of way to the vehicle so proceeding. (1980 Code § 20-74)
6-5-8: VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION:
   A.   Procedure For Yielding: The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign shall, in obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the
existing conditions, or shall stop if necessary and shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
to the vehicle so proceeding; provided however, that if such driver is involved
in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to yield right of way.
   B.   Stopping At Intersection: The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign, if required for safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at
a clearly marked stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic in the
intersecting roadway. (1980 Code § 20-75)
6-5-9: RIGHT OF WAY AT INTERSECTIONS:
Where two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals on two (2) or more intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so
as to enter the intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is required
to stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where
each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have
the right of way. Where each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle
coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where one vehicle is
required to stop and the other to slow or take caution, the one slowing or
taking caution shall have the right of way. Where one vehicle is required to
slow and the other to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have
the right of way. In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the
intersection shall have the right of way over one which has not so entered the
intersection. (1980 Code § 20-76)
6-5-10: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway. (1980 Code § 20-77)
6-5-11: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (1980 Code § 20-78)
6-5-12: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
(Rep. by Ord. 275, 8-9-2010)
6-5-13: SCHOOL BUSES; MEETING OR OVERTAKING:
The driver of a vehicle upon a street within the city, upon meeting or
overtaking from either direction, any school bus which has stopped on or
adjacent to any street for the purpose of receiving or discharging any school
children and other occupants and on which the red loading signals are in
operation, is to stop his vehicle before it reaches the school bus and not
proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed past such
school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for the safety
of such school children and other occupants, and this section shall be
applicable only in the event the school bus shall bear upon the front and rear
thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words "School Bus" in letters not
less than eight inches (8") in height. (1980 Code § 20-80.1)
6-5-14: INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person or operator of any
vehicle whatsoever to drive or park his vehicle in any place as would interfere
with the performance of firefighters on duty at a fire, or a police officer or
ambulance driver at any fire, accident, catastrophe, or any public emergency
whatsoever.
   B.   Pedestrians: It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to interfere with
the work of firefighters, police officers, ambulance drivers, doctors, nurses
or others at the scene of fires, accidents, catastrophes or occurrences of a
public emergency nature. (1980 Code § 20-81)
6-5-15: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The commission, by motion or resolution, may
prescribe routes through the city for the use of trucks in general or trucks of
particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger
vehicles, passing through the city. The city shall see that appropriate and
adequate signs are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles
may follow the routes.
   B.   Trucks To Use Such Routes: When such signs are so erected and in place,
the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed,
as provided above, while passing through the city, shall keep on such route and
shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such
vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving
within the city and not merely through the city.
   C.   Certain Trucks Restricted: Trucks containing more than two (2) axles
are prohibited from parking on residential streets and the movement of such
trucks, where required in residential areas, shall be on secondary and
thoroughfare streets only. Permission for parking and movement of such trucks,
under conditions other than set out herein, must be sought and received from
the chief of police. (1980 Code § 20-147)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT; CONDITION
SECTION:
6-6-1: Vehicles Injurious To Streets
6-6-2: Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles
6-6-3: Equipment Generally
6-6-4: Mufflers; Cutouts
6-6-5: Lights On Vehicles
6-6-6: Horns On Vehicles
6-6-7: Size And Load
6-6-8: License Plates
6-6-9: Inspection Of Vehicles
6-6-1: VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS:
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street. (1980 Code § 20-15)
6-6-2: OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed or so
loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
appropriate officials of the city, and in accordance with the terms of such
permit. (1980 Code § 20-16)
6-6-3: EQUIPMENT GENERALLY:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law; and it is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the
city which is not equipped as required by law. It is also unlawful to fail to
use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner
prohibited by law. It is also unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment
prohibited by law upon a street of the city. (1980 Code § 20-17)
6-6-4: MUFFLERS; CUTOUTS:
No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler; and no muffler cutout or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that exhaust
whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles. (1980 Code § 20-18)
6-6-5: LIGHTS ON VEHICLES:
   A.   Lights Required:
      1.   Headlights And Taillights:
         a.   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor driven cycle
shall be equipped with at least two (2) headlamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this chapter.
         b.   Every motorcycle and every motor driven cycle shall be equipped
with at least one and not more than two (2) headlamps which shall comply with
the requirements and limitations of this chapter.
         c.   Every headlamp upon every motor vehicle, including every
motorcycle and motor driven cycle, shall be located at a height measured from
the center of the headlamp of not more than fifty four inches (54") nor less
than twenty four inches (24") to be measured from the center of such lamp or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is
without a load. (1980 Code § 20-23)
      2.   Time For Using Lights: At any time from one-half (1/2) hour after
sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, every vehicle upon a
highway within the city which is not clearly discernible at a distance of five
hundred feet (500') ahead shall have displayed thereon lighted lamps and
illuminating devices as respectively required for different classes of
vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles. (1980 Code §
20-25; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Glaring Light Prohibited: No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a
glaring light. (1980 Code § 20-24)
6-6-6: HORNS ON VEHICLES:
   A.   Horn Required: Motor vehicles operated in the city shall be equipped
with a horn or other suitable signaling device, kept in good order, which shall
not be sounded except when necessary for traffic signaling or warning.
   B.   Unnecessary Sounding: Unnecessary sounding of any horn or other motor
vehicle signaling device is hereby declared to be an offense and a violation of
this chapter. (1980 Code § 20-26)
6-6-7: SIZE AND LOAD:
No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police. (1980 Code § 20-19)
6-6-8: LICENSE PLATES:
   A.   Required:
      1.   No person shall own or have in his possession within the city after
January 31 of each year any vehicle unless such vehicle shall have the current
distinctive identification and number plates assigned to it by the Oklahoma tax
commission.
      2.   Such plate shall be securely fastened to the vehicle for which
issued, attached to the rear of the vehicle. Both plate and all letters and
numbers must be clearly visible at all times.
      3.   Such plate shall clearly indicate the type and nature of the
operation for which such vehicle shall be used, whether for agricultural
purposes, motor bus, or the transportation of persons for purposes other than
for hire or compensation. (1980 Code § 20-21)
   B.   License Plate Light: Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole
trailer shall have either a taillamp or a separate lamp which shall be so
constructed and placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear
registration plate and render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet
(50') to the rear. Any taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp
for illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be
lighted whenever the head lamps, clearance lamps, or auxiliary driving lamps
are lighted. (1980 Code § 20-22)
6-6-9: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the city at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped and/or whether its equipment is in proper adjustment and
repair. (1980 Code § 20-20)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Compliance With Traffic Control Signals
6-7-2: Crosswalk Use
6-7-3: Crossing At Right Angles
6-7-4: Yield By Pedestrians
6-7-5: Prohibited Crossing
6-7-6: Obedience To Railroad Signals
6-7-7: Walking Along Roadways
6-7-8: Soliciting Rides Or Business
6-7-9: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
6-7-1: COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as declared in this
title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (1980 Code § 20-107)
6-7-2: CROSSWALK USE:
   A.   Right Of Way In Crosswalks:
      1.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
      2.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
      3.   Subsection A1 of this section shall not apply under the conditions
stated in subsection
6-7-4B of this chapter.
      4.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (1980 Code § 20-108)
   B.   Use Right Half Of Crosswalks: Pedestrians shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of crosswalks. (1980 Code § 20-109)
6-7-3: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right
angle to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except in a
crosswalk. (1980 Code § 20-110)
6-7-4: YIELD BY PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in subsection
6-7-2A of this chapter, when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at
certain designated places. (1980 Code § 20-111)
6-7-5: PROHIBITED CROSSING:
Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
(1980 Code § 20-112)
6-7-6: OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD SIGNALS:
No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed. (1980 Code § 20-113)
6-7-7: WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction and
shall yield to approaching vehicles. (1980 Code § 20-114)
6-7-8: SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, donation, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway. (1980 Code § 20-115)
6-7-9: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1980 Code § 20-116)
CHAPTER 8
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Effect Of Regulations
6-8-2: Compliance With Traffic Laws
6-8-3: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
6-8-4: Riding On Bicycles
6-8-5: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
6-8-6: Speed
6-8-7: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
6-8-8: Carrying Articles
6-8-9: Parking
6-8-10: Riding On Sidewalks
6-8-11: Lamps And Other Equipment
6-8-1: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It is an offense for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this chapter.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: The parent of any child and the guardian of
any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to
violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Application Of Regulations: These regulations applicable to bicycles
shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to the exceptions stated
herein. (1980 Code § 20-117)
6-8-2: COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC LAWS:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the traffic ordinances of the city applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this section and except as to those
provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application. (1980 Code § 20-118)
6-8-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs, and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Turning Restrictions: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle
shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person
dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such person
shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1980 Code § 20-119)
6-8-4: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Use Of Seat: A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than
astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   Passengers: No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time
than the number for which it is designed and equipped. (1980 Code § 20-120)
6-8-5: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Right Side Of Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising
due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same
direction.
   B.   Riding Two Abreast: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   C.   Availability Of Path: Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been
provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall
not use the roadway. (1980 Code § 20-121)
6-8-6: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (1980 Code § 20-122)
6-8-7: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching on the roadway. (1980 Code § 20-123)
6-8-8: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars. (1980
Code § 20-124)
6-8-9: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1980 Code § 20-125)
6-8-10: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
The city commission, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have erected,
signs on any sidewalk or roadway, prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by
any person; and when such signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
(1980 Code § 20-126)
6-8-11: LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights Or Reflectors: Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible from all distances from
fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in
front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a
red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1980
Code § 20-127; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MOTORCYCLES
SECTION:
6-9-1: Speed
6-9-2: Equipment
6-9-3: Minibikes, Trail Bikes And Other Vehicles
6-9-1: SPEED:
No person shall operate any motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motor scooter, or
any other similar two (2) or three (3) wheel motor vehicle at a speed greater
than the speed limit provided by ordinance of the city for automobiles or other
motor vehicles, nor at a speed greater than the speed limit regularly posted
for automobiles or other motor vehicles within the corporate limits of the
city. (1980 Code § 20-148)
6-9-2: EQUIPMENT:
The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles and all motor
scooters being operated and driven in the city:
   A.   Rear View Mirrors: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle.
   B.   Windshield: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect the
operator from foreign objects, except that in lieu of such windshield the
operator shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect
him from foreign objects.
   C.   Brakes; Stop Lamp:
      1.   All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and hold such vehicles,
including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes; one means shall be
effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel and one means shall apply the
brakes to the rear wheels.
      2.   All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of
the vehicle, which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade or color
between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred
feet (100') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon
application of the service brake.
   D.   Speedometer: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least the
maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle.
   E.   Fenders: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
a fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer. (1980 Code § 20-149)
   F.   Lights: All vehicles covered under this section shall carry at least
one lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least five
hundred feet (500') in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one
taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from at least five hundred feet (500') to the rear, and such
lights required by this section shall be burning whenever such vehicles are in
motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset and one-half (1/
2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the streets are not
clearly discernible at a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') ahead.
   G.   Headgear: No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall operate or
ride upon any vehicle covered under this section unless such person is equipped
with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design in
compliance with 49 CFR section 571.218. All crash helmets shall consist of
lining, padding and chin straps and be of the type as not to distort the view
of the driver.
   H.   Mufflers: It shall be an offense to operate a vehicle covered under
this section with the exhaust system modified so that motor noise is increased
greater than that of the original muffler equipment provided by the
manufacturer of the vehicle. (1980 Code § 20-149; amd. 2002 Code)
6-9-3: MINIBIKES, TRAIL BIKES AND OTHER VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Prohibited On Streets: Notwithstanding the definitions of the terms
"motor vehicle" and "motorcycle", contained in the state statutes, self-
propelled or motor driven cycles, known and commonly referred to as
"minibikes", "trail bikes" and other similar trade names, shall not be
permitted to be operated on the streets or highways of the city. (1980 Code §
20-150; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Go Carts Prohibited; Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall
also apply to those motor driven or operated vehicles known as "go carts" and
power lawn mowers and other motor vehicles which are manufactured principally
for use off the streets and highways. However, this shall not prohibit
occasional necessary movement of such go carts, power lawn mowers and other
such vehicles on streets, and shall not prohibit the use of minibikes and trail
bikes used by participants in parades. (1980 Code § 20-150; amd. Ord. 275, 8-9-
2010)
   C.   Vehicle Transfers And Sales: Transfers and sales of such vehicles shall
be subject to sales tax and not motor vehicle excise taxes.
   D.   Farm Vehicles Allowed On Streets: Nothing in this section shall be
interpreted as prohibiting farm vehicles from using the streets or highways.
(1980 Code § 20-150)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-34 of this title.
CHAPTER 10
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definitions
6-10-2: Abandonment Of Vehicles
6-10-3: Impoundment; Charges
6-10-4: Disposition Of Vehicles Impounded
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides, and transport
persons or property, or pull machinery, and shall include, without limitation,
automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors. (1980 Code § 20-156)
6-10-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park, leave, or
abandon, or cause to be parked, left or abandoned, any car, truck or other
vehicle which is not then in proper mechanical condition to be normally
operated upon any public street, alley, thoroughfare, or other public property
within the limits of the city. (1980 Code § 20-157)
6-10-3: IMPOUNDMENT; CHARGES:
   A.   Removal: Any car, truck or other vehicle parked, left or abandoned in
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be removed from the place the
same is illegally parked, left or abandoned, to an appropriate place to be
stored until claimed by the owner or person having possession thereof.
   B.   Payment Of Charges: A charge shall be made, as authorized by state
statutes, for the removal of such car, truck or other vehicle and an additional
actual charge per day for storage until such time as all costs of removal and
storage have been paid. (1980 Code § 20-158)
6-10-4: DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES IMPOUNDED:
If any person, firm or corporation owning or having possession of any car,
truck or other vehicle which is seized and moved under the provisions of this
chapter fails to claim said car, truck, or other vehicle within thirty (30)
days from the date the same is seized and removed, and fails to pay the charges
imposed therefor, the city is empowered to sell such car, truck or other
vehicle at public auction, after advertising the same, as provided for in the
foreclosure of liens for repair and storage of vehicles under the statutes of
the state. (1980 Code § 20-159)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Obstructing Streets And Sidewalks
7-1-2: Business Use Prohibited
7-1-3: Sale Of Merchandise On Street And Sidewalk
7-1-4: Building Materials On Streets
7-1-5: Excavations; Permit Required
7-1-6: Removing Street And Sidewalk Materials
7-1-7: Cleaning Streets And Sidewalks
7-1-8: Defacing Sidewalk And Street
7-1-9: Manholes, Gratings Left Open
7-1-10: Cutting Street Or Sidewalk; Permit Required
7-1-11: Congregating On Sidewalk
7-1-12: Condition Of Sidewalk; Maintenance
7-1-13: Moving Certain Vehicles On Streets
7-1-14: Certain Vehicles On Pavement Prohibited
7-1-15: Removal Of Vehicles Causing Damage
7-1-16: Use Of Chains On Trucks
7-1-17: Penalty
7-1-1: OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It shall be an offense for any person to obstruct or
encumber by fence, buildings, boxes, stands, structures or otherwise, or in any
manner to obstruct any of the public highways, streets, alleys, roads, or
sidewalks or crosswalks within the corporate limits of the city; provided, that
nothing herein contained shall prohibit the loading or unloading of any goods
or material whatever without needless delay.
   B.   Removal Of Obstruction: It shall be the duty of the chief of police or
any of his deputies having knowledge of such violation to notify the person so
offending, if he can be found, to immediately remove any such obstruction or
encumbrance placed or made by him upon any public highway, street, alley,
sidewalk, road or crosswalk within the city contrary to the provisions of this
section; and if such person does not immediately remove such obstruction or
encumbrance or if such person cannot immediately be found, then such chief of
police or deputy shall remove such obstruction or encumbrance. (1980 Code § 19-
1)
7-1-2: BUSINESS USE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to
construct, erect, operate, maintain or permit to exist any merchandise,
business or any tools, stand, equipment or appurtenances thereof, any radio,
aerials, poles or wires therefor, whether permanent or temporary, or any other
obstruction, upon any part of any public street, alley, boulevard, parkway,
sidewalk, curbing or parking within the city. (1980 Code § 19-2; amd. 2002
Code)
7-1-3: SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON STREET AND SIDEWALK:
No person shall himself or by his agent use any portion of the street for the
sale or advertising of any merchandise of any kind or character whatsoever.
Such act shall be an offense and be punished accordingly. (1980 Code § 19-3)
7-1-4: BUILDING MATERIALS ON STREETS:
Every person who shall use or occupy any part of the streets or avenues of the
city for building materials shall cause one or more red lights to be kept
burning from sunset to sunrise on the front and at each side in such manner as
to give notice of danger to all possible means of approach, so long as such
material or obstruction remains. Those who fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense. (1980 Code § 19-4)
7-1-5: EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Compliance; Permit:
      1.   No person shall excavate, dig in, alter or change, or interfere with
any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, pavement or other public ground or the
surface thereof, within the limits of the city, for any purpose whatsoever,
unless the provisions of this chapter have been strictly complied with.
      2.   Such person shall first obtain a permit from the city clerk, with
the approval of the street superintendent for such work to be done.
   B.   Bond: It is hereby further required of all persons, in the event of
doing any work as described in this chapter, that they deposit with the city
clerk a cash or surety bond conditioned that he shall replace any such street,
avenue, alley, sidewalk, pavement or other public ground, or the surface
thereof, in the same condition as the same was, prior to the time of the doing
of any work as described in the preceding subsection. The amount of such cash
deposit shall be fixed by the city manager for such sum as may be reasonably
necessary to cover the cost of placing such street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or
other public ground or the surface thereof, in the same condition as it was
prior to the doing of such work.
   C.   Restoration:
      1.   When the provisions of this chapter have been complied with, such
work may be proceeded with. All such excavations made, or trenches or ditches
dug, shall, upon completion of such work, be filled up, firmly tamped and the
surface on such streets, alleys or avenues placed in as durable, smooth and
serviceable condition and in the same condition as it was before such work was
done.
      2.   In the event that the surface of any paved street, avenue or alley
shall have been disturbed by any such work, said pavement shall be replaced
with like material and in all respects in the same condition in which it was
before such work was done.
      3.   All such repairs shall be under the supervision of the street
superintendent or city engineer. (1980 Code § 19-30)
   D.   Guards And Lights Required:
      1.   It is hereby made the duty of any person, during any excavation, to
safely guard the public against any and all accidents liable to occur as a
result of the same, by providing suitable and adequate railings and guard
devices around any such excavation, ditches, or trenches. From sunset to
sunrise, such person shall place a sufficient number of red lights on each side
of such excavations, trenches, or ditches as is necessary to give adequate and
suitable warning of danger. (1980 Code § 19-30; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   All excavations upon the front or side of any lot adjoining the
street, avenue or alley or under any sidewalk in the city shall be securely and
properly guarded and protected by the person having charge of the same, so as
to prevent the same being or becoming dangerous to life or limb. Failure to do
so shall be an offense. (1980 Code § 19-5)
   E.   Supervision Of Work; Use Of Cash Deposit: All such work shall be done
under the supervision of the street superintendent. Said cash bond as provided
for in subsection B of this section, shall be returned, upon performance of the
work as herein required in a reasonable time. The street superintendent shall
utilize such portion of the cash deposit as may be necessary for the purpose of
restoring said places to their former condition.
   F.   Bridge Across Work; Guarding And Lights:
      1.   Any person authorized to do any work described in this chapter must
at the time of the excavation, and until the place is restored to its original
condition, construct and maintain an appropriate bridge across said work for
the passage of pedestrians or travel at all times. (1980 Code § 19-30)
      2.   At night, such persons shall place and maintain a red light on each
side of said bridge to protect the public. Said bridge shall have banisters or
guard rails, if any ditch is left open on either side.
   G.   Lights Along Excavation Parallel To Street: In all cases where the
ditch or excavation runs parallel with the street either to the sidewalk in the
street or a driveway, red lights shall be placed not less than twenty five feet
(25') apart and along said ditch. Said lights shall be maintained from sunset
until sunrise. (1980 Code § 19-30; amd. 2002 Code)
7-1-6: REMOVING STREET AND SIDEWALK MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to injure, remove or
displace any earth, stone, gravel, sand or other material forming a part of any
public highway, street, alley, sidewalk, road or crosswalk within the corporate
limits of the city without permission from the street department to do so.
(1980 Code § 19-6)
7-1-7: CLEANING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Refuse On Sidewalk:
      1.   Requirement: It shall hereafter be unlawful for any property owner,
occupant or agent of any property that abuts or adjoins any street or avenue in
the city to allow or permit any animal or vegetable substance, or any tin,
glass or pieces of iron, or any trash, mud, snow, ice, dirt, slop, refuse
matter or filth of any kind or description whatever to accumulate or remain on
any part of the sidewalk abutting or adjacent to the premises owned or occupied
by such person. (1980 Code § 19-8)
      2.   Failure To Clean After Notice: If any such property owner, occupant
or agent of such property shall fail or refuse to clean off the sidewalk
abutting or adjacent to the property owned or occupied by him within twenty
four (24) hours after notice served on him by any policeman, sanitary officer,
street superintendent, or any other agent of the city, such property owner,
occupant or agent so failing or refusing, after notice so to do, to clean off
such sidewalk shall be deemed guilty of an offense. (1980 Code § 19-9)
   B.   Sweeping Refuse On Sidewalk And Street: It shall hereafter be unlawful
for any person to sweep out or deposit on any of the sidewalks or streets of
the city any dirt, trash or other refuse of any kind, or sweep into the street
any dirt, trash or other refuse of any kind whatever. (1980 Code § 19-10)
7-1-8: DEFACING SIDEWALK AND STREET:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cut, carve, mark,
engrave or inscribe upon any sidewalk, curbing, pavement or other public part
of any street, any sign, mark, advertisement or effigy, other than to show
contractor's nameplate. (1980 Code § 19-11)
7-1-9: MANHOLES, GRATINGS LEFT OPEN:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person in the city to keep open or
leave open any cellar door, manhole or grating of any kind, in or upon any
street or sidewalk, or suffer or permit the same to be left open, except
necessarily open during the use thereof, and during such time the same shall be
properly guarded and protected. (1980 Code § 19-12)
7-1-10: CUTTING STREET OR SIDEWALK; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit And Bond Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to cut, dig, bore, blast, excavate, produce or in any other manner,
make or cause to be made, any hole, opening, ditch, displacement, depression or
impairment of the surface of any street, paving, paving curb, crossing or walk
in any street, alley or sidewalk within the city without first making written
application for a permit so to do on a form prescribed by the city clerk, to be
approved by the city engineer, and first making a cash deposit with the city
clerk in an amount named by him to guarantee the replacement, repair and
restoration thereof to its former condition and also first securing from such
city clerk a written permit therefor.
   B.   Supervision Of Work: Said work, repair, or replacement shall be done
under the supervision and direction of the city engineer or his duly authorized
representative. (1980 Code § 19-13)
7-1-11: CONGREGATING ON SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person or assemblage of persons to
obstruct any sidewalk or passage or any street or alley or any walk or any
public grounds in the city by congregating or in any way assembling therein or
thereon. (1980 Code § 19-14)
7-1-12: CONDITION OF SIDEWALK; MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Unsafe Condition Prohibited: It shall be unlawful and an offense for
any person to permit the sidewalk adjacent to his premises to be or continue in
a broken or unsafe condition so as to endanger life and limb of any person
traveling thereon.
   B.   Notice To Repair; Nonliability Of City 1 : Individual property owners
shall properly maintain all existing sidewalks, and if said property owner does
not so maintain same, then after notice by the city of the existence of defects
therein, the city shall not be liable for any injury to person or property
caused thereby. (1980 Code § 19-15)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-2-1D of this title.
7-1-13: MOVING CERTAIN VEHICLES ON STREETS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No person shall move or cause to be moved over or
upon any of the streets, sidewalks or other public grounds of the city, either
paved or unpaved, any ditching machine, traction engine, or any other heavy
piece of machinery of an extreme or abnormal weight, except as herein provided.
(1980 Code § 19-24)
   B.   Permit Required; Application:
      1.   Before such person shall move any such ditching machine, traction
engine, or other heavy piece of machinery on, or upon or over any of the
streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks or other public grounds, an application
shall be made to the city clerk for a permit to do so.
      2.   Such application shall give all necessary details in connection with
the desired move, the date and exact time of day or night when such move is to
be made, a full description of the route to be traversed during such move, the
exact beginning and ending points and the number or some particular identifying
mark of the piece of machinery so moved.
      3.   The city clerk shall issue a permit to move such machinery in
accordance with this chapter. Such application and permit shall be made on a
form to be supplied by the city and shall be approved by the street
superintendent. (1980 Code § 19-25)
   C.   Manner Of Moving Such Vehicles: If the wheels on any traction engine,
ditching machine, oil well drilling machine, heavy truck, or any other heavy
machine, or vehicle of abnormal or unusually heavy type shall have lugs or
projections on the face of the tires thereof, or if such tires are sufficiently
wide, or are not of such style or construction to prevent the marring or
causing damage to any of the streets, crossings, or paved streets, avenues,
alleys or other public grounds along the route to be traversed, a good and
sufficient plank flooring shall be laid so as to protect the pavement from any
and all damage, and from being marred by any such machine. (1980 Code § 19-26;
amd. 2002 Code)
7-1-14: CERTAIN VEHICLES ON PAVEMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Act: No person shall drive or cause to be driven on any
paved streets or alleys of the city, an automobile from which the rubber tire
has been removed, except that the iron rim thereon shall be perfectly flat and
sufficiently wide not to mar or injure the pavement over which it is driven,
nor shall any person drive or cause to be driven, hauled or dragged, any
vehicle or contrivance of any kind, over or upon, any of the paved streets or
alleys that will in any manner mar or injure such pavement. (1980 Code § 19-27;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Offense: The marring or injuring of pavements in any such manner shall
render the person thereof guilty of an offense and punishable therefor.
   C.   Costs A Lien Against Vehicle: The damage so caused shall be held as a
charge or a lien against the vehicle or contrivance causing such damage, and
against the owner or operator thereof. (1980 Code § 19-27)
7-1-15: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES CAUSING DAMAGE:
No vehicle shall be allowed to remain standing on any of the paved streets or
alleys of the city when the same is causing any injury to the pavement in
excess of the ordinary wear and tear. When such injury is apparent to either
the street superintendent or any other official of the city, such official
shall immediately notify the owner of such vehicle and such vehicle shall be
immediately removed to a point where, in the opinion of such officer, damage
will not occur. (1980 Code § 19-28; amd. 2002 Code)
7-1-16: USE OF CHAINS ON TRUCKS:
The use of chains on automobile trucks rated at over two (2) ton capacity is
prohibited upon any of the paved streets, alleys or other places in the city,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven on any
of the paved streets, alleys or other public places any automobile truck rated
as more than two (2) ton capacity while chains are on the tires of such trucks;
provided, that at such times when the paved streets and alleys are covered with
ice or snow, the use of chains is permitted. (1980 Code § 19-29)
7-1-17: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter, by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when such
provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor; and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 19-55; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION 1
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required For Construction Or Repair
7-2-2: Conditions Of Permit
7-2-3: Supervision; Inspection
7-2-4: Materials Requirements
7-2-5: Construction Specifications
7-2-6: Condemnation Of Sidewalks
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-17 of this title for penalty provisions.
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR:
   A.   Compliance Required: All sidewalk construction and repair on any
street, avenue or alley in the city shall be done subject to and shall strictly
conform in all respects to all provisions set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Permit Required: No person shall build, construct or repair any
sidewalk on any street, avenue or alley in the city without first having
obtained a written permit from the city clerk. The permit shall show the name
of the property owner, the contractor or person who is to do the work, and the
lot and block numbers on which the work is to be done, and the addition or part
of the city in which it is located. (1980 Code § 19-16)
   C.   Offense: Any person who shall build or repair any sidewalk in the city
without first having secured the permit required by ordinance shall be guilty
of an offense and punished accordingly. (1980 Code § 19-19)
   D.   Making Repairs 1 : All sidewalks out of repair shall be repaired with
good material of the same kind and dimensions, and of a quality equal to that
originally used in the construction of said sidewalk, and well laid so as to
correspond with the rest of the sidewalk. Such of the sidewalk, or parts, as
have settled so as to make depression or have become raised above the grade of
the sidewalk shall be replaced on the same grade as the rest of the sidewalk.
(1980 Code § 19-22)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  7-1-12B of this title.
7-2-2: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
All permits issued for sidewalk construction or repair shall be issued on the
condition that the work will be done strictly in accordance with the city
ordinances relating to the same, and all persons having any part or interest in
any sidewalk construction or repair are charged with and bound by the
provisions of this chapter, notwithstanding the same may not be specially set
forth in the permit. (1980 Code § 19-17)
7-2-3: SUPERVISION; INSPECTION:
   A.   Supervision; Certificate Of Approval: All sidewalk construction and
repair work shall be under the direct supervision of the street superintendent
or the city engineer, and it shall be his duty when any construction or repair
work has been completely finished in accordance with the ordinances relating to
the same to issue a certificate of approval, a copy of which shall be filed
with the city clerk. A copy of the said certificate shall be given to the
contractor and a copy to the owner of the property.
   B.   Inspection; Lien Claim: No right of action for work done or labor or
materials supplied on any contract for sidewalk construction or repair shall
arise nor shall any materialman's or laborer's lien be held to be established
until the inspector has approved the work and issued and delivered his
certificate of approval to the person claiming such rights or lien.
   C.   Completion Of Work; Issuance Of Certificate: The certificate herein
mentioned shall be issued only after the completion of the work and shall
certify that the work and materials in all respects comply with the city
ordinances. (1980 Code § 19-18)
7-2-4: MATERIALS REQUIREMENTS:
Sidewalks constructed in any street, avenue, alley or public ground in the city
shall be constructed either of concrete, or other material subject to the
approval of the city engineer. All materials shall be as follows:
   A.   No aggregate, either fine or coarse, shall be used containing frost or
lumps of frozen material.
   B.   Fine aggregate shall consist of natural sand with coarse grains
predominating. Fine aggregate, when dry, shall pass a screen having four (4)
meshes per lineal inch; not more than twenty five percent (25%) shall pass a
sieve having fifty (50) meshes per lineal inch and not more than five percent
(5%) shall pass a sieve having one hundred (100) meshes per lineal inch. Fine
aggregate shall not contain vegetable or other deleterious matter, nor more
than three percent (3%) by weight of clay or loam.
   C.   Coarse aggregate shall consist of clean, durable crushed rock or
pebbles graded in size, free from vegetable or other deleterious matter, and
shall contain no soft, flat or elongated particles. The size of the coarse
aggregate shall be such as to pass a one and one-half inch (11/2") round
opening, and shall range from one and one-half inches (11/2") down, not more
than five percent (5%) passing a screen having four (4) meshes per lineal inch.
   D.   The portland cement used in sidewalk construction shall conform to the
standard specifications of the American society for testing materials. (1980
Code § 19-20)
7-2-5: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
All sidewalks shall be built by the following specifications and none other:
   A.   Width: Width in residential sections shall be five feet (5') and wider
where required by the city engineer; provided, that in residential sections
when an adjoining concrete walk is less than five feet (5') wide, a lesser
width may be allowed by the city engineer; provided, that in exercising his
discretion in such cases, he shall be governed by the population density of the
immediate vicinity and the future demands to be made by the public on such
walk.
   B.   Base: All bases shall be five inches (5") except where the city
engineer requires additional depths for driveways.
   C.   Mixtures: All concrete mixtures shall be
1-2-4 proportion, well mixed.
   D.   Concrete: All walks shall be of concrete and nothing else; made in one
course, properly troweled and tramped to bring to a smooth mortar surface.
   E.   Subgrades: Places which are low and continuously damp or soaked shall
have a five inch (5") subbase of gravel or cinders with tiling added for
drainage as specified by the city engineer.
   F.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints one-half inch (1/2") wide and filled
with bituminous material shall be placed in all walks, and joints not to be
more than forty eight inches (48") apart. Expansion joints shall be placed on
all sides of intersecting blocks, at all curb connections, on both sides of
driveway crossing blocks. At all junctions of walks with the curbs, there shall
be one inch (1") expansion joints filled with bituminous material.
   G.   Slopes: All walks shall slope one way toward the curb with a fall of
one-fourth inch (1/4") to each foot.
   H.   Grades And Levels: The city engineer shall supply all grades and levels
and none other shall be used.
   I.   Finish: Sidewalks shall have a wooden float finish, true to line and
grade, and shall bear thereon the imprint of the person, firm, or corporation
constructing the same. Said wooden float finish may be waived by the city
engineer in the exercise of his discretion. (1980 Code § 19-21)
7-2-6: CONDEMNATION OF SIDEWALKS:
The board of commissioners may at any time, by resolution, condemn any portion
of a sidewalk whenever in their judgment it shall be deemed necessary, and
provide for the construction of a new sidewalk in accordance with this and
other ordinances of the city. (1980 Code § 19-23)
CHAPTER 3
STREET PAVING STANDARDS 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Standards To Apply
7-3-2: General Requirements
7-3-3: Subgrades
7-3-4: Base Course
7-3-5: Concrete Curb And Gutter
7-3-6: Portland Cement Concrete Paving
7-3-7: Paving Joints
7-3-8: Construction Joints
7-3-9: Asphalt Surface
7-3-10: Testing
7-3-11: Maintenance
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-17 of this title for penalty provisions.
7-3-1: STANDARDS TO APPLY:
These standards will apply to all streets constructed in the city by
developers. The standards will cover subgrade, base course, and surface course
of the type streets as shown in the subdivision regulations of the city. (1980
Code § 19-31)
7-3-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
In general, residential streets shall consist of properly prepared subbase,
concrete curb, and gutter, six inches (6") of approved base course, and two
inches (2") of hot laid hot mix asphaltic concrete, or five inches (5")
portland concrete paving on two inches (2") of sand cushion. Secondary
thoroughfare shall consist of the above, except hot mix hot laid asphalt shall
be four inches (4") thick, and concrete slab shall be six inches (6") thick.
(1980 Code § 19-32)
7-3-3: SUBGRADES:
   A.   Conformance With Plans: The bottom of the excavation for the pavement
or base course shall be known as the pavement subgrade, and shall conform to
the lines, grade, and cross section shown on the plans.
   B.   Moisture Content: All soft and yielding material and other portions of
the subgrade which will not compact readily when rolled or tamped shall be
removed as directed and replaced with suitable material placed and compacted
at, or slightly above, the optimum moisture content. In the absence of standard
testing, a reasonable evaluation of moisture content may be made by squeezing a
ball of damp soil in the hand. If the ball is so dry that it crumbles easily,
additional water should be mixed into the soil. If it is so wet that free water
comes to the surface when kneaded, the subgrade should be permitted to air out
before final rolling. The subgrade shall be thoroughly compacted with suitable
equipment to secure a ninety five percent (95%) proctor density. (1980 Code §
19-33)
7-3-4: BASE COURSE:
   A.   Gravel: The base coverage shall be native gravel or other such material
as the city may approve.
   B.   Type And Thickness:
      1.   Stabilized Aggregate Base Course: Class 1-A, class 2-A, class 3-A,
six inches (6") of base will be required in all streets unless specified by
city for special conditions.
      2.   Class 1-A Soil-Cement Base: The base shall be six inches (6") thick
on all streets and constructed in accordance with section 313 state highway
standard specifications.
      3.   Class 2-A Soil-Asphalt Base: The base shall be six inches (6") thick
on all streets and constructed in accordance with section 313 state highway
standard specifications.
      4.   Class 3-A Sand-Asphalt Base Course (Hot Mix Hot Laid): The base
course shall be four inches (4") thick on residential streets, four inches (4")
thick on secondary thoroughfare. The construction shall be in accordance with
section 314 state highway standard specifications.
   C.   Test Run On Base Course: A tack coat of asphaltic material shall be
placed between the base course and surface course unless waived by the city.
There shall be test run on the base course on each one thousand (1,000) square
yards, by a recognized laboratory, and the tests results shall be furnished to
the city. (1980 Code § 19-34)
7-3-5: CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER:
Section 609 highway specifications shall be a part of these standards:
   A.   All curb and gutters shall be of six inch (6") thick portland cement
concrete, six inch by twenty four inch (6" x 24") sections, rolled or vertical
type curbs when used in connection with flexible type of soil cement pavement.
   B.   All curb and gutters shall be of 3500# compressive strength portland
cement concrete at twenty eight (28) days. One inch (1") contraction joints
shall be every eighteen feet (18') and expansion joints every seventy two feet
(72'). Should crushed stone aggregates be used, the spacing may be twenty feet
(20') and eighty feet (80'), respectively. Curing shall be started immediately
after finishing operations are completed.
   C.   A white pigmented curing membrane, if used, should be placed in ample
quantities and completely cover all exposed surfaces. Wet burlap, if used, must
completely cover all surfaces and be kept in a saturated condition for at least
seven (7) days. All curb and gutters shall be muled and finished with a broom
finish and backfilled as soon as possible after forms are removed to prevent
undermining. (1980 Code § 19-35)
7-3-6: PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE PAVING:
Section 414 Oklahoma state highway specifications shall be a part of these
standards:
   A.   All concrete paving shall be laid on a two inch (2") sand cushion. The
concrete paving shall be five inches (5") thick on residential streets and
shall be six inches (6") thick on secondary thoroughfares. The width of the
slab shall be thirty two feet (32') back to back of curb on residential
streets, and thirty two feet (32') back of curb on secondary thoroughfare. All
section line roads shall be considered secondary thoroughfare unless otherwise
designated by the city.
   B.   Concrete for paving shall be 3500# in twenty eight (28) days. (1980
Code § 19-36)
7-3-7: PAVING JOINTS:
Longitudinal center joints shall be sawed to a depth of one- fourth (1/4) the
thickness of the slab, and shall be filled with mastic material. There shall be
one sawed joint on twenty eight foot (28') width slabs, without reinforcing.
The same shall apply to thirty two foot (32') paving widths, except where
construction joints are required, in which case five-eighths (5/8) smooth dowel
bar eighteen inches (18") on center will be installed. On forty four foot (44')
slabs, three (3) joints will be required, two (2) of which will be sawed
contraction joints, and one construction joint with dowels as specified above.
(1980 Code § 19-37)
7-3-8: CONSTRUCTION JOINTS:
   A.   Dowelling: All construction joints shall be doweled with five- eighths
inch (5/8") smooth dowel on eighteen inch (18") centers. (1980 Code § 19-38)
   B.   Contraction Joints: Contraction joints shall be spaced every twenty
feet (20'). They shall be sawed to a depth of one-fourth (1/4) the thickness of
slab and filled with mastic material. No dowels will be required. (1980 Code §
19-39)
   C.   Transverse Expansion Joints: Transverse expansion joints shall be
spaced not over three hundred feet (300') of slab and at the slab returns.
Expansion joints shall have nonextending filler, five-eighths inch (5/8")
dowels at eighteen inch (18") centers with expansion caps. All dowel bars shall
be coated with heavy grease to prevent binding to concrete. Intersections shall
have expansion joints at returns and sawed contraction joints as needed to
prevent cracking of slabs. (1980 Code § 19-40)
7-3-9: ASPHALT SURFACE:
The asphaltic surface course shall be two inches (2") thick on residential
streets, and four inches (4") thick on secondary thoroughfares. The asphaltic
concrete shall be type "C" as shown in section 411.02 state highway standards.
The construction, material control, shall be as set forth in section 411
standard specifications for highway construction, Oklahoma state highway
department, current edition. (1980 Code § 19-41)
7-3-10: TESTING:
Testing shall be done in accordance with Oklahoma state highway standards. The
city shall be furnished copies of tests before streets are accepted. (1980 Code
§ 19-42)
7-3-11: MAINTENANCE:
The contractor shall furnish a maintenance bond in the amount of ten percent
(10%) of the contract, guaranteeing the maintenance of paving for a period of
one year from date of completion and acceptance of paving by the city. (1980
Code § 19-43)
CHAPTER 4
CULVERTS AND DRAINAGE 1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Drainage Of Streets And Alleys
7-4-2: Size Of Culverts
7-4-3: Approval Of Materials
7-4-4: Replacement Of Unsafe Or Inadequate Culverts
7-4-5: Concrete Slabs
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-17 of this title for penalty provisions.
7-4-1: DRAINAGE OF STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Duty Of City To Maintain: It shall be the duty of the street
superintendent and the street department to maintain at all times adequate
curbs and/or drainage ditches along the sides of the traveled portions of all
streets, avenues and alleys within the corporate limits of the city. In
connection with this duty, the city shall have the right to use all or any
portion of the dedicated width of such street, avenue or alley and may use
whatever reasonable means are necessary in order to maintain such drainage for
the protection of the surface and general condition of said streets.
   B.   Property Owner Responsibilities: All property owners shall have the
duty to fully cooperate with the street department of the city in maintaining
proper drainage for streets and alleys; and it shall be the duty of all
property owners to purchase and install in the manner prescribed by the street
superintendent and under his supervision, any necessary drainage pipe, bridge,
culvert or other item of equipment or construction necessary to maintain proper
drainage alongside any property owned.
   C.   Nonliability Of City: The city shall have no liability to any property
owner for any change made or property removed or destroyed in the process of
reasonably creating and maintaining proper drainage of the streets and alleys
of the city. (1980 Code § 19-44)
7-4-2: SIZE OF CULVERTS:
All drainage culverts hereinafter installed shall be of sufficient cross
section to carry the storm water flowing through them as determined by the
design criteria of the city engineer. In no case shall a driveway culvert be
less than a twelve inch (12") pipe or a box of equivalent cross section. (1980
Code § 19-45)
7-4-3: APPROVAL OF MATERIALS:
All material used in driveway culverts shall be approved by the street
superintendent or city engineer. (1980 Code § 19-46)
7-4-4: REPLACEMENT OF UNSAFE OR INADEQUATE CULVERTS:
Existing culverts which become structurally unsafe or are inadequate to carry
storm water properly shall be removed and replaced with an adequate culvert in
thirty (30) days, upon the receipt of written notice by the street
superintendent or city engineer. Material shall be furnished by the property
owner. (1980 Code § 19-47)
7-4-5: CONCRETE SLABS:
No concrete slabs shall extend into the drainage ditch of a city street unless
approved by the street superintendent or city engineer. (1980 Code § 19-48)
CHAPTER 5
TREES 1
SECTION:
7-5-1: Trimming Trees
7-5-2: Failure To Comply; City Abatement; Costs
7-5-3: Wire Or Cable Installation; Tree Trimming Permit
7-5-4: Planting Trees
7-5-5: Unlawful To Damage
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-17 of this title for penalty provisions.
7-5-1: TRIMMING TREES:
It is hereby made the duty of every person who is the owner of, or who as agent
has the control of, any real property or premises situated within the limits of
the city, abutting on any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, upon
being notified so to do, to trim and keep trimmed all trees on such real
property and premises and the parking contiguous and adjacent thereto the
branches of which overhang any portion of said streets, alleys, sidewalks, or
other public places in such manner that the lowermost branches thereof shall be
at least eight feet (8') above the level of the portion of such streets,
alleys, sidewalks, or other places so overhung by such branches. (1980 Code §
19-49)
7-5-2: FAILURE TO COMPLY; CITY ABATEMENT; COSTS:
If the owner or agent having control of any real property or premises as above
described, after having been notified so to do and after the lapse of a
reasonable time thereafter, not to exceed ten (10) days, shall fail, neglect,
or refuse to comply with the requirements of section
7-5-1 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer to
cause the work to be done at the expense of the owner of such real property and
premises and any expense incurred in the doing of the same shall be assessed
against such real property and premises and certified to the county treasurer
for collection as are other taxes. (1980 Code § 19-50; amd. 2002 Code)
7-5-3: WIRE OR CABLE INSTALLATION; TREE TRIMMING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person,
firm or corporation to trim, cut, or otherwise mutilate any shade or ornamental
tree on any street, parking or other public place in the city for the purpose
of stringing wires or cables along or across said parkings or other public
places, without first obtaining a permit therefor from the code enforcement
officer. (1980 Code § 19-51; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Duty Of Code Enforcement Officer: Whenever any telephone, telegraph or
electric light company, or any other person, firm or corporation desiring to
string any wires or cables along or across any of the street parkings, or any
other public place of the city, or to make more room for wires or cables
already strung, and such person, firm or corporation may desire to trim, cut or
remove any tree or any part thereof on said street parking or other public
place, such person, firm or corporation shall make application to the code
enforcement officer, and if he shall be of the opinion that it is necessary for
the proper stringing of said wire, to trim or cut any such trees, and the same
can be done without serious injury to said trees, said trimming or cutting may
be done; however, that no such trimming or cutting of said trees shall be done
except under the supervision and control of said code enforcement officer.
(1980 Code § 19-52; amd. 2002 Code)
7-5-4: PLANTING TREES:
No trees shall be planted on any street right of way, parking, alley or public
place within the city until an application has been filed with the city clerk
and has been considered and approved by the board of commissioners. The
application shall show the number and kind of trees to be planted, their
location, space between, the distance from curb and sidewalk lines respectively
and that all such trees are free from all plant diseases and the planting of
said trees shall conform to all resolutions or ordinances which are now or may
hereafter be in force at the time of planting. (1980 Code § 19-53)
7-5-5: UNLAWFUL TO DAMAGE:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to cut, scar, break or bend
any limbs or otherwise injure any shade tree on the streets, alleys or public
places of the city, except as hereinbefore provided. (1980 Code § 19-54)
CHAPTER 6
PARKS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Park Property Defined
7-6-2: Acceptance Of Gifts
7-6-3: Plans For New Parks, Approval
7-6-4: Admittance Hours
7-6-5: Park Rules And Regulations
7-6-6: Violations; Penalty
7-6-1: PARK PROPERTY DEFINED:
The term "park property" includes all parks, street parkings, squares and areas
of land owned by the city and used as parks and all buildings, structures,
trees, plants and improvements of every nature thereon, and all tools and
implements used in connection therewith. (1980 Code § 15-7)
7-6-2: ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS:
Real and personal property may be bequeathed, granted, devised, or conveyed to
the city for the purpose of the improvement or ornamentation of said parks or
approaches, or for the establishment or maintenance therein of museums,
monuments, collections of natural history, statues, fountains or other works of
art, upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the grantors or
devisers thereof, and accepted by the board of commissioners of the city. All
property so devised, granted, bequeathed or conveyed, and the rents, issues,
profits and income thereof, shall be subject to the management, direction and
control of the city manager, with the approval of the board of commissioners.
(1980 Code § 15-8; amd. Ord. 282, 11-8-2010)
7-6-3: PLANS FOR NEW PARKS, APPROVAL:
All plans for new parks or changes in the parks or parkings of the city shall
be prepared by the city manager and approved by the board of commissioners.
(1980 Code § 15-9; amd. Ord. 282, 11-8-2010)
7-6-4: ADMITTANCE HOURS:
   A.   Hours Designated: It shall be unlawful for any person to be present in
any city park from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Any
person present in any city park shall be in violation of this code and shall be
subject to punishment as set forth in subsection
7-6-6B of this chapter.
   B.   Exceptions: The city commission shall set all special holidays and
celebrations that are excepted from enforcement of this section by posting the
same at city hall. (Ord. 214, 8-3-1999)
7-6-5: PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Discharging Firearms: No person shall discharge firearms in any public
park. (1980 Code § 15-10)
   B.   Defacing Property: No person shall write upon or mark or deface in any
manner or use in any improper way any water closet, park seat, any building,
fence or other property in any park. (1980 Code § 15-11)
   C.   Driving In Parks: No person shall drive or ride upon the grass or
footways or elsewhere in a city park, other than upon the roads provided for
the use of automobiles and other vehicles. (1980 Code § 15-12)
   D.   Speed: No person shall drive or ride at a greater rate of speed than
fifteen (15) miles per hour within any city park. (1980 Code § 15-13)
   E.   Injuring Trees: No person shall break, cut, mutilate, or injure, remove
or carry away any trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, stone or stone walks, bench,
chair, seat, bower, stand, structures, fence or property or anything whatsoever
in, upon or near any park, or any street, avenue or highway around the same.
(1980 Code § 15-14)
   F.   Nuisances Or Indecency: No person shall commit any nuisance or any
offense against decency and good morals in the parks. (1980 Code § 15-15)
   G.   Throwing Stones Or Rubbish: No person shall throw stones or rubbish of
any kind into any pool or stream or other place in the parks, except into
receptacles designed for that purpose. (1980 Code § 15-16)
   H.   Molesting Animals: No person shall chase, kill, set snare for, pet or
tease any rabbit, squirrel, bird, or any other animal or thing belonging to
said parks or kept therein. (1980 Code § 15-17)
   I.   Billposting: No person shall paste, affix or inscribe any handbill,
poster, card, device or inscription to or upon or against any fence, structure
or property of or on any park or highway, street or avenue surrounding the
same. (1980 Code § 15-18)
   J.   Disorderly Behavior: No person shall curse, swear, or use abusive
language or fight, throw stones or behave in a riotous or disorderly manner in
any park. (1980 Code § 15-19)
   K.   License For Selling Food, Articles: No person shall set up any booth,
table, stand or other device for vending or retailing any candies, ice cream or
other articles whatsoever in any park without first obtaining permission
therefor from the City Manager. (1980 Code § 15-20)
   L.   Fouling Water: No person shall foul in any manner any spring, swimming
pool, drinking fountain or stream in any park. (1980 Code § 15-21)
   M.   Hitching Animals: No person shall fasten any horse, cow or other animal
to any tree, stake, building, post or other fastening in any park. (1980 Code §
15-22)
   N.   Traffic Rules: All automobiles, vehicles or pedestrians, when meeting
on the driveways in any park, shall keep to the right and also comply with all
other requirements of the traffic ordinances of the City in the use of said
driveways by automobiles or other vehicles. (1980 Code § 15-23)
   O.   Trespassing: No person shall go or walk upon any space in said parks
reserved for flowers or other plants or otherwise invade any plot reserved by
the City for shrubbery or grass or flowers or for any other purpose. (1980 Code
§ 15-24)
   P.   Disturbing Picnics: No person shall disturb or interfere with any
picnic or social gathering or program of any group of persons in any City park.
(1980 Code § 15-25)
   Q.   Dumping: The City of Drumright prohibits dumping at the Splash Pad. The
fine for a violation is five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord.
329, 7-9-2018)
7-6-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Offense: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate
any of the provisions of this chapter and, upon conviction of such violation,
shall be punished accordingly. Provided, that each act which is an offense or
the continuance of any prohibited condition, from day to day, shall for each
act and each day's continuance of the prohibited conditions respectively be a
separate offense. (1980 Code § 15-26)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: It shall be unlawful for any person to use any of such
recreational facilities owned or operated by the City without having complied
with the rules and regulations set out herein as have been promulgated by the
City Commission in connection therewith; and anyone violating any of the rules
and regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense
and, on conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 15-27; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Land Description Of Cemetery
7-7-2: Name Of Cemetery
7-7-3: Use Of Cemetery Property
7-7-4: Sale Of Lots
7-7-5: Execution Of Deeds
7-7-6: Maintenance Of Cemetery
7-7-7: Locating Gravesite; Fee
7-7-8: Record Of Sales And Burials
7-7-9: Unauthorized Use Of Lots
7-7-10: Cemetery Funds
7-7-11: Placement Of Headstones Or Markers
7-7-12: Conduct In Cemeteries
7-7-13: Admittance Of Children To Cemetery
7-7-14: Nonliability Of City For Property Damage
7-7-15: Traffic Regulations
7-7-16: Plantings And Improvements
7-7-17: Lot Care
7-7-18: Interment Conditions
7-7-19: Gravesite Provisions
7-7-20: Admittance Hours
7-7-21: Vault Required
7-7-22: Disinterment And Removal
7-7-23: City Regulations Extended To Cemeteries
7-7-24: Police Power
7-7-25: Penalty
7-7-1: LAND DESCRIPTION OF CEMETERY:
   A.   Green Lawn Cemetery: The following described property is hereby
designated as the "Green Lawn Cemetery" of the city:
Ten (10) acres in the Northeast Corner of the Southwest quarter (SW/4) of the
Southeast quarter (SE/4) of Section 18, Township 17 North, Range 7 East, Creek
County, Oklahoma, said property being 933.2 feet East and West, by 466 feet
North and South.
   B.   North Cemetery: The following described property is hereby designated
as the "North Cemetery" of the city:
Five (5) acres in the Northwest Corner of the Northeast Quarter (NE/4) of
Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 7 East, Creek County, Oklahoma,
particularly described by metes and bounds as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest Corner of the Northeast Quarter (NE/4) of Section
31; thence East a distance of 466.6 Feet; thence South parallel to the half
section line running North and South, a distance of 466.6 Feet; thence West a
distance of 466.6 Feet; thence North a distance of 466.6 Feet to the point of
beginning and containing five (5) Acres, more or less, in the Northeast Quarter
(NE/4) of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 7 East of the Indian Base and
Meridian.
   (1980 Code § 6-1)
7-7-2: NAME OF CEMETERY:
   A.   Green Lawn Cemetery: The property described in subsection
7-7-1A of this chapter, formerly being owned by the Masonic building and
cemetery association, and being platted by said organization, said plat being
dated June 30, 1921, filed on July 1, 1921, in the Creek County clerk's office,
and entered in book 202, page 510 of the records in said office and later being
deeded to the city by said organization, is hereby named, and shall hereafter
be known as "Green Lawn Cemetery" of the city.
   B.   North Cemetery: The property described in subsection
7-7-1B of this chapter, being formerly owned by the Drumright cemetery
association and later being deeded to the city by said organization, is hereby
named, and shall hereafter be known as the "North Cemetery" of the city.
   C.   Application Of Provisions: All other sections of this chapter which
refer to "Green Lawn Cemetery" are hereby amended to include "North Cemetery"
where such sections are applicable to the said "North Cemetery". (1980 Code §
6-2)
7-7-3: USE OF CEMETERY PROPERTY:
   A.   As of the effective date hereof, all grave spaces in the "North
Cemetery" have been sold and no other spaces are available for sale.
   B.   The above described property, known as "Green Lawn Cemetery" of
Drumright, and "North Cemetery" of Drumright, shall be used for cemetery
purposes, and shall not be used for any other purpose. (1980 Code § 6-3)
7-7-4: SALE OF LOTS:
   A.   Authority: The city is hereby authorized to sell lots in Green Lawn
Cemetery for burial purposes. Said lots shall be sold in size and location as
shown on the plat referred to in section
7-7-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Fees Imposed:
      1.   There shall be a fee of eight hundred dollars ($800.00) for each of
the lots in, and including, block 1 through block 16 and block 33 through block
48, excepting lots 1 and 18, in blocks 40 and 41, and lots 9 and 10 in blocks 8
and 9, for which there shall be a fee of four hundred dollars ($400.00).
      2.   There shall be a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each lot
in block seventeen (17) through and including block thirty two (32). (Ord. 207,
5-6-1997)
7-7-5: EXECUTION OF DEEDS:
The mayor and city clerk are hereby authorized to execute deeds to lots in
Green Lawn Cemetery to the purchasers. Said deeds shall be executed only after
payment of the fees established in section
7-7-4 of this chapter. (1980 Code § 6-5)
7-7-6: MAINTENANCE OF CEMETERY:
The city manager is hereby directed to maintain, through city forces, Green
Lawn Cemetery and North Cemetery in a proper and adequate manner. Such
cemeteries shall be kept properly mowed, free of weeds and the entrance, roads
and pathways shall be kept in good repair. (1980 Code § 6-5; amd. 2002 Code)
7-7-7: LOCATING GRAVESITE; FEE:
Locating the gravesite shall be done under the supervision of the city manager,
or his designee, and a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the city
clerk therefor. (Ord. 226, 6-6-2000)
7-7-8: RECORD OF SALES AND BURIALS:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep records of the sale of each lot,
and the name of the person to be buried in each lot. (1980 Code § 6-8)
7-7-9: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF LOTS:
It is hereby declared an offense against the city to use in any manner any of
the lots in Green Lawn Cemetery without first purchasing them in a lawful and
legal manner. (1980 Code § 6-10)
7-7-10: CEMETERY FUNDS:
   A.   Perpetual Care Fund: A minimum of twelve and five-tenths percent
(12.5%) of all lot sales shall be deposited in a perpetual care fund as
provided by the laws of the state. The uses and restrictions placed on such
fund shall be observed by the city and the statutes fully complied with. (1980
Code § 6-11; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Disposition Of Funds Derived From Lot Sales; Contributions: All funds
derived from the sale of cemetery lots shall be deposited into the general fund
of the city. The board of commissioners is authorized, on behalf of the city,
to accept and take contributions from persons to improve, mow, provide care,
and for designated purposes in the cemetery. (1980 Code § 6-12; amd. 2002 Code;
Ord. 282, 11-8-2010)
7-7-11: PLACEMENT OF HEADSTONES OR MARKERS:
It is hereby declared an offense to place any object used for identification
purposes, or for decorative purposes, outside the boundaries of any lot or
lots. (1980 Code § 6-9)
7-7-12: CONDUCT IN CEMETERIES:
No person shall:
   A.   Enter a cemetery except through established gates.
   B.   Throw rubbish or debris on walks or drives or any part of cemetery
grounds.
   C.   Pick or mutilate any flowers, either wild or domestic, or disturb any
trees, shrubs or other plants.
   D.   Consume liquor, beer, or controlled drugs within a cemetery or carry
the same on the premises.
   E.   Permit any animal to enter or remain in a cemetery.
   F.   Discharge any firearms or air rifles in or adjacent to a cemetery. This
regulation shall not apply to authorized volleys at burials. (1980 Code § 6-13)
7-7-13: ADMITTANCE OF CHILDREN TO CEMETERY:
No children under sixteen (16) years of age shall enter a cemetery unless
attended by adults responsible for the children's conduct. (1980 Code § 6-14)
7-7-14: NONLIABILITY OF CITY FOR PROPERTY DAMAGE:
The city shall not be responsible for any damage to lots, structures or objects
thereon, or for flowers or articles removed from any lot or grave. (1980 Code §
6-15)
7-7-15: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
All traffic laws of the city that are applicable to the operation of vehicles
in cemeteries shall be strictly observed. Persons driving in cemeteries shall
be responsible for any damage done by the vehicle in a driver's charge. In
addition, no person shall:
   A.   Drive a vehicle in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour on any
cemetery road.
   B.   Drive off the established roads unless permission is given in writing
to do so.
   C.   Make a U-turn on cemetery roads.
   D.   Use a cemetery road as a public thoroughfare. (1980 Code § 6-16)
7-7-16: PLANTINGS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
All plantings and other improvements to lots shall be done with the approval of
the board of commissioners or their duly authorized representative, as the case
may be. (1980 Code § 6-17; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 282, 11-8-2010)
7-7-17: LOT CARE:
The following rules shall be observed in the care of cemetery lots:
   A.   Copings, fences, structures of wood and hedges in all new additions to
the cemetery are prohibited.
   B.   Those structures or enclosures established on any lot previous to the
adoption of these regulations which have, in the judgment of the cemetery
management, become unsightly by reason of neglect or age shall be removed.
   C.   No elevated mounds shall be built over graves, and no lot shall be
filled above the grade of surrounding terrain.
   D.   Chairs, settees, benches and vases that have previously been permitted
must be properly maintained. Failure to properly maintain shall be cause for
removal.
   E.   Rubbish, refuse and unused containers shall not be left on the lots.
   F.   No person, firm or corporation may enclose any cemetery lot in the
cemeteries of the city by curb, fence posts, rails, pipe or any other means in
all new and future additions to the city cemeteries. (1980 Code § 6-18)
7-7-18: INTERMENT CONDITIONS:
   A.   No interment shall take place without a burial permit, nor until all
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations relative to burials have been complied
with.
   B.   No grave shall be opened unless the grave space has been paid for, with
the exception of indigent cases, or when the funeral director assumes the
responsibility of payment for such grave space or spaces.
   C.   Funeral directors making arrangements for burials shall be responsible
for all interment charges if not paid by the owner or agent.
   D.   If the deceased to be interred is not a member of the immediate family
of the lot owner, permission in writing from such owner must be filed with the
city clerk. This permission must be filed before the interment is made. (1980
Code § 6-19)
7-7-19: GRAVESITE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Only one interment in any one grave shall be permitted.
   B.   The city shall not be held responsible for errors in location of graves
on lots arising from improper instructions of lot owners.
   C.   Orders from funeral directors shall be construed as orders from owners.
   D.   Under no circumstances shall the city assume responsibility for error
in opening graves when orders are given by telephone. (1980 Code § 6-20)
7-7-20: ADMITTANCE HOURS:
   A.   Hours Designated: It shall be unlawful for any person to be present in
any city cemeteries from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Any person present in any cemetery shall be in violation of this section and
shall be subject to punishment as set forth in section
7-7-25 of this chapter.
   B.   Exceptions: The city commission shall set all special holidays and
celebrations that are excepted from enforcement of this section by posting the
same at city hall. (Ord. 214, 8-3-1999)
7-7-21: VAULT REQUIRED:
All caskets containing the remains of decedents to be interred in either of the
cemeteries described in section
7-7-1 of this chapter shall be, at the time of interment, enclosed in a vault
constructed of concrete, plastic or steel, the construction and quality of same
to be subject to the approval of the city. (1980 Code § 6-21.5; amd. Ord. 282,
11-8-2010)
7-7-22: DISINTERMENT AND REMOVAL:
Disinterment and removal of a body shall not be made without the permission as
provided by law. Graves shall not be opened for inspection except for official
investigation and as may be ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (1980
Code § 6-22)
7-7-23: CITY REGULATIONS EXTENDED TO CEMETERIES:
All of the ordinances of the city, where applicable, are hereby extended to all
city owned cemeteries which may exist outside the corporate limits of the city,
and shall be in full force and effect therein. (1980 Code § 6-23)
7-7-24: POLICE POWER:
The management and employees engaged in work at the city cemeteries duly
authorized by the city shall have and exercise police power and make arrests
and file complaints against persons, firms or corporations committing an
offense in the city cemeteries, insofar as the same may be necessary for the
protection of property and good order of the cemetery. (1980 Code § 6-24)
7-7-25: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when an
ordinance provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 6-25; amd. 2002 Code)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
CITY UTILITIES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Utilities Trust Authority
8-1-2: Mandatory Connection To City Utilities
8-1-1: UTILITIES TRUST AUTHORITY:
The city has leased its water and sewer sanitation systems to the Drumright
utilities trust authority, a public trust. The trust has power to let water and
sewer sanitation systems. The motions and resolutions adopted by the trust
replaced any ordinances which the city had relating to these matters. For the
motions and resolutions passed by the public trust, please refer to the minutes
of the Drumright utilities trust authority. A copy of the trust indenture
relating to the leasing of these systems shall be and remain on file in the
office of the city clerk. (1980 Code ch. 18 note; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-2: MANDATORY CONNECTION TO CITY UTILITIES:
   A.   Each occupied residence and each occupied business or commercial
building in the city of Drumright, Oklahoma, shall connect to the city's water,
sanitary sewer and gas utility system within sixty (60) days after the adoption
of this section; provided, however, that said sixty (60) days does not begin to
toll until said water, sanitary sewer and gas utility system is constructed and
such service shall be brought within at least two hundred feet (200') of the
residence or business property line.
   B.   Any person, firm, corporation or entity violating any provision of this
section shall upon conviction thereof, be liable for a fine of not to exceed
twenty dollars ($20.00) and each day that any violation of any provision of
this section is allowed to exist shall be and constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 296, 1-24-2013)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Mandatory Connection
8-2-2: Fluoride In Public Water Supply
8-2-3: Penalty
8-2-4: Water Conservation
8-2-1: MANDATORY CONNECTION:
Each occupied residence and each occupied business or commercial building in
the city shall connect to the city's water system as set forth in section
8-1-2 of this title. (1980 Code § 18-1; amd. Ord. 296, 1-24-2013)
8-2-2: FLUORIDE IN PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY:
In order to protect the health and welfare of the citizens of the city from and
after the effective date hereof, the quantity of fluoride in the public water
supply shall be controlled in such manner that the amount present in the water
served to the public shall be in conformity with the policy, and subsequent
changes established by the Oklahoma state board of health. (1980 Code § 18-2)
8-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation or entity violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that any violation of any provision of this
chapter is allowed to exist shall be and constitute a separate offense. (1980
Code § 18-3; amd. 2002 Code)
8-2-4: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Notice Of Restrictions: The city manager of Drumright is hereby
authorized to restrict or prohibit the use of water for certain purposes during
a drought or to prevent a water shortage. Said authorization shall be reduced
to writing and the city clerk shall make the same available for public
inspection by posting same on the north window of city hall. In addition, each
such authorization shall be published in at least one newspaper of general
circulation within the city of Drumright. The authorization shall be effective
from and after posting on north window of city hall or from and after
publication. The city manager may use such other notice of the authorization to
the public as (s)he determines necessary or desirable. Each such authorization
shall have full force and effect of the law until terminated by the city
manager or by affirmative vote of the city commission.
   B.   Conservation Requirement: On direction by the city of Drumright staff
to conserve water during a drought or to prevent a water shortage, citizens
must comply by reducing their water consumption as described herein:
      1.   Phase I: Persons with residences or commercial buildings on the even
numbered sides of the street may only water their yards on even numbered days
and persons with residences or commercial buildings on the odd numbered sides
of the streets may only water their yards on odd numbered days.
      2.   Phase II: In addition to the restrictions in phase I, no sprinkler
systems or sprinklers are allowed. Outside watering is restricted to handheld
watering only, no more than one hour per day. Commercial, governmental and
industrial users may be contacted to decrease consumption.
   C.   Penalty: Any individual, person, firm, corporation, association or
other individual using city water in violation of any portion of this section
or in violation of any order of the city manager as authorized herein shall be
guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), excluding costs, for each day the defendant violates this
section. (Ord. 293, 8-13-2012)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Proper Toilet Facilities Required
8-3-3: Proper Disposal Of Human Excrement
8-3-4: Toilets; Cleanliness
8-3-5: Nuisance Declared; Offense
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-1-5 of this code for penalty provisions.
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
HUMAN EXCREMENT: The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
SANITARY PIT PRIVY: A privy which is built, rebuilt, or constructed so as to
conform to the specifications approved by the state health department.
SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a sanitary
sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the contents at
all times. (1980 Code § 11-26)
8-3-2: PROPER TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED:
Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside, are
employed, or congregate within the city shall install, equip, and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement; namely, a
sanitary water closet or closets, or a sanitary pit privy or privies. The
closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary water closet type
when located within two hundred feet (200') of a sanitary sewer and accessible
thereto, and of the sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a greater
distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet type emptying into a septic
tank system or the pit privy type; provided, that a septic tank system or a pit
privy may be used in such cases only if it meets the standards of and is
approved by the state health department. (1980 Code § 11-27; amd. 2002 Code)
8-3-3: PROPER DISPOSAL OF HUMAN EXCREMENT:
All human excrement disposed of within the city shall be disposed of by
depositing it in closets and privies of the type provided for in section
8-3-2 of this chapter. It is unlawful for any owner of property within the city
to permit the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for
any person to dispose of human excrement within the city in any other manner.
(1980 Code § 11-28)
8-3-4: TOILETS; CLEANLINESS:
   A.   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used.
   B.   No wash water, kitchen slop, or anything other than human excrement and
toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy.
   C.   No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery,
or other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or
sanitary water closet or water closet emptying into a septic tank until it is
disinfected in such a manner as may be prescribed by the health officer and
such regulations shall conform to those established by the state board of
health. (1980 Code § 11-29)
8-3-5: NUISANCE DECLARED; OFFENSE:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: All facilities for the disposal of human excrement
in a manner different from that required by this chapter, and all privies and
closets so constructed, situated, or maintained as to endanger the public
health, are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and
abated as such.
   B.   Violation An Offense: Any person maintaining any such nuisance is
guilty of an offense, and each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a
separate offense. (1980 Code § 11-30)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Definitions
9-1-3: Building Official; Duties; Appeals
9-1-4: Building Permits
9-1-5: Use Of Wood Shingles Outside Fire Limits
9-1-6: Structural Regulations; Conformance Required
9-1-7: Damaged, Unsafe And Unsanitary Buildings
9-1-8: Penalty
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of buildings and structures, including permits and
penalties, that BOCA national and international building code, current edition,
as the city building code, save and except such portions hereinafter deleted,
modified, or amended, a copy of which shall be made available for inspection at
the city inspector's office. From the date on which this section shall take
effect, the provisions of said code adopted shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 216, 11-2-1999)
9-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the BOCA national and
international building code it shall be held to mean the city of Drumright,
Oklahoma.
   B.   Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the BOCA national
and international building code, it shall be held to mean the city attorney of
the city of Drumright, Oklahoma. (1980 Code § 4-2; amd. 2002 Code)
9-1-3: BUILDING OFFICIAL; DUTIES; APPEALS:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment; Qualifications; Compensation:
      1.   There is hereby created the office of building official.
      2.   Appointment to the office of building official shall be made by the
city manager.
      3.   He shall have had not less than five (5) years of practical
experience in design or construction work.
      4.   The compensation of the building official shall be established by
the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 4-8)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The building official is hereby instructed and empowered to enforce
the ordinances and regulations relating to building, and to supervise the
construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of all buildings and other
structures in the city. The building official or his assistants shall have the
right to enter any premises at all reasonable hours and shall have the
authority to call upon the police department when necessary to assist in the
enforcement of the provisions of this title.
      2.   The building official of the city shall have the powers, duties and
functions prescribed for the "building official" by the BOCA national and
international building code adopted by this chapter; provided, that the said
powers, duties and functions may be performed by authorized representatives of
the building official and under his supervision and control. (1980 Code § 4-9;
amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Appeal From Decision Of Building Official:
      1.   Appeal from any action of the building official may be taken to the
board of city commissioners by any person aggrieved, or by any officer,
department, or board of the city affected by any decision of the building
official. Such appeal shall be taken within three (3) days from the date of the
decision of the building official, or in the event of the failure of such
building official to issue or refuse a permit, as herein provided, such appeal
shall be within three (3) days from the expiration of the ten (10) day period
therein provided. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with said building
official and with said board of city commissioners, within such time, a notice
of appeal, specifying the grounds therefor. The building official shall
forthwith transmit to the board of city commissioners certified copies of all
the papers constituting the record in such matter involved in such appeal,
together with a copy of the ruling or order from which said appeal is taken.
      2.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the building official certifies to the board of city
commissioners, after the notice of the appeal has been filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other
than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board of city
commissioners, or by a court of record on application or notice to the building
official.
      3.   The board of city commissioners shall hear said appeal within ten
(10) days from filing thereof, giving public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable
time. Upon the hearing, any person may appear in person or by his agent or by
his attorney.
      4.   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment, or order of
the board of city commissioners may be taken to district court by any person or
persons, jointly or severally aggrieved, or by any taxpayer or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the city, by filing with the city clerk and with
the board of city commissioners within ten (10) days a notice of such appeal,
which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. No bond or deposit for
costs shall be required for such appeal. Upon filing of the notice of appeal,
as herein provided, the said board shall forthwith transmit to the court clerk
of the county, the original or a certified copy of all the papers constituting
the records in the case, together with the order, decision or ruling of the
board.
      5.   An appeal to the district court from the board of city commissioners
stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the
chairman of the board of city commissioners certifies to the court clerk, after
notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate a stay would in his opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order granted by the district court upon application or notice to
the building official and the chairman of the board of city commissioners.
(1980 Code § 4-10)
   D.   Stop Order: The building official shall have the power to stop the
construction of any building or structure or any part thereof or the making of
alterations, additions, or repairs to the same within the city when the same is
being done in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, and, if same
is not in violation of this chapter but is dangerous and unsafe and is a menace
to the health and safety of the community, the board of city commissioners
shall have power to stop the construction thereof. (1980 Code § 4-11)
9-1-4: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No person, owner, agent, architect, builder or contractor shall
begin the erection, construction, alteration, repair or removal of any wall,
fence, sign, building or structure or part thereof in the city, or begin the
clearing or excavation of the site of any such building or structure without
first having applied for and obtained in writing a permit to do so from the
building official of the city. Provided, however, that ordinary maintenance
repairs of buildings or structures on personal residences owned and occupied by
the party, and the construction of fences along alley lines may be made without
notice or permits being required from the building official of the city. (Ord.
225, 3-17-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Structures subject to the provisions of this chapter hereafter
erected, and not in conformity with this chapter, shall be removed, or made to
conform with this chapter. (1980 Code § 4-12)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   All applications for permits to construct, erect, alter, repair or
move any wall, fence, sign, building or structure or part thereof for which
work a permit is required by this chapter shall be made to the building
official in writing over the signature of the owner or of his responsible agent
on printed blanks to be furnished by the city, and application shall be
accompanied by the fee specified in subsection C of this section.
      2.   Every application shall give the location of the proposed work, and
shall be accompanied by complete plans and specifications signed by the
building official to obtain full and complete information as to the character
of the work proposed to be done under the permit sought. A copy of said
approved plans shall remain in the office of the building official and no
change shall be made in the approved plans without the consent of the building
official. (1980 Code § 4-13)
   C.   Permit Fees:
      1.   The fees for the construction, alteration or repair of buildings or
other structures shall be as set from time to time by resolution of the board
of commissioners.
      2.   The fee for moving buildings shall be as set from time to time by
resolution of the board of commissioners, but no building shall be moved from
one place to another without written permit from the building official. (1980
Code § 4-14; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Issuance; Duration And Extension:
      1.   No permit shall be issued until it shall appear to the building
official that the proposed use, manner of construction, kind and quality of
material and workmanship shall be in all respects in conformity with the
provisions of this title and all other ordinances of the city.
      2.   A permit shall be issued or refused within ten (10) days after
complete plans or information have been filed with the building official, and a
failure to issue such a permit within said ten (10) days shall be considered
as, and have all the force and effect of, a refusal thereof.
      3.   Any building permit issued and under which no construction work is
commenced within six (6) months from and after the date of issuance thereof, or
under which the proposed construction has not been completed within two (2)
years of the date of issuance thereof, shall expire by limitation, and no
construction, alteration or removal shall take place after such expiration. All
fees paid on such permits shall be forfeited to the city.
      4.   Upon payment of ten cents ($0.10) per month on each one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) of the cost for which the original permit was issued, but
not less than five dollars ($5.00) per month in any case, a building permit may
be once extended for a period not exceeding six (6) months upon the approval of
the building official. (1980 Code § 4-15)
   E.   Wrecking Buildings; Permit; Bond; Fee:
      1.   Application for permits to wreck or demolish any building or part
thereof shall be accompanied by a statement in writing by the owner or his
agent, giving the full name and residence of each of the owners of the building
to be demolished, the name and address of the person who is to do the work, and
any other information which may be required. Before the permit is issued, an
approved bond shall be filed with the city clerk. In no case shall any wall be
taken down more than one story in advance of any other wall. All material and
debris shall be immediately lowered to the ground and shall not be placed on
the floors of the building.
      2.   The fee for a permit to wreck a building within the fire limits
shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each story of the building. (1980 Code § 4-
16; amd. 2002 Code)
9-1-5: USE OF WOOD SHINGLES OUTSIDE FIRE LIMITS:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the BOCA national and international
building code, wood shingles may be used outside of the fire limits for roofing
on dwellings and on buildings accessory to dwellings (such as private garages,
barns, etc.). (1980 Code § 4-5; amd. 2002 Code)
9-1-6: STRUCTURAL REGULATIONS; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
No wall, fence, sign, building, or structure of any kind or description, or
part thereof, shall hereafter be erected, constructed, altered, repaired, or
moved within the city, except in conformity with the provisions of this title,
including the said BOCA national and international building code. (1980 Code §
4-6; amd. 2002 Code)
9-1-7: DAMAGED, UNSAFE AND UNSANITARY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Damaged Buildings:
      1.   If any building within the city shall be seriously damaged by fire,
the elements, decay or otherwise, to such an extent as to render it dangerous
or render any part of it dangerous, such building shall not be repaired, or the
walls thereof be used for rebuilding upon until the same has been carefully
examined by the building official and a permit given for such building or
repair to proceed.
      2.   Any existing frame buildings within the fire limits which may
hereafter be damaged by fire, the elements, decay or otherwise to any amount
greater than fifty percent (50%) of its current market value shall not be
repaired or rebuilt, but shall be removed. (1980 Code § 4-18; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Repair Or Removal:
      1.   When any building, or part thereof, or any structure of like nature
is in the condition of being dangerous, insecure, unsafe or unsanitary in the
opinion of the building official, he shall cause notice in writing to be given
to the owner, occupants, lessees or persons in possession, charge or control of
such place or building to make such change, alteration or repairs, as safety or
the ordinances of the city require.
      2.   If, at the expiration of the time specified in such notice for the
completion of work required to be done by the terms of such notice, in order to
render the building or structure safe, said notice shall not have been complied
with, and said building or structure is in such unsafe or unsanitary condition
as to endanger life or property, or the health of the occupants or the
community or neighborhood, it shall be the duty of the appropriate officer of
the city, upon order to that effect from the city commissioners, to proceed
forthwith to tear down such unsafe and unsanitary condition as aforesaid, or to
take such measures as may be necessary to put such building or structure in a
safe and sanitary condition.
      3.   An itemized account of the expense of tearing down and removing such
building or structure or of putting same in a safe and sanitary condition shall
be presented to the owner, lessee or occupant for payment, and in case the
owner, lessee or occupant, as the case may be, shall fail or refuse, on demand,
to pay the same, then the same may be recovered from such owner, lessee or
occupant in an action of debt in the name of the city. (1980 Code § 4-19)
9-1-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Penalty Imposed: Any and all persons who shall violate any
of the provisions of this title or any code or regulations adopted by this
title, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order or regulation made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved hereunder,
or any certificate or permit issued hereunder, shall be guilty of an offense
against the city, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Provided, that each and every day upon which such violation
or failure to comply, or prohibited conditions are continued or persisted in,
shall constitute a separate offense, and shall be punished accordingly.
   B.   Remedial Action: The imposition of a penalty for the violation of this
title, or any part thereof, shall not preclude the city, or the officials
thereunder, from the enforced removal of prohibited conditions, as provided
herein, and shall not preclude the city, or the officials thereof, from
enjoining and restraining the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use of any building or other
structure within the city, as provided by ordinance. (1980 Code § 4-111; amd.
2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE 1
SECTION:
9-2-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-2-2: Plumbing Inspector
9-2-3: Permit Required; Application; Fees
9-2-4: Street Openings
9-2-5: Cross Connections; Backflow
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-8 of this title for penalty provisions.
9-2-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the city, rules and regulations for the governing of
all plumbing installed, altered, or repaired within or without the city
wherever water and/or sewage service originating from the municipal water and/
or sewage system is furnished. The provisions of the BOCA national and
international plumbing code, current edition, is hereby adopted a copy of said
code being available for inspection at the city inspector's office, and from
the date on which this section takes effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within and without the corporate limits of Drumright. (Ord. 216,
11-2-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
9-2-2: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment; Qualifications; Compensation:
      1.   There is hereby created the position of plumbing inspector who shall
be employed by the city, and appointed by the city manager, subject to the
confirmation of the city commissioners.
      2.   He shall have had at least two (2) years' experience as a plumber,
shall be of good moral character, shall be versed in the approved methods of
plumbing construction for safety of life and property.
      3.   The plumbing inspector shall receive such compensation as the city
commission may decide. (1980 Code § 4-21)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector to enforce all
provisions of this chapter, and such inspector is hereby granted the authority
to enter all buildings within or without the city limits when such buildings
are connected, or are to be connected to the municipal water and/or sewage
system.
      2.   The plumbing inspector shall prepare or cause to be prepared
suitable forms for applications, permits, inspection reports and other such
materials.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector to inspect and test
all plumbing work for compliance with this chapter and its adopted plumbing
code, and to enforce changing of such installations that do not meet the
requirements.
      4.   It further shall be his duty to see that all persons installing or
altering plumbing shall be qualified by state law. (1980 Code § 4-22)
9-2-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required; Application:
      1.   Before beginning any work in the city, the person installing or
altering same shall apply to the plumbing inspector or other designated
official and obtain a permit to do such work.
      2.   Only those persons legally authorized to do plumbing may be issued
permits. A permit may be issued to a homeowner to install or alter plumbing in
a single-family residence, provided the homeowner does the work himself and
that the building is owned and occupied by the owner as his home.
      3.   All such work shall meet the code requirements.
   B.   Fees: All applications for permits shall be made on suitable forms
provided and shall be accompanied by fees as set from time to time by
resolution of the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 4-23; amd. 2002 Code)
9-2-4: STREET OPENINGS 1 :
   A.   Careful Manner Of Performing Work: All openings made in the public
streets or alleys to install plumbing must be made as carefully as possible and
all materials excavated from the trenches shall be removed or placed where the
least inconvenience to the public will be caused.
   B.   Replacement Of Openings: All openings must be replaced in precisely the
same condition as before the excavation started and all rubbish and materials
must be removed at once, leaving the street or sidewalks clean and in perfect
repair.
   C.   Guarding Openings: All openings shall be marked with sufficient
barriers. Red lamps shall be maintained around the opening at night and all
other precautions shall be taken by the plumber or excavator to protect the
public from damage to person or property. (1980 Code § 4-26; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-1-10 of this code.
9-2-5: CROSS CONNECTIONS; BACKFLOW:
   A.   City Authority: The city plumbing inspector is hereby authorized to
discontinue or cause to be discontinued all water service or services to any
and all premises, lands, buildings, or structures where it is found that an
immediate hazard exists to the purity or potability of the city water supply.
   B.   Determination Of Hazards: The plumbing inspector is hereby authorized
and directed to take such steps as necessary to determine all potential hazards
to the purity or potability of the city water supply which exist.
   C.   Notice; Abatement Of Hazardous Condition: Upon determining said
potential hazards, it shall be the duty of said inspector to immediately cause
notice to go to the owner or such other person responsible for said premises,
specifying said hazards, and notifying said person that in the event that said
hazard is not corrected within ten (10) days from the date of said notice, all
water services shall be discontinued thereafter until the requirements of this
section have been complied with. (1980 Code § 4-27; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE 1
SECTION:
9-3-1: Adoption Of Electrical Code
9-3-2: Electrical Inspector
9-3-3: Electrical Contractors
9-3-4: Wireman's License
9-3-5: Installation Permit Required; Fees
9-3-6: Standards
9-3-7: Rules And Regulations
9-3-8: Responsibilities; Nonliability Of City
9-3-9: Inspection Of Wiring
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-8 of this title for penalty provisions.
9-3-1: ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city, rules and regulations for the
construction, alterations, removal and maintenance of electrical wiring and
apparatus, including permits and penalties, that certain electrical code known
as the national electrical code standard of the national fire protection
association, current edition and the whole thereof, and any amendments or
supplements thereto, of which not less than one copy has been and now is filed
in the office of the city clerk and duly authenticated by the city clerk and
the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction, alteration,
maintenance or removal of all electrical wiring and apparatus within the city
limits. (1980 Code § 4-43; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-2: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Office Created: The office of electrical inspector is hereby created
and the city manager is given the authority and duty of appointing an
electrical inspector, subject to confirmation by the board of city
commissioners, who shall serve at his pleasure. (1980 Code § 4-34; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   Inspection Duties; Cause Correction Of Defective Wiring:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the city electrical inspector to inspect all
electrical wiring and apparatus within the corporate limits of the city in
order to ascertain if such wiring or apparatus is in any respect dangerous to
life or property.
      2.   The electrical inspector shall make periodic inspection tours of all
existing wiring systems and apparatus and at any time any defective wiring or
irregularities are discovered, he shall notify the owner or lessee of said
property where such defective wiring or irregularities are found, setting out
the defects in writing, and he shall allot a definite period of time within
which said defective wiring or irregularities are found, setting out the
defects in writing, and he shall allot a definite period of time within which
said defective wiring or irregularities must be corrected. If the owner of
lessee of such premises shall refuse or fail to comply with such requirements
within the specified time, such shall constitute an offense against the city
and each separate day thereof shall be a separate offense. The existence of
such condition is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated as
other public nuisances, in the manner prescribed in other sections of the city
code. (1980 Code § 4-35)
   C.   General Supervisory Authority: The city electrical inspector shall have
the general supervision over all electrical wiring, apparatus, lines and
appurtenances on or in any and all buildings, streets and alleys, parks and
private lots, within the corporate limits of the city, and is hereby vested
with full authority to enter upon any premises or in any building, at any
reasonable hour, in the discharge of his duty. (1980 Code § 4-36)
9-3-3: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   License Required: All persons who desire to engage in the business of
installing wiring and equipment for lighting, heating or power, within the
corporate limits of the city, must first secure a contractor's license from the
city clerk.
   B.   Application For License; Fee: Such persons shall make application in
writing to the city clerk, who will refer the same to the state board of
electrical examiners for approval or rejection, and if approved by said board,
and upon the payment of a fee as set from time to time by resolution of the
board of commissioners, the city clerk shall issue such applicant a
contractor's license which shall expire on April 30 following the date of
issue. (1980 Code § 4-38; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-4: WIREMAN'S LICENSE:
   A.   Application For License: All persons who desire to engage in the
occupation of journeyman's electric wireman shall make application to the city
clerk for a wireman's license. Said application will be referred to the state
examining board who, in turn, will examine the applicant by a written
examination consisting of questions to be answered to ascertain his
qualifications and ability to install electrical wiring, apparatus and
equipment in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the
electrical code herein adopted.
   B.   License Fee; Issuance:
      1.   If, after applicant is examined, the application is approved, the
city clerk shall, upon the receipt of the required fee as set from time to time
by resolution of the board of commissioners, issue a wireman's license which
shall be for a period of one year or a fraction thereof, the same to expire
June 30 following the date of issue. In the event that the applicant fails his
examination, after the expiration of at least thirty (30) days from that date,
he shall be entitled to another examination.
      2.   There shall be a fee as set from time to time by resolution of the
board of commissioners for an apprentice, working under a licensed journeyman
electric wireman.
   C.   License Renewal: Wiremen's licenses may be renewed without examination
therefor prior to the expiration date of the former license. If not renewed
prior to expiration of former license, applicant must again be examined, as
required upon issuance of original license. (1980 Code § 4-40; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-5: INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required; Issuance:
      1.   All electrical contractors, before beginning work on any electrical
installation for lighting, heating or power, must make written application to
the city clerk for each and every installation.
      2.   The city clerk shall issue permits only to contractors whose license
is in full force and effect. (1980 Code § 4-41)
   B.   Permit Fees: Permit fees shall be as set from time to time by
resolution of the board of commissioners. (2002 Code)
9-3-6: STANDARDS:
All electrical construction, all materials, appliances, motors, heating
devices, and apparatus used in connection with electrical work and the
operation of all electrical apparatus within the city limits shall conform to
the rules and requirements of the electrical code where work is performed or
equipment and apparatus installed; however, the necessity, good service and
said results often require larger sizes of wire, more branch circuits, and
better types of equipment than the minimum which is specified in the electrical
code. Therefore, the electrical inspector supervising the enforcement of the
electrical code will have the responsibility and authority for making
interpretations of the rules, for deciding upon the approval of equipment,
materials, construction and for granting the special permission contemplated in
a number of the rules, and the electrical inspector, where necessary, shall
follow the code procedure for securing official interpretations of said
electrical code. (1980 Code § 4-44)
9-3-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Inspection Of Work:
      1.   The electrical inspector shall inspect all wiring and apparatus
covered by any application within forty eight (48) hours after having been
notified that the work is ready for inspection (Sundays and holidays excluded).
      2.   The electrical inspector shall, after making an inspection, report
to the electrical contractor to whom the permit was issued, informing him of
all defects, if any, and requiring him to correct the same.
   B.   Restrictions On Licensee:
      1.   A licensed wireman will not be permitted to install any new wiring
for lighting, heating or power, or make any extensions to existing wiring
systems unless he is working under the supervision of a licensed contractor. A
licensed wireman may make simple repairs to existing wiring systems, or he may
work as a maintenance electrician without being under the supervision of a
licensed contractor.
      2.   A licensed wireman who is not working under the supervision of a
licensed contractor shall be required to report to the electrical inspector on
each change in any wiring which he might do, and to notify the inspector, of
any and all repairs made by him. (1980 Code § 4-45; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-8: RESPONSIBILITIES; NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen
in any manner the responsibilities of any persons, copartnerships or
corporations owning, operating or installing any electrical wiring, apparatus
or equipment from damages that might occur to property or persons injured by
any defect therein. Nor shall the city or any of its agents have the authority
to assume any such liabilities by reason of any inspections that might have
been authorized by work or certificate. (1980 Code § 4-46)
9-3-9: INSPECTION OF WIRING:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, contractor or workman,
whether he is connected with the electrical contractor who is making the wiring
installation or not, to cover up or conceal any wiring before the same has been
inspected and approved by the electrical inspector. (1980 Code § 4-47)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE 1
SECTION:
9-4-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-4-2: Fees
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-8 of this title for penalty provisions.
9-4-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the city the BOCA national and international
mechanical code, current edition, governing the installation, maintenance, and
repair of all heating and air conditioning apparatus in the city, with the city
inspector (code enforcement officer) being responsible for the enforcement and
administration of this code. (Ord. 216, 11-2-1999)
9-4-2: FEES:
Fees for all permits, licenses, and inspections shall be as set from time to
time by resolution of the board of commissioners. (Ord. 216, 11-2-1999; amd.
2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GAS PIPING AND APPLIANCES 1
SECTION:
9-5-1: International Fuel Gas Code Adopted
9-5-2: Gas Fitters, License
9-5-3: License Fees
9-5-4: Testing Gas Meters
9-5-5: Gas Shut Off On Dangerous Fixtures
9-5-6: Tapping Gas Lines; Setting Meters
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-9 of this title for penalty provisions.
9-5-1: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
The international fuel gas code, 2000, or current edition, and as the same may
be revised from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be in
full force and effect in the city, thereby governing the installation of gas
piping and appliances in buildings and facilities in the city. (1980 Code § 4-
28; amd. 2002 Code)
9-5-2: GAS FITTERS, LICENSE:
A license for gas fitters shall be issued by the city clerk for a period of one
year, and may be renewed from year to year upon compliance with all the terms
and conditions of this chapter, upon the payment of a fee as set from time to
time by resolution of the board of commissioners; provided, that such fee shall
not be charged in cases where the license fee has been paid for a license as
provided for a licensed plumber. Provided, that at any time the gas inspector,
with the consent of the board of commissioners, may annul the license, and the
holder of the license shall be prohibited thereafter from the further practice
of gas fitting within the corporate limits of the city. (1980 Code § 4-29; amd.
2002 Code)
9-5-3: LICENSE FEES:
License fees for contractors, journeymen, and apprentices shall be as set from
time to time by resolution of the board of commissioners. (2002 Code)
9-5-4: TESTING GAS METERS:
When a consumer of gas has cause to and does believe his meter is fast, the
city, upon notice, shall remove same and test it in the presence of the gas
inspector. If the meter is found to be more than three percent (3%) fast, the
city shall refund the consumer the amount of overcharge according to the bills
rendered for a period of three (3) months back. Where meter is found to be
correct or slow, the city may collect a charge for reinstalling the same. (1980
Code § 4-31; amd. 2002 Code)
9-5-5: GAS SHUT OFF ON DANGEROUS FIXTURES:
The gas inspector shall shut off or cause to be shut off all gas connections
with residence or business houses in Drumright, where in his judgment, the gas
fitting, ranges, heaters, furnaces, gas lights, and gas appliances are
dangerous. The gas shall remain shut off until such time as the required
changes are made by the property owner or the party installing same. (1980 Code
§ 4-32)
9-5-6: TAPPING GAS LINES; SETTING METERS:
   A.   Tapping Mains By Authorized Persons: No person other than those
employed and authorized by the city shall tap the gas mains; and all
interference with the city's service, pipes, stops, boxes, meters, and other
property is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Responsibilities Of City: Upon request, after application has been
signed by the consumer, the city shall, at its own expense, tap the main and
run a line to the curb and place a stop and box there. The city shall furnish
and set a meter after a suitable place therefor approved by the inspector has
been provided by the consumer. No connections shall be made by the city unless
and until there is on file in their office a certificate issued and signed by
the plumbing inspector to the effect that all gas plumbing work on the premises
to be served by the connections is approved. (1980 Code § 4-33; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Test Required: A test shall be required on all gas shutoffs due to
leaks and for all gas services that have been off for more than three (3)
months.
   D.   Gas Piping Work, Restrictions: No one other than city employees and
persons licensed to do gas piping work shall do such work within the gas
pipeline distribution system. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Codes Adopted
9-6-2: Definition
9-6-3: Enforcement By Fire Department
9-6-4: Modifications
9-6-5: Appeals
9-6-6: New Materials, Processes; Permits
9-6-7: Penalties
9-6-1: CODES ADOPTED:
There are hereby adopted by the board of commissioners, for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, those certain codes known as the national fire
protection association code, the BOCA national fire prevention code and the ICC
international fire code, being particularly the current editions thereof, and
the whole thereof and their amendments from time to time, and the said codes
are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and
from the date on which these codes shall take effect, the provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the limits of the city. (1980 Code § 8-1; amd. 2002
Code)
9-6-2: DEFINITION:
Whenever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention codes, it shall
be held to mean the city of Drumright, Oklahoma. (1980 Code § 8-3)
9-6-3: ENFORCEMENT BY FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Enforcement: The fire prevention codes shall be enforced by the fire
department of the city, under the supervision of the chief of the fire
department.
   B.   Inspectors: The fire chief of the fire department may detail such
members of the fire department as inspectors as shall from time to time be
necessary, and such inspectors may be appointed as the board of commissioners
may authorize. (1980 Code § 8-2)
9-6-4: MODIFICATIONS:
The chief of the fire department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the fire prevention codes upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of these codes,
provided that the spirit of the codes shall be observed, public safety secured,
and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted
or allowed and the decision of the chief of the fire department thereon shall
be entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant. (1980 Code § 8-4)
9-6-5: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the codes do not apply, or that the true intent and meaning of
the codes have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the board of
commissioners within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision of the
chief. (1980 Code § 8-5)
9-6-6: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES; PERMITS:
The city manager and the chief of the fire department shall act as a committee
to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies which shall require permits,
in addition to those now enumerated in said codes. The chief of the fire
department shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his office and
distribute copies thereof to interested persons. (1980 Code § 8-6)
9-6-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed; Remedial Action:
      1.   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of the fire prevention codes hereby adopted or fail to comply
therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plan submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or
permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall
fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the board of
commissioners or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
therein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Enforced Remedy Of Conditions: The application of the above penalty
shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1980 Code § 8-7; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL REHABILITATION 1
SECTION:
9-7-1: Standards Adopted
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-8 of this title for penalty provisions.
9-7-1: STANDARDS ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Ordinance 145, passed and approved by the city commission,
containing chapters 1 through 9 inclusive and entitled: "Minimum Standards for
Residential Rehabilitation", is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this code as if printed in full herein.
   B.   Copies On File: Copies of the standards referred to in subsection A of
this section are on file in the office of the city clerk and are available for
inspection by the public during normal working hours. (1980 Code § 4-58)
CHAPTER 8
OIL AND GAS DRILLING OPERATIONS
SECTION:
9-8-1: General Provisions
9-8-2: Permits
9-8-3: Permit Application Process
9-8-4: Review, Approval Or Denial
9-8-5: Drilling Process And Well Operations
9-8-6: Enforcement
9-8-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Citation, Authority And Jurisdiction: This chapter and these
regulations shall hereafter be known, cited, and referred to as OIL AND GAS
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DRUMRIGHT, OKLAHOMA. These regulations govern the
regulation regarding the road use, traffic, noise, odors, setbacks and fencing
incidental to oil and gas operations within the jurisdictional area of the city
of Drumright.
   B.   Intent And Purpose: Whereas the imprudent operation of an oil and gas
facility can constitute a nuisance to the public health, safety and welfare of
the city of Drumright, it is the intent and purpose of this chapter that oil
and gas operations be reasonably regulated to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the public and for the public good.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply:
    CITY: The municipality of Drumright, Oklahoma.
   CITY COMMISSION: The governing body of the city.
   CITY MANAGER: The chief executive officer of the city.
   COMMERCIAL: When referring to deleterious substance disposal sites, shall be
defined as any disposal site where deleterious substances disposed of are
produced off the lease or transported over lease lines.
   CORPORATION COMMISSION: The Oklahoma corporation commission.
   DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE: Any chemical, saltwater, oil field brine, waste oil,
waste emulsified oil, basic sediment, mud or any injurious substances produced
or used in the drilling, development, producing, transportation, refining and
process of oil, gas or condensate; or any other injurious substances.
   DWELLING: A walled and roofed building that can be lived in or occupied by
inhabitants.
   ENHANCED RECOVERY: An operation by which fluid or energy is introduced into
a source of supply for the purpose of increasing the recovery of oil therefrom
according to a plan which has been approved by the Oklahoma corporation
commission.
   LEASE OWNERS: The name of the mineral owners.
   MAYOR: The chief administrative official of the city.
   NATURAL PRODUCTION: The raising to the surface of the earth, by natural
flow, petroleum or natural gas.
   NATURAL RESOURCES: Any water, air, land, trees, animals, or any other matter
provided by nature.
   OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR: That person, firm, or corporation qualified and
employed by the city of Drumright to enforce the provisions of this chapter, or
by his/her authorized representatives.
   OPERATOR: The person who is duly authorized and in charge of the development
of a lease or the operation of a producing property.
   OWNER: The person or persons who have the right to drill into and to produce
from any common source of supply, and to appropriate the production either for
himself, or for himself and others.
   PERMITTEE: The person to whom is issued a permit or permits under the terms
of this chapter.
   PERSON: Shall mean and include any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, trust, cooperative, limited liability company, or other type of
organization.
   PRESSURE MAINTENANCE: An operation by which gas, water or other fluids are
injected into a supply of oil or gas to maintain pressure or retard pressure
decline therein for the purpose of facilitating recovery.
   REENTER OR REENTRY OR REENTERING: The act of entering a plugged well for the
purpose of utilizing said well for the production of oil or gas, for the
disposal of fluids therein, for a service well, or for the salvaging of tubing
or casing therefrom.
   REWORKING OR WORKOVER ACTIVITIES: One or more of a variety of remedial
operations on a producing well to try to reestablish, maintain, or increase
production. A permit is not necessary to rework a well unless the well is
deepened.
   STATE: The state of Oklahoma, its branches, departments, agencies, boards or
the officers thereof.
   SURVEY OF LOTS AND BLOCKS: A plot of land which has been previously divided
into lots and blocks, and which is filed of record in the county clerk's
office, but which does not meet the requirements of a platted subdivision.
   WELL: Unless specifically stated otherwise, any hole or holes, bore or
bores, to any depth for the purpose of producing and recovering any oil, gas or
liquefied petroleum matter or deleterious substances, or for the injection or
disposal of any of the foregoing.
All technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and not
specifically defined herein shall have that meaning customarily attributable
thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry.
   D.   Oil And Gas Inspector:
      1.   The city commission may employ a qualified person, persons, firm,
limited liability company, corporation or other legal entity as an oil and gas
inspector, whose duty it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to issue such
orders or directives as are required to carry out the intent and purpose of
this chapter and its particular provisions. Failure to abide by any such order
or directive shall be a violation of this chapter.
      3.   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to go upon and
inspect any equipment and any premises covered by the terms of this chapter to
ascertain whether this chapter and the applicable laws, rules, regulations,
standards or directives of the state and federal government are being met.
Failure to permit access to the oil and gas inspector shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 323, 12-12-2016)
9-8-2: PERMITS:
   A.   Permits: It shall be unlawful for any person acting for himself or
acting as agent, servant, employee, subcontractor, or independent contractor or
any other person, to drill an oil and gas well, or operate a producing or
deleterious substance disposal well, or to work upon or assist in any way in
the production or operation of any well, without a permit having first been
issued by the authority of the city commission in accordance with this chapter.
Permits shall be required for the following:
      1.   Drilling an original well (for the exploration for production of oil
or gas);
      2.   Drilling an original well or reentering an existing well (for use as
an injection well, as a disposal well or as a service well);
      3.   Reentering a plugged well;
      4.   Deepening an existing well;
      5.   Operating a well; and
      6.   Drilling or operating an injection well.
All permit applications shall be submitted in a form provided by the city.
Permit applications must be submitted at least thirty (30) days before the city
commission meeting for proper review.
   B.   Location And Setback Requirements:
      1.   Well Location: Drilling operations shall not be in zoned areas RS-1,
RS-2, RS-3, RE, RD, RM-1, RM-2, or RMH, as set forth in zoning ordinances,
since these areas are intended for residential use.
      2.   Injection Wells: All injection wells shall comply with the special
requirements set forth in subsection
9-8-3B of this chapter.
      3.   Permit Location Requirements: In addition to the above, no permit
shall be issued for the drilling of an original well or the reentry of a well,
or for any other purposes, at any location which is:
         a.   Nearer than three hundred feet (300') of any permanent residence,
commercial building, church, school, or building where animals are customarily
kept and are actually being kept prior to the application to drill was made;
         b.   Closer than three hundred feet (300') of a public road right of
way;
         c.   Closer than six hundred feet (600') of a producing fresh water
well;
         d.   Within a platted subdivision;
         e.   Within a survey of lots and blocks; or
         f.   Within three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of a platted
subdivision or survey of lots and blocks.
      4.   Exceptions: Exceptions allowing well location closer than three
hundred feet (300') from a permanent residence, commercial building, fresh
water well, church, school, or building where animals are customarily kept and
are actually being kept prior to the application to drill was made shall be
granted by the city board of trustees, only if written approvals and releases
are obtained from the persons in the following enumerated paragraphs; and said
approvals and releases are filed with the city.
Approvals and releases shall be obtained from:
         a.   Any property owner;
         b.   Any life tenant or remainderman of said permanent residence,
commercial building or structure;
         c.   Any lessee or tenant of said permanent residence, commercial
building, or structure;
         d.   Any mortgagee of said permanent residence, commercial building,
or structure; and
         e.   Any person having an applicable power of attorney over any of the
above stated individuals; provided that said attorney in fact shall provide a
copy of the said power of attorney documentation authorizing the attorney in
fact to act on his behalf, shall provide the address and telephone number of
the person for whom he is acting, and provide his own address and telephone
number before the approval and release shall become effective.
      5.   No Exceptions: Exceptions shall not be granted allowing a well
location to be closer than:
         a.   Three hundred feet (300') of a producing fresh water well;
         b.   Within a platted subdivision;
         c.   Within a survey of lots and blocks which has been filed of record
at the county clerk's office; or
         d.   Three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of a platted
subdivision or a survey of lots and blocks.
      6.   Exceptions; Public Road Right Of Way: Exceptions allowing well
locations closer than three hundred feet (300') from a public road right of way
may be granted at the discretion of the city commissioners.
      7.   100-Year Floodplain: Application to drill an original well or
reenter an abandoned well within the 100-year floodplain shall be subject to
special review by the city manager, who shall provide a recommendation to the
city commission that the flood damage prevention ordinance shall be met.
   C.   Applicability To Existing Conditions: This chapter shall apply to any
person drilling an original well, reentering an abandoned well, conducting
natural or artificial production projects or operations, enhanced recovery,
maintaining a producing well, injection well, a deleterious substance disposal
well within the city of Drumright.
If an operator has complied with the terms of this chapter, obtained the
drilling and operating permits, and thereafter a request is made to deepen or
otherwise enhance or modify the permitted well, the city will consider the well
preexisting to any subsequent encroachments that have occurred since the well
was originally permitted.
Any well in operation prior to the date of this chapter, or any well for which
a plugging report has not been filed with the Oklahoma corporation commission,
shall obtain a permit to operate. (Ord. 323, 12-12-2016)
9-8-3: PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Permit Application To Drill An Original Well For The Exploration Of Oil
Or Gas:
      1.   Every application for a permit to drill an original well for the
exploration of oil or gas shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or by
some person duly authorized to sign same on the applicant's behalf, and it
shall be filed with the city clerk and be accompanied by a filing fee and
deposit in an amount established by the city commission. Said application shall
state:
         a.   The name and address of applicant and date of application.
         b.   A block map of the forty (40) acres certified by a licensed
surveyor, drawn to scale, with the drill site located in the center of the map
and including the area surrounding the drill site, including thereon
topographical contour lines, the location of the proposed access road, tank
battery(ies) and any other surface facilities, the location of the proposed
well, and distance therefrom to all existing platted subdivisions, dwelling
houses, buildings, or other structures designed for the occupancy of human
beings or animals, within three hundred feet (300') of any such well, the
location of all public roads, rights of way, and the location of all existing
oil, gas or fresh water wells within said forty (40) acre tract.
         c.   The names of the surface, lease owners, life tenants, if any,
remaindermen, if any, lessee or tenant, and the name of the mortgagee, if any.
         d.   A drilling prognosis, to specify in detail the depth of the well,
the amount, weight, and size of conductor pipe, surface pipe, and casing and
the procedures to be used for cementing such, and all other information
required by the city. Plugging procedures to be used in the event production is
not established shall also be specified.
         e.   A statement of the provisions for water for the drilling rig.
         f.   The name and address of the person within the state of Oklahoma
upon whom service of process upon applicant may be made within this state; and
in the case of any nonresident person who has no such service agent within this
state, there shall be attached to the application the designation of the
secretary of state for the state of Oklahoma as service agent and a consent
that service of summons may be made upon such person in any action to enforce
any of the obligations of the applicant hereunder.
         g.   A verification of the above information by the applicant
hereunder.
         h.   A verification signed by the applicant, the owner of the well,
and the operator and landowner saying that they will all abide by this chapter.
The landowner shall grant the right of entry and access to the location as
identified in the application to the oil and gas inspector and any other
representative of the city, for the purpose of review of the application
information and to periodically inspect the premises for compliance of this
chapter.
         i.   A copy of the approved drilling permit from the corporation
commission, any orders issued by the corporation commission, and a copy of the
staking plat shall be filed with the city prior to issuance of the municipal
permit.
         j.   The names of all entities or persons who are the actual
operators, producers and drillers of the site, and all other entities involved
in the drilling process and all persons who are contracting, subcontracting,
moving of the rig, or meeting plugging requirements, if known at the time the
application is made.
   B.   Permit Application To Drill An Original Well Or Reenter An Existing
Well For Use As An Injection Well, Disposal Well Or A Service Well:
      1.   No person shall drill an original well to be used for enhanced
recovery, injection, or disposal of salt water or other deleterious substances,
or a service well; or reenter an existing well for these same purposes, without
first obtaining the necessary permit therefor. Such permit shall consist of two
(2) separate parts:
         a.   Permit to drill or reenter, and
         b.   Permit to operate.
      2.   The city recognizes the vital importance of water for each and every
household within the city's incorporated limits. The corporation commission's
rules provide that no commercial disposal well shall be allowed within the
"wellhead protection area" as defined by USC section 300h-7 (which provides for
public water systems). Oklahoma's wellhead protection program is to minimize
the risk of pollution by limiting activities on the land around public water
supply wells.
      3.   An application for the permit to drill or reenter a well for
enhanced recovery, injection, or substance disposal, or a service well shall be
in the same form as that required for a permit to drill an original well, as
provided for in section 11-301, and shall contain complete information as may
be required by the oil and gas inspector and including the following:
         a.   If the application is for a permit to drill or reenter a well for
substance disposal, applicant must state whether the well will be used for
commercial purposes. No permit to operate or permit to drill or reenter any
substance disposal well shall be allowed within a distance of two thousand six
hundred forty feet (2,640') (1/2 mile) radius from any water well. A lesser
distance may be allowed if written consent is received from seventy five
percent (75%) of the property owners within two thousand six hundred forty feet
(2,640') (1/2 mile) radius of the proposed disposal well.
         b.   A block map by a certified surveyor drawn to scale of the well
site showing all equipment to be used thereon, location of pipelines, access
roads, and distances from the well to any and all fences, public roadways,
rights of way, platted subdivisions, dwelling houses, buildings, or other
structures designed for the occupancy of human beings or animals, within six
hundred feet (600') of any such well, the location of all public roads, rights
of way, and the location of all existing oil, gas or fresh water wells within
said forty (40) acre tract.
         c.   A block map by a certified surveyor of the project drawn to
scale, showing the location of:
            (1)   Each and every water supply well within a one-half (1/2) mile
(2,640 foot) radius of each injection or disposal well (included with the
application shall be a list of each property owner's name and mailing address);
            (2)   All water supply wells, disposal wells, injection wells,
producing wells and plugged and abandoned wells within the project area and
those sections immediately adjacent;
            (3)   All conduits; and
            (4)   Tank battery, pumping station and appurtenant equipment.
         d.   All wells within the project area and those sections immediately
adjacent shall be indicated by status (e.g., plugged and abandoned, injection,
salt water, oil, etc.), and show the following additional information:
            (1)   Footage location (surface casing);
            (2)   Derrick floor and ground level elevation;
            (3)   Drilled total depth;
            (4)   Packer body total depth;
            (5)   Size, depth and quality of surface and production casing,
including zones from which casing has been removed;
            (6)   Location of all plugs, packers, cement plugs, tubing anchors,
etc., with the well bore;
            (7)   Depth and nature of all cement squeeze jobs;
            (8)   Formation name and depth of all open perforations in a
producing open hole;
            (9)   Volume and type of cement used on surface and production
strings; and
            (10)   Top of cement.
         e.   One copy of all electric, mechanical, sample and driller's logs.
         f.   Operation name for each well.
         g.   One copy of all cement bond logs and production logs.
         h.   One copy of all work performed on the well.
         i.   Copies of all information supplied to the corporation commission,
and said commission's approval of the project.
      4.   Upon the completion of the application required hereunder, the oil
and gas inspector shall have thirty (30) business days to review same and make
a recommendation of approval or disapproval to the city manager and the city
commission.
   C.   Permit Application To Reenter A Plugged Well:
      1.   Where the application is one for the reentry of an abandoned or
plugged well, said application shall contain all the information required
above, in addition to all other required information, the following shall be
provided:
A statement of:
         a.   The then condition of the well.
         b.   The depth to which it is proposed such well shall be deepened.
         c.   The proposed casing program to be used in connection with the
proposed deepening; and
      2.   Evidence of adequate current tests showing that the casing strings
currently passed the same tests that are required in the case of the drilling
of an original well.
   D.   Permit Application To Deepen An Existing Well: Where the application is
one for the deepening of an existing well, such permits shall be issued by the
city without the necessity of approval by the board of trustees. Said operating
permits shall be issued only after bringing the well into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and all provisions of the Oklahoma corporation
commission are met.
   E.   Permit To Operate An Original Well For The Exploration Or Production Of
Oil Or Gas: Such permits shall be issued by the city without the necessity of
approval by the city commission. Said operating permits shall be issued only
after bringing the well into compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
all provisions of the Oklahoma corporation commission are met.
   F.   Permit/Application To Operate An Injection Well, Disposal Well Or A
Service Well:
      1.   Prior to placing any enhanced recovery, injection, substance
disposal well, or service well into operation, a permit to operate such well
shall be obtained from the city. Every application for a permit to operate such
well shall contain the following information:
         a.   All the information required in subsection B of this section; and
         b.   Depth to static water level (hydrostatic head). Such data shall
be obtained by means of a method approved by the oil and gas inspector. Such
data shall be obtained not less than forty eight (48) hours after openings have
been made through the casing into the injection disposal zone or zones.
      2.   Copies of applicable corporation commission forms indicating
successful pressure testing of each injection well or substance disposal well
at a pressure greater than the maximum proposed for the project, or if no such
forms have been filed and approved, then sufficient evidence of the successful
pressure testing of each injection well.
      3.   Domestic and public water supply wells located within a radius of
one-half (1/2) of a mile of any enhanced recovery, injection, disposal well,
service well, shall be tested prior to beginning injection or disposal and
thereafter semiannually for the presence of deleterious substances, such as
chlorides, sulfates and dissolved solids. Such testing is the responsibility of
the permittee and at permittee's sole expense, and shall be conducted by a
person approved by the oil and gas inspector. Said oil and gas inspector shall
be notified five (5) days in advance of such testing and may be present during
testing. Test results shall be filed with the city upon completion. (Ord. 323,
12-12-2016)
9-8-4: REVIEW, APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
   A.   City Commission Review Of Permit Recommendations: Once an application
to drill an original well or reentry of an existing well permit, required by
the terms of this chapter has been made, the city manager shall ensure the
thorough review of the application. The city manager shall recommend approval
or disapproval to the city commission, based on the review by the oil and gas
inspector, the review and completeness of the application, the site, and
overall compliance with this chapter. The city commission shall review the
application at a regularly scheduled meeting or special meeting, and thereupon
approve or disapprove the permit with or without the addition of any conditions
thereto.
   B.   Issuance Or Refusal Of Permit:
      1.   The city manager within thirty (30) business days after the filing
of an application for a permit under this chapter shall determine whether or
not said application complies in all respects with the provisions of this
chapter and applicable federal and state law, and, if it does, shall recommend
to the mayor and city commission that the permit, with an accompanying number
thereon, be issued. Each permit issued under the terms of this chapter shall:
         a.   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
therein;
         b.   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of
applicable federal and state law, and the rules, regulations and standards
adopted in accordance therewith relating to the protection of human beings,
animals, and natural resources;
         c.   Specify that the term of said permit shall be for a period of six
(6) months from the date of approval unless drilling operations have commenced,
or, unless an application for an extension has been filed and approved, and for
like periods thereafter upon the successful inspection of the permittee's well
and operations.
         d.   Specify such conditions imposed by the oil and gas inspector as
are authorized by this chapter.
         e.   A permit to drill or operate may be denied for the following
reasons:
            (1)   Failure to comply with the terms of any of the city's
ordinances;
            (2)   Failure to comply with the oil and gas inspector's
directives; or
            (3)   Because the applicant is not complying with the laws or
corporation commission regulations.
      2.   If the permit be issued, it shall, in two (2) originals, be signed
by the oil and gas inspector and the permittee, and when so signed shall
constitute the permittee's license to drill and operate in the city and the
contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms of such permit
and applicable state law, rules, regulations, standards and directives. One
executed copy of said permit shall be retained by the oil and gas inspector;
one executed copy shall be retained by the permittee and shall be kept
available for inspection by any city or state law enforcement official who may
demand to see the same; and one executed copy shall be retained by the city.
   C.   Application For Extension Of Drilling Permit: If the permittee has not
commenced drilling operations within six (6) months from obtaining the original
permit to drill, the permittee shall file an application for an extension and
pay the fee associated with the same. If the application for extension is
received prior to the expiration of the original permit, city staff, may grant
the extension providing if after examining the information, no material change
of condition has occurred. If granted, the extension shall be for an additional
six (6) month period of time. If all requirements are not current and up to
date, or if there has been a material change of condition, then the extension
shall be denied and the permit shall expire.
Only one extension shall be allowed. (Ord. 323, 12-12-2016)
9-8-5: DRILLING PROCESS AND WELL OPERATIONS:
   A.   Ingress And Egress: No well shall be drilled, and no permit shall be
issued for any well to be drilled at any location which is within any of the
streets, roads or alleys of the city; and no street or alley shall be blocked
or encumbered or closed in any drilling or production operation except with the
written approval of the city and then only temporarily.
All leasehold roads shall be kept in a passable condition and shall be made
accessible at all times for representatives and field inspectors of the
corporation commission, the city's oil and gas inspector, or other appropriate
persons. A well road shall not be used by residents of a subdivision for egress
and/or ingress.
Access road location. The location of any access road necessary for the
drilling of an original well or the reentry of an abandoned well shall be
located in a manner to reduce any negative impact on surrounding residences.
Lease roads shall be maintained in such a manner as to safely and comfortably
allow for ingress and egress of city or state personnel traveling in a common
passenger motor vehicle.
   B.   Noise And Other Nuisances: All oil operations, drilling and production
operations shall be conducted in such a manner as to eliminate, as far as
practicable, dust, noise, vibration or noxious odors, and shall be in
accordance with the best accepted practices incident to exploration for,
drilling for and production of oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances.
Proven technological improvements in exploration, drilling and production
methods shall be adopted as they become, from time to time, available, if
capable of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance.
   C.   Fences: Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have the
obligation to enclose said well, together with its surface facilities, by a
fence sufficiently high and properly built so as to ordinarily keep persons and
animals out of the enclosure with all gates thereto to be kept locked when the
permittee or his employees are not within the enclosure. The fence shall
consist of no less than 121/2-gauge, five (5) strands of barbed wire with six
foot (6') steel T-posts of 1.25-gauge, set every ten feet (10'). More stringent
or secure fencing may be required by the city. Fences must be kept locked at
all times workers of permittee are not present; a duplicate set of keys to said
lock shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector. (Ord. 323, 12-12-2016)
9-8-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Compliance With Applicable Laws: No person shall drill an original
well, deepen a well, or reenter an abandoned well for any purpose, or allow any
well, structure, equipment, pipeline, machinery, tank or other appurtenance, in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or the laws, rules,
regulations, operative standards or directives of the state.
   B.   Complaints: If, upon information or inspection, it is found that a
permittee is violating any portion of this chapter or violation of any
corporation commission rules and regulations, the permittee shall take
immediate action to discontinue the conduct that is resulting in the violation.
Otherwise, formal application will be made to the city commission for an order
revoking the permit, and for any other appropriate remedy.
   C.   Enforcement And Administration:
      1.   These regulations shall be enforced by the oil and gas inspector, or
a designated representative acting at the direction of the city commission, who
shall review all permit applications and the citizen's premises for compliance
with oil and gas ordinance provisions. The oil and gas inspector has the right
to go onto a citizen's premises for the purpose of inspecting the property to
be able to determine compliance with the city's ordinances.
      2.   It shall be a violation of these regulations for any person to
drill, or reenter a well for any purpose without first obtaining the proper
approval of a permit as provided in these regulations.
      3.   In the event there is a violation of the terms of this chapter, the
corporation commission's rules and regulations, or any federal law, then the
city may seek any relief accorded by the law of the state of Oklahoma or any
other relief set forth in this chapter.
      4.   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by any affected
person through injunctive proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction.
For the purposes of this section, the word "person" shall include, but not be
limited to, the city of Drumright and a private citizen. In the event a lawsuit
is filed, attorney fees, court costs, and all other costs to the city shall be
recovered.
      5.   In the event the oil and gas inspector has given a directive to the
permittee and/or operator to do an act which is in compliance with this chapter
and the permittee has not complied with the directive, the city may cause the
work to be done so that the permittee/operator is in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount
not to exceed the limits established by state law. Each day upon which such
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      2.   In case any well is drilled, reentered or operated in violation of
this chapter, the city of Drumright, Oklahoma, in addition to other remedies
available, may institute any proper action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful activities, in order to restrain, correct or abate such violation.
Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city of Drumright from filing suit
against the owner, operator, or permittee for violations of the provisions of
this chapter and seeking injunction, abatement of a nuisance or removal of the
nonconformity or any other appropriate relief as may be granted by the district
court. In the event a lawsuit is initiated, the city of Drumright shall be
entitled to all fines, attorney fees and costs incurred in the said lawsuit,
which shall include the costs of bringing the action, service of process,
expert fees, the costs associated with the oil and gas inspector, and any and
all other costs which have been incurred.
      3.   The cost of removing or abating any nonconformity or nuisance may be
collected by any other legal means available.
      4.   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate the
nuisance, the city of Drumright may bring suit in the district court. All costs
of bringing the suit, which shall include attorney fees, service of process
fees, expert fees, all costs associated with abating the nonconformity or
nuisance, fines, costs associated with the oil and gas inspector, and all other
costs shall be assessed against the permittee/operator/driller as provided
herein.
      5.   Any violation of this chapter shall result in the city of Drumright
requesting and recouping from the violator all costs associated with the
enforcement of this chapter, including, but not limited to, all attorney fees,
court costs and all other costs associated with the oil and gas inspector's
time and expenses. (Ord. 323, 12-12-2016)
CHAPTER 9
MOBILE HOMES; TRAILERS; PARKS 1
SECTION:
9-9-1: Definitions
9-9-2: Permit Required; Fee
9-9-3: General Requirements
9-9-4: Location And Placement
9-9-5: Square Footage Restriction
9-9-6: Acquisition Of Park Permit
9-9-7: Park Construction, Maintenance And Operation
9-9-8: Applicability Of Regulations And Codes
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-8 of this title for penalty provisions.
9-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
HOUSE TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME: All equipment designed and/or manufactured for
use for human occupancy to which customarily there is attached or may be
attached wheels for mobility, whether or not the wheels have been attached
thereto or removed therefrom.
OWNER: The actual legal or equitable owner or owners of the park and his or
their agents, employees, trustees and assigns.
PARKING SITE: Shall mean and be the same as a residential building lot as
defined in the zoning and other ordinances of the city, and is the area within
the park platted for the purpose of placing thereon a house trailer or mobile
home.
TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME PARK: An area within the city of Drumright wherein
sites, utilities, and facilities are furnished by the owner of such park to the
owners of house trailers or mobile homes desiring to avail themselves of the
facilities afforded by the owner of the park, and shall hereinafter be referred
to a "park". (1980 Code § 4-107)
9-9-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: Prior to a mobile home's lot or location placement an
initial permit shall be obtained, and before any utility connections may be
made to the property or trailers, final inspection shall be obtained,
certifying that all sections referred to herein have been complied with.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   There shall be a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the
issuance of any permit herein. Such fee shall include final inspection. Said
fee shall be paid by the property owner or his agent to the city clerk, who
shall issue a receipt for same.
      2.   All such fees collected by the city clerk shall be deposited to the
credit of the city general fund. (Ord. 316, 4-13-2015)
9-9-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Anchoring And Skirting: All mobile homes must be anchored when
delivered, and skirted within thirty (30) days.
   B.   Placement Above Floodplain: Mobile homes must be placed one foot (1')
above floodplain, and must have an engineer survey certificate.
   C.   Work Done By Contractors: All electric, plumbing and mechanical work
must be done by licensed contractors. (Ord. 316, 4-13-2015)
9-9-4: LOCATION AND PLACEMENT:
   A.   All mobile homes or trailers containing five hundred (500) square feet
or more shall be included in the definition of "house trailer or mobile home".
   B.   Prior to placement upon any lots or land within the limits of the city,
all owners of mobile homes or trailers shall fully conform with the minimum
standards for dwellings and obtain a building permit, except as to the square
footage provision, which minimum shall be five hundred (500) square feet.
   C.   Prior to placement upon any lots or land within the limits of the city,
all owners of mobile homes or trailers shall notify the city of Drumright in
writing of their intention to place a mobile home at a specific address. The
owner must also provide the city of Drumright with the trailer's size
specifications, and the trailer's year of manufacture.
   D.   Prior to placement upon any lots or land within the limits of the city,
all owners of mobile homes or trailers shall address the city commission so the
commission can ensure all requirements have been met.
   E.   All actions required to obtain a zoning exception remain in effect.
(Ord. 316, 4-13-2015)
9-9-5: SQUARE FOOTAGE RESTRICTION:
No mobile homes or trailers containing less than seven hundred twenty (720)
square feet shall be placed in any location inside the city limits except in
regularly established and designated mobile home or trailer parks. (Ord. 316,
4-13-2015)
9-9-6: ACQUISITION OF PARK PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No park shall be constructed, maintained, or operated
without first securing a permit therefor from the city clerk, and no permit
shall be issued until the provisions of this chapter and other applicable
ordinances of the city have been complied with.
   B.   Plans And Specifications: There shall accompany said application, in
addition to any other information required by the ordinances of the city,
schematic drawings of, and the plans and specifications for, all buildings and
other improvements constructed or to be constructed within the park. All such
plans and specifications, including, but not confined to, site size, density
limitations, and setback requirements shall conform to all ordinances and codes
of the city, and said park shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in
accordance therewith. (1980 Code § 4-108)
9-9-7: PARK CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION:
In addition to any other applicable ordinances of the city in constructing,
maintaining, and operating said park, the owner shall provide for, and be
governed by, the following regulations:
   A.   Parking; Residential Character: The park shall accommodate not less
than twenty (20) parking sites and shall be properly maintained so as to assure
the desirable residential character of the park.
   B.   Streets:
      1.   All dedicated public streets within the park shall be fifty feet
(50') in width, and the owner shall dedicate to the public for use as a public
street such amount of land as is necessary for that purpose.
      2.   All public streets within the park, and streets therein shall be
graded, curbed, and surfaced with concrete or asphalt in accordance with plans
and specifications to be approved by the city engineer to a width of twenty
seven feet (27') from back of curb to back of curb. In lieu of a curb, an
abutment can be constructed which must be approved by the city engineer.
   C.   Trailer Site Parking Space: Each trailer site must have at least one
off street parking space.
   D.   Water, Sewer And Garbage:
      1.   Services Provided: When available, water, sanitary sewer, and
garbage disposal will be furnished by the city. The owner shall install at his
expense the necessary fire hydrants, and the necessary sanitary sewer lines to
properly serve the park. Each site shall be served with a separate sanitary
sewer connection and a separate water service at least five-eighths inch (5/8")
in diameter.
      2.   Charges Imposed; Regulations:
         a.   The charges for water service and garbage disposal service, or
either of them, may be established by contract with the city.
         b.   The water may be supplied through a master main, and the garbage
may be deposited and picked up at a common collection point, or from each site.
         c.   In the event common collection of garbage is desired, the owner
will construct, at a place convenient to all sites, a concrete pad and place
thereon sufficient trash containers, acceptable to the city, to serve the park.
(1980 Code § 4-109)
         d.   In any event, the owners shall be liable to the city for all
charges for water, sanitary sewer service, and garbage disposal service
furnished by the city in accordance with the charges fixed by contract or
established by ordinance. If individual garbage disposal service is desired,
the charges fixed for such service by contract or by ordinance shall be
assessed to each site whether or not it is occupied and shall be ten dollars
($10.00) per month per site. (1980 Code § 4-109; amd. 2002 Code)
9-9-8: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS AND CODES:
All ordinances and codes of the city and all state mobile home regulations
shall apply to the location, construction, maintenance, operation, use and
occupancy of said parks and house trailers and mobile homes therein, except as
otherwise specifically provided herein; and the owners shall comply with and
conform to any federal housing administration standards or regulations in
regard to such parks. (1980 Code § 4-110; amd. 2002 Code)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSES, DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purposes
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-1-5: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING CODE OF THE CITY OF
DRUMRIGHT, OKLAHOMA. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-1-2: PURPOSES:
This title is enacted for the purposes of promoting the health, safety, peace,
morals, comfort, convenience, prosperity, order and general welfare; lessening
danger and congestion of public transportation and travel; securing safety from
fire and other dangers; preventing overcrowding of land; avoiding undue
concentration of population; providing adequate light and air, police
protection, transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, forest,
recreational facilities, military and naval facilities, and other public
requirements, and preventing undue encroachment thereon; conserving the value
of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land; encouraging the
industrial, commercial and residential growth of the community; and promoting
the development of the community in accordance with a comprehensive plan. (Ord.
165, 12-6-1983)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Validity Of Other Laws: Where this title imposes a greater restriction
upon the use of structures or land or upon height or bulk of structures, or
requires larger open space or yards than are imposed by other ordinances, laws,
or regulations, the provisions of this title shall prevail, but shall not be
construed to prevent the enforcement of other ordinances, laws, or regulations
which prescribe more restrictive limitations.
   B.   Severability: In case any portion of this title shall be invalid or
unconstitutional, as declared by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of the title shall not thereby be invalid, but shall remain in full
force and effect.
   C.   Tense And Definition: For the purpose of this title, certain terms and
words are to be used and interpreted as defined in section
10-1-5 of this chapter: words used in the present tense shall include the
future tense; words in the singular number include the plural and words in the
plural number include the singular, except where the natural construction of
the writing indicates otherwise. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Territorial Jurisdiction: This title shall be in full force and effect
and shall apply to all lands within the incorporated limits of the city.
   B.   Annexed Territory: When any territory shall be brought into the zoning
jurisdiction of the city, by annexation or otherwise, such territory shall be
deemed to be in the AG agriculture district. This provision shall not operate
to preclude subsequent rezoning of such property by amendment in the manner set
forth in chapter 14 of this title.
   C.   Property Owned, Leased Or Operated: Property owned, leased or operated
by the city, or any other public or governmental body or agency shall be
subject to the terms of this title. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
ABUTTING: In the context of a screening or enclosure requirement, abutting
shall mean contiguous or separated therefrom only by a nonarterial street. In
other instances, abutting shall mean contiguous.
ACCESSORY USES OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
ALL WEATHER MATERIAL: A material capable, during ordinary use, of withstanding,
without substantial deterioration, normal weather conditions.
ALLEY: A permanent public way providing a secondary means of access for service
and emergency vehicles, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
ARTERIAL: A street designated on the major street plan as a primary arterial or
secondary arterial.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board of adjustment of the city of Drumright,
Oklahoma.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The governing and legislative body of the city of
Drumright, Oklahoma.
BUILDING: A structure which is permanently affixed to the land, and has one or
more floors and a roof, and is bounded by either another building with a common
party wall, open air, or the lot lines of a lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average ground
elevation at the building wall to the highest horizontal point of the
structure, provided that height exceptions listed under section
10-4-8 of this title shall apply.
BUILDING SETBACK: The horizontal distance, from the point of measurement, such
as the centerline of an abutting street or the boundary line of an abutting
zoning district to the nearest building wall.
CARE HOME: Premises used for the housing and caring for the aged or infirm, and
includes convalescent homes, homes for the aged, and nursing homes.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the interment of human remains
and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such
cemetery.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: An official certificate issued by the city through
the enforcing official which indicates conformance with the zoning regulations
and authorizes legal use of the premises for which it is issued.
CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place, home, or institution which cares for four (4) or
more children under the age of sixteen (16) years, apart from their parents,
guardians, or custodians, for regular periods of time for compensation;
provided, however, that the term "childcare center" shall not include or apply
to bona fide schools, custody fixed by a court, children related by blood or
marriage within the third degree of the custodial person, or churches and other
religious or public institutions caring for children within an institutional
building.
CITY MANAGER: The chief administrative officer of the city of Drumright,
Oklahoma, or his designee.
CLUSTER HOUSING DEVELOPMENT: A residential development containing attached or
detached units on a limited portion of land with the remaining land areas
consolidated into common open space areas.
COPY AREA: The net geometric area enclosed by the smallest rectangles
encompassing the outer extremities of all letters, figures, characters, and
delineations contained in the sign.
CURB LEVEL: The mean level of the established curb at the frontage of a lot.
Where no curb has been established, the city engineer shall establish such curb
level or its equivalent for the purposes of this title.
DAYCARE: See definition of Childcare Center.
DWELLING, DUPLEX: A building containing two (2) dwelling units designed for
occupancy by not more than two (2) families. Included are all forms of
manufactured duplex dwellings but excluding mobile homes.
DWELLING, MANUFACTURED: A structure designed and intended for human occupancy
on a year round or temporary or seasonal basis which has undergone at least
partial prefabrication or preassembly under indoor factory conditions,
excluding dwellings utilizing only prefabricated or preassembled subelements
such as roof trusses, floor trusses, plumbing trees, or wiring harness.
Included are the following subclasses:
   A.   Precut: A manufactured dwelling involving no preassembly but all
components have been cut and fabricated and then assembled on site.
   B.   Pannelized: A manufactured dwelling partially preassembled into roof,
wall, floor, and ceiling components (which may range from exposed wood to
having all finishing completed) which are assembled on site, and constructed to
building code standards.
   C.   Sectionalized Or Modular: A manufactured dwelling partially
preassembled into two (2) or more sections, none of which are habitable
individually, permanently joined together and utilizing customary residential
siding and roofing materials, installed according to the manufacturers'
specifications for those materials, and are either:
      1.   Wood frame units designed to be transported by flat bed truck and
installed on conventional permanent foundation; or
      2.   Chassis/under carriage units designed to be towed or structurally
capable of being towed on wheels and installed on permanent foundations after
all hitches, running gear and chassis have been removed.
   D.   Mobile Home: A manufactured dwelling either:
      1.   Fully preassembled into one unit or one expandable/telescoping unit
and is fully habitable upon arrival at a site except for minor and incidental
installation activities and utility connections and installed on either a
temporary or permanent foundation; or
      2.   A dwelling manufactured in two (2) or more units but which fails to
utilize a conventional permanent foundation or customary, residential roofing
and siding materials installed according to the manufacturers' specifications
for the materials or which retains chassis or other equipment related to being
towed.
DWELLING MULTI-FAMILY: A building containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
Included are all forms of manufactured multi- family dwellings, but excluding
mobile homes.
DWELLING SINGLE-FAMILY: A building, including all types of manufactured
dwellings except mobile homes, containing one dwelling unit designed for
occupancy by not more than one family, and certified as complying with the
building code of this jurisdiction whether constructed on or off site.
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: Any device that may be used to deliver any
aerosolized or vaporized substance to the person inhaling from the device,
including, but not limited to, an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-
hookah. Electronic smoking devices include any component, part, or accessory of
the device, and also includes any substance that may be aerosolized or
vaporized by such device, whether or not the substance contains nicotine.
Electronic smoking device does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit; provided, that
unless all members are related by blood, marriage, or other domestic bonds, no
such family shall contain over three (3) persons, but further provided, that
domestic servants may be housed on the premises without being designated as a
family.
FLOODPLAIN: The land area adjoining a watercourse or drainway which would be
inundated by the floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood, based on full
urbanization of the watershed, as predicted by the city engineer, or as
predicted by the U.S. corps of engineers and confirmed by the city engineer.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a watercourse or drainway and those portions of the
adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood as predicted by the city engineer,
or as predicted by the U.S. corps of engineers and confirmed by the city
engineer.
FLOODWAY FRINGE: Those portions of the floodplain which are not reasonably
required to carry and discharge the floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood
as predicted by the city engineer, or as predicted by the U.S. corps of
engineers and confirmed by the city engineer.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The total floor space within the outside dimensions of a
building, including each floor level.
FLOOR AREA, NET: The area actually occupied, not including accessory unoccupied
areas such as corridors, stairs, closets, thickness of walls, columns, toilet
room, mechanical area or other features.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The floor area of a building or buildings on a lot divided by
the lot area.
FRONTAGE: The lineal measurement of a lot boundary which abuts a public street
or the lineal measurement of the building setback line when the boundary of the
lot abuts a curbed nonarterial street or cul-de-sac.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, heating, cooking or recreation or a combination thereof.
HALFWAY HOUSE: A building used in whole or in part as a treatment center and
dwelling quarters for persons unrelated by blood or marriage, who are
undergoing care or rehabilitation for alcoholism or other forms of drug abuse.
HEIGHT, BUILDING: See definition of Building Height.
HEIGHT, SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the curb level to the highest
point of the sign.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or activity conducted within a dwelling unit
which is clearly incidental and subordinate to the use of the premises for
dwelling purposes.
KENNEL: The use of land or building for the purpose of selling, breeding,
boarding or training cats or dogs, or both.
LAND AREA: The area of a lot plus one-half (1/2) or thirty feet (30'),
whichever is less, of the right of way of any abutting street to which the lot
has access.
LIVABILITY SPACE: The open space of a lot which is not allocated to or used for
off street parking or loading areas or for paved access to the off street
parking or loading area.
LOADING BERTH, OFF STREET: A space of at least ten feet (10') in width and
thirty feet (30') in length and having a vertical clearance of at least
fourteen feet (14'), designed and located on a lot for the temporary parking of
commercial vehicles while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
LOT: A lot of record, said lot which is part of an addition, the plat of which
has been recorded in the office of the county clerk, or a parcel of land the
deed of which is recorded in the office of the county clerk.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
LOT LINE: Any boundary of a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street. Where the
lot abuts more than one street, the owner may select the front lot line.
LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot which is not distant from and most nearly
parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line nor a rear
lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the county clerk of the county in which the lot
is located, or a parcel of land, the deed of which is recorded in the office of
the county clerk of the county in which the parcel is located.
LOT WIDTH: The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
MAJOR STREET PLAN: "The City of Drumright, Oklahoma, Major Street Plan", as
adopted by the board of commissioners of Drumright, Oklahoma.
MINISTORAGE: A building containing small partitioned storage spaces, which are
separately and individually rented or leased, for the storage of personal goods
or merchandise, but excluding commercial warehousing as described in use unit
22, section
10-11-22 of this title.
MOBILE HOME: See definition of Dwelling, Manufactured.
n/a: Not applicable.
NEC: Not elsewhere classified.
NAMEPLATE: A sign, attached flush against a building, identifying the name of
the building or the name of an occupant thereof.
100-YEAR FREQUENCY FLOOD: A flood having an average frequency of occurrence
once in one hundred (100) years, although the flood may occur in any year,
based on statistical analyses of stream flow records available for the
watershed and analyses of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the general
region of the watershed, as predicted by the city engineer, or as predicted by
the U.S. corps of engineers and confirmed by the city engineer.
OVERSPEED CONTROL: A mechanism used to limit the speed of blade rotation to
below the design limits of the wind energy conversion system (WECS).
PARKING DURATION: The length of time an individual vehicle remains in a given
parking space. Duration is a function of the driver's trip and purpose, and
increases with increasing city size.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: A space on a lot intended and reserved for the
parking of an automobile. Such space shall be of at least nine and one-half
feet (91/2') in width by nineteen feet (19') in length, together with a
driveway connecting the space with a street or alley and permitting safe
ingress or egress of an automobile.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A discretionary type of development for a tract of
land under single ownership or control, based upon an approved development plan
permitting flexibility of principal land uses, lot sizes, and accessory uses
not otherwise available under conventional development standards.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The city of Drumright, Oklahoma, planning commission.
PLAYGROUNDS: Any area used for outdoor play or recreation, especially by
children, and often containing recreational equipment such as slides and
swings.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular structure portable or self- propelled
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel use or recreational use not
exceeding thirty five feet (35') in length.
SCHOOL: Any property, building, permanent structure, facility, auditorium,
stadium, arena, or recreational facility owned, leased or under the control of
a public school district or private school or any educational facility that is
accredited by the state of Oklahoma.
   School includes all licensed childcare facilities, kindergartens, elementary
schools, which may include either K-6 or K-8, and all secondary schools.
   School includes any institution within the Oklahoma State System of Higher
Education or any other public or private college or university that is
accredited by a national accrediting body.
SETBACK: A horizontal distance determining the location of a building with
respect to a street, use district boundary line, or another use. Where the term
"setback" is used in conjunction with a modifying word or words such as
"parking area", the setback shall in its application include, but not be
limited to, buildings.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: Any dwelling or portion thereof that is available for use or
is used for accommodation or lodging of guest paying a fee or other
compensation for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive days; a short-
term rental shall not contain more than four (4) bedrooms.
SIGN: Any fabricated display structure including its support, consisting of any
letter, figure, character, mark, poster pointer, marquee advertisement, design,
picture, stripe, trademark, reading matter, or illuminating device,
constructed, attached, erected, fastened or manufactured in any manner
whatsoever so that the same shall be used for the attraction of the public to
any place, subject, person, firm, corporation, public performance, article,
machine or merchandise and displayed in any manner for recognized advertising
purposes.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment conducted on the premises.
SIGN, CANOPY: A sign wholly supported by a canopy projecting from a building or
an extended roof or pitched roof and which does not extend above the mean
height level of the roof of the building.
SIGN, CONSTRUCTION: A temporary sign erected during the period of construction
advertising the construction of improvements on the property.
SIGN, GROUND: A sign which is attached to or is a part of a self- supporting
structure, other than a building or portion of a building.
SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, or entertainment, sold or offered elsewhere than the
premises and only incidentally on the premises, if at all.
SIGN, PORTABLE: A sign which is not permanently affixed to the ground or a
building.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign affixed to a building and which extends horizontally
more than twelve inches (12") from the sign supporting portion of the building.
SIGN, REAL ESTATE: A temporary sign advertising the sale, rental, or lease of
the premises.
SIGN, ROOF: A sign which is affixed to a roof, extended roof, pitched roof or
canopy and which extends above the mean height of the roof.
SIGN, WALL: A sign affixed to a building wall which does not project
horizontally more than twelve inches (12") from the wall nor extend above the
height of the wall.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION: A use or a design element of a use which is not permitted by
right in a particular district because of potential adverse effects, but which,
if controlled in the particular instance as to its relationship to the
neighborhood and to the general welfare, may be permitted by the board of
adjustment, where specifically authorized by this title, and in accordance with
the substantive and procedural standards of this title.
STREET WALL: The wall or part of the building nearest to the street line.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground,
or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground, and includes
buildings, walls, fences, and signs.
SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT: A zoning district to be mapped as an overlay to a use
district and which modifies or supplements the regulations of the general
district in recognition of distinguishing circumstances such as unit
development or flooding propensity while maintaining the character and purposes
of the general use district area over which it is superimposed.
TINY HOME: A dwelling that is less than nine hundred (900) square feet.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that is made from or derived from tobacco, or that
contains nicotine, that is intended for human consumption or is likely to be
consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or
ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a
cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. “Tobacco product” also
means electronic smoking devices and any component or accessory used in the
consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers, pipes, and
liquids used in electronic smoking devices, whether or not they contain
nicotine. Tobacco product does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
TOP PLATE: The horizontal timber directly carrying the trusses of a roof or the
rafters.
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT: A row of at least three (3) attached dwelling units each
separated by a party wall on individual lots and designated for separate
ownership of the individual dwelling units with no separate dwelling unit
constructed above another dwelling unit.
TRAILER PARK: See definition of Trailer Or Mobile Home Park in section
9-9-1 of this code.
TRAVEL OR RECREATION VEHICLE: A vehicular portable structure or a self-
propelled structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel use or
recreational use not to exceed thirty five feet (35') in length.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of a restriction of this title, granted by the board of
adjustment, where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape,
topography, or other extraordinary or exceptional situation, condition or
circumstance of a particular property, the literal enforcement of this title
restriction, would result in unnecessary hardship.
VETERINARIAN CLINIC: A building used exclusively for the care and treatment of
animals, including incidental overnight boarding of animals within the enclosed
building, but excluding outside animal runs or boarding services.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS, WIND TURBINE, WIND GENERATOR, WINDMILL,
AND WIND MACHINE): A machine that converts the kinetic energy in the wind into
a usable form of electrical or mechanical energy. The WECS includes all parts
of a system except the tower and the transmission equipment.
YARD: An open unoccupied space on a lot between a building and a lot line.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full length of the front lot lines
between the side lot lines.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line between
the side lot lines.
YARD REQUIRED: The minimum permitted distance of open unoccupied space between
a building and a lot line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front yard and
the rear yard.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 345, 10-10-2023)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Duty Of Building Inspector And Other Officials
10-2-2: Zoning Clearance Permit; Fees
10-2-3: Construction And Use; Applications, Plans, Permits
10-2-4: Penalties
10-2-1: DUTY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR AND OTHER OFFICIALS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce this title.
If the building inspector shall find that any of the provisions of this title
are being violated, he shall notify in writing the persons responsible for such
violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it, and shall take such other action to ensure compliance
with or to prevent violation of its provisions as is authorized by law.
   B.   All departments, officials, and employees of the city vested with the
duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall comply with the provisions
of this title and shall issue no permit or license for any use, purpose,
excavation, construction, structure, building, or sign in conflict with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
10-2-2: ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, move,
add to, or structurally alter any building or structure, or to use or change
the use of any building or land or to permit the aforementioned actions, until
a zoning clearance permit has been issued by the building inspector.
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for a zoning clearance permit
shall be accompanied by a legal description of the lot, and plans in duplicate,
drawn to scale, in black line or blueprint, showing the actual shape and
dimension of the lot; the location, size and height of any existing building or
structure and the location, size, and height of any buildings or structures to
be erected or altered; the existing and intended use of each building or
structure and portion of the lot; the number of dwellings the building is
intended to accommodate, if any; and such other information with regard to the
lot and neighboring lots as may be necessary to determine and provide for the
enforcement of this title.
   C.   Building Inspector Action: The building inspector shall act upon each
application for a zoning clearance permit within three (3) days after it is
filed in compliance with the provisions herein. He shall return one copy of the
plans and issue a zoning clearance permit or notify the applicant, in writing,
of his refusal to issue a permit setting forth the reasons therefor.
   D.   Fees: No zoning clearance permit shall be issued until a fee of five
dollars ($5.00) shall have been paid; provided, that upon the payment of twenty
dollars ($20.00) a group zoning clearance permit may be issued covering five
(5) or more residential lots in the same subdivision. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-2-3: CONSTRUCTION AND USE; APPLICATIONS, PLANS, PERMITS:
Zoning permits, variances, or special exception uses issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the uses, arrangement and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this title, and
punishable as provided by section
10-2-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-2-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this title
or failing to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or
special exceptions, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day's violation thereof shall constitute a
separate offense.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or its authorized
officials from taking other action, authorized by law, to remedy violations.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Establishment Of Board
10-3-2: Powers Of Board
10-3-3: Proceedings Of Board
10-3-4: Notice Of Public Hearing
10-3-5: Fees
10-3-6: Appeals From Building Inspector
10-3-7: Interpretation
10-3-8: Variances
10-3-9: Special Exceptions
10-3-10: Appeals To District Court
10-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD:
   A.   Membership; Compensation:
      1.   There is hereby established a board of adjustment of the city with
the powers and duties hereinafter set forth.
      2.   The board of adjustment shall consist of five (5) members who shall
be the same as the board of commissioners.
      3.   Each member shall serve without pay for a term of two (2) years
which shall be the same as their term of office as a member of the board of
commissioners. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as a vacancy on the
board of commissioners.
      4.   Attendance requirements at all meetings of the board of adjustment
shall be the same as that of a city commissioner as all actions of the board of
adjustment shall be listed as a regular or special meeting of the board of
commissioners. (Ord. 287, 4-11-2011)
   B.   Officers; Rules: The board shall organize, elect its chairman, vice
chairman, and secretary, and adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its
affairs. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-3-2: POWERS OF BOARD:
The board shall have the power to hear appeals from the determinations of the
building inspector in enforcing this title, to grant special exceptions, to
grant variances, and to make interpretations of the zoning map and text, in
accordance with the substantive and procedural standards hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-3-3: PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD:
Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman or at such other times as
the board may determine or, if not urgent, the item may be listed on the next
city commission agenda as an action item as follows: The city commission,
acting as the board of adjustment, will discuss and take action as deemed
appropriate with regard to...(item to be considered). In all matters, the board
shall decide within ninety (90) days after the filing of an application for
relief. All matters before the board shall be decided by a majority vote of a
quorum of the members. (Ord. 287, 4-11-2011)
10-3-4: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING:
The board of adjustment shall give notice and conduct a public hearing before
acting on any appeal from a determination of the building inspector, or before
granting any special exception, or variance, or minor variance, or exception.
The board shall set forth in an adopted statement of policy a list of variances
and exceptions which constitute minor variances or exceptions and such
statement of policy shall be approved by the board of commissioners.
   A.   Giving Notice: Ten (10) days' notice of public hearing shall be given
as follows:
      1.   For special exception, variance or appeal from a determination of
the building inspector:
         a.   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation; and
         b.   By mailing written notice to all owners of property within a
three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior boundary of the subject
property.
      2.   For minor variance or exception requests, by mailing written notice
to all owners of land abutting the subject property. Nothing herein shall
preclude the board of adjustment from requiring the giving of public notice of
hearings to all owners of property within a three hundred foot (300') radius of
the exterior boundary of the subject property for consideration of a minor
variance or exception.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall contain:
      1.   The legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location of the property;
      2.   The present zoning classification of the property and the nature of
the appeal, variance or exception requested; and
      3.   The date, time and place of the hearing.
   C.   Notice To Property Owners: The applicant shall furnish the names and
addresses of all owners of property within a three hundred foot (300') radius
of the exterior boundary of the subject property, or in the case of a minor
variance or exception, the owners of abutting property of the subject property.
Costs of publication shall be billed to the applicant. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-3-5: FEES:
   A.   Fees Enumerated:
 
Appeal from building inspector                $ 75.00
Minor variances and exceptions (mobile homes) 60.00
Other variances of bulk and/or area           60.00
Special exception                             75.00
Use variances                                 100.00
 
   B.   Exclusion: The above fees do not include the cost of publication of
notice and postage on notice mailed which shall be billed to the applicant.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-3-6: APPEALS FROM BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   General: An appeal to the board of adjustment may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by an officer, department, board or bureau of the city
affected, where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the building inspector in the enforcement of this
title.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: An appeal shall be taken within ten (10) days from
the determination complained of by filing with the building inspector and with
the secretary of the board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.
The building inspector, upon receipt of notice, shall transmit to the secretary
of the board certified copies of all the papers constituting the record of said
matter. Upon receipt of the record, the secretary shall cause an investigation
to be made upon the appeal and shall set the matter for public hearing.
   C.   Board Of Adjustment Action: The board shall hold the public hearing.
The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end
shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The
board shall make its decision within forty (40) days after the final hearing,
and the decision shall be in writing and filed of record in the office of the
city clerk. The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
building inspector. A decision of the board shall not become final until the
expiration of fifteen (15) days from the date such decision is made, unless the
board shall find the immediate taking of said decision is necessary for the
preservation of property or personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
   D.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the building inspector from whom the appeal is
taken certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall
have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a
stay would in his opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order granted
by the board or by the court of proper jurisdiction on due and sufficient cause
shown. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-3-7: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   The board shall interpret the text of this title or the official zoning
map upon an appeal from a determination of the building inspector after
compliance with the procedural standards of section
10-3-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Where a question arises as to the zoning district classification of a
particular use, the board of adjustment, upon written request of the building
inspector, may find and determine the classification of the use in question and
may, prior to such determination, order the giving of notice and hold a public
hearing. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-3-8: VARIANCES:
   A.   Board Of Adjustment Action:
      1.   The board of adjustment, upon application, and after notice (when
notice is required) and public hearing, may grant variances from the terms of
this title, only upon a finding that:
         a.   The application of this title to the particular piece of property
would create an unnecessary hardship;
         b.   Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved; and
         c.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good, or impair the purposes and intent of this title or the
comprehensive plan.
      2.   Provided that the board in granting a variance shall prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards, and may require such evidence and
guarantee or bond as it may deem necessary to enforce compliance with the
conditions attached.
   B.   Application: A request for a variance shall be initiated by the filing
of an application with the city clerk and shall be set for public hearing by
the secretary in accordance with the rules established by the board.
   C.   Time Limitation On Variances: A variance which has not been utilized
within one year from the date of the order granting the variance shall
thereafter be void. For the purpose of this provision, "utilization" shall mean
actual use or the issuance of a building permit, when applicable, provided
construction is diligently carried to completion. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-3-9: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   General: The board of adjustment, upon application, and after notice
(when notice is required) and public hearing, subject to the procedural and
substantive standards hereinafter set forth, may grant the following special
exceptions:
      1.   Special exception uses as designated and regulated within the
permitted use provisions of the zoning districts.
      2.   The change of a nonconforming use, as provided in subsection
10-13-3F of this title.
      3.   The restoration of a partially destroyed structure containing a
nonconforming use, as provided in subsection
10-13-3G of this title.
      4.   The restoration of a partially destroyed nonconforming structure, as
provided in section
10-13-6 of this title.
      5.   The modification of a screening requirement, as provided in section
10-4-12 of this title.
      6.   Off street parking use of property located within a residential
district, when the property is abutting an office, commercial or industrial
district.
   B.   Application: A request for a special exception shall be initiated by
the filing of an application with the city clerk and shall be set for public
hearing by the secretary in accordance with the rules established by the board.
   C.   Board Of Adjustment Action: The board of adjustment shall hold the
public hearing and, upon the concurring vote of three (3) members, may grant
the special exception after finding that the special exception will be in
harmony with the spirit and intent of this title, and will not be injurious to
the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. Provided that
the board in granting a special exception shall prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards, and may require such evidence and guarantee or bonds
as it may deem necessary to enforce compliance with the conditions attached.
   D.   Time Limitation On Special Exceptions: A special exception which has
not been utilized within one year from the date of the order granting same
shall thereafter be void. For the purpose of this provision, "utilization"
shall mean actual use or the issuance of a building permit, when applicable,
provided construction is diligently carried to completion. (Ord. 165, 12-6-
1983)
10-3-10: APPEALS TO DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Procedure: An appeal from any action, ruling decision, judgment, or
order of the board of adjustment may be taken by any person or persons
aggrieved, or any taxpayer or officer, department, board, or bureau of the city
to the district court, by filing with the city clerk and with the secretary of
the board within ten (10) days from the date of such action, a notice of
appeal, which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. No bond or
deposit for costs shall be required for such appeal. Upon filing of the notice
of appeal, the city clerk shall transmit to the court clerk of the county the
original or certified copies of all the papers constituting the record in the
case, together with the order, decision, or ruling of the board. Said case
shall be heard and tried de novo in the district court of Creek County,
Oklahoma. An appeal shall lie from the action of the district court as in all
other civil actions. All issues in any proceedings under this section shall
have preference over all other civil actions and proceedings. Costs shall not
be allowed against the board unless it shall appear to the court that it acted
with gross negligence, or in bad faith, or with malice, in making the decision
being appealed.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the district court stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed unless the chairman of the
board certifies to the court clerk, after notice shall have been filed, that by
reasons of fact stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to
life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order granted by the district court. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zoning Districts Established
10-4-2: Official Zoning Map Established
10-4-3: District Boundary Description And Interpretation
10-4-4: Limitation On Land Use
10-4-5: Division Of Lots
10-4-6: Street Frontage Required
10-4-7: One Dwelling Per Lot Of Record
10-4-8: Height Exceptions
10-4-9: Lot Area And Width Exceptions
10-4-10: Yards
10-4-11: Existing Building Encroachments
10-4-12: Screening Wall Or Fence
10-4-13: Platting Requirement
10-4-14: Major Street Plan
10-4-15: Code Of Ethics
10-4-16: Restriction On Tobacco/E-Cigarette Retailers
10-4-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Districts Established: The zoning districts set forth below are hereby
established. The district symbol is in the column to the left.
AG   Agricultural district.
RE   Residential estate district; maximum density 0.5 dwelling per acre.
     Minimum platted area of two (2) acres.
RS-1 Residential single-family low density district; one dwelling per lot,
     minimum ten thousand (10,000) square feet lot size.
RS-2 Residential single-family medium density district; one dwelling per lot,
     minimum seven thousand (7,000) square feet lot size.
RS-3 Residential single-family high density district; one dwelling per lot,
     minimum five thousand (5,000) square feet lot size.
RD   Residential duplex district; minimum lot size six thousand (6,000) square
     feet.
RM-1 Residential multi-family low density district. Minimum lot size three
     thousand (3,000) square feet per residential unit.
RM-2 Residential multi-family medium density district. Minimum lot size one
     thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet per residential unit.
RM-3 Residential multi-family high density district. Minimum lot size seven
     hundred fifty (750) square feet per residential unit.
RMH  Residential mobile home district, a designated mobile home park.
RM-T Residential townhouse.
OL   Office low density district.
OM   Office medium density district.
CS   Commercial and shopping center district.
CG   Commercial general district.
CH   Commercial high intensity district.
IL   Industrial light manufacturing and research and development district.
IM   Industrial moderate district.
IH   Industrial heavy district.
PUD  Planned unit development.
 
(Ord. 257, 12-8-2008)
10-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP ESTABLISHED:
The locations and boundaries of the various districts as defined herein shall
be established by ordinance and shall be shown and delineated on the official
zoning map of the city. The official zoning map shall be maintained by the city
planner and may be divided into parts, and such parts may be separately
employed for identification purposes when adopting or amending the official
zoning map or for any reference to the official zoning map. (Ord. 165, 12-6-
1983)
10-4-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION AND INTERPRETATION:
District boundary lines shall be described by legal description or by a map.
When a legal description is used, the boundary line shall be deemed to extend
to the centerline of abutting streets and shall be so designated on the
official zoning map. When a map is used, district boundary lines shall be
established by dimensions, property lines, recorded lot lines, or the
centerline of abutting street, alley, or railroad right of way, as the same
were of record at the time of adoption. In all cases where there is doubt as to
the exact location of district boundary lines, the same shall be determined by
the board of adjustment. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-4: LIMITATION ON LAND USE:
No land or building shall be used and no building, structure, or improvement
shall be made, erected, constructed, moved, altered, enlarged, or rebuilt which
is designed, arranged, or intended to be used or maintained for any purpose or
in any manner except in accordance with the use, height, area, yard, space, and
other requirements established in the district in which such land, building,
structure, or improvement is located, except as provided by chapter 13 of this
title. In order to avoid undue hardship:
   A.   Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of any building, where a building permit was
lawfully issued prior to the effective date of this title, and pursuant to such
permit, construction is diligently carried to completion. Upon completion, such
building or use shall be deemed nonconforming and may continue as regulated by
chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
   B.   At any time within two (2) years after the effective date of this
title, a building permit and zoning clearance permit may be issued or a use of
land commenced in accordance with the terms and conditions of a variance
granted by the board of adjustment prior to the effective date of this title.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
10-4-5: DIVISION OF LOTS:
A lot shall not hereafter be divided into two (2) or more lots, unless all lots
resulting from such division conform to all the applicable regulations of the
zoning district in which located and comply with the Drumright subdivision
regulations. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-6: STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED:
No lot shall contain any building used in whole or in part for residential
purposes unless such lot has a minimum of twenty five feet (25') of frontage on
a public street or dedicated right of way, except a substandard lot of record,
a lot within an approved planned unit development, or a lot within an approved
townhouse development. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-7: ONE DWELLING PER LOT OF RECORD:
Not more than one residential structure may be located on a lot in an RE, RS or
RD district, except in the case of a lot which is within an approved planned
unit development. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-8: HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS:
The following structures shall not be subject to the height limitations of the
district in which they are located:
   A.   Farm buildings and structures.
   B.   Belfries, chimneys, cupolas, domes, elevators, penthouses, flagpoles,
monitors, smokestacks, spires, cooling towers and ventilators, provided they
are not intended for human occupancy.
   C.   Ground and structure supported accessory antennas and aerials,
including elevating structures (poles and towers), which do not exceed a total
aggregate height of sixty feet (60') above the natural land grade and which
meet the following requirements:
      1.   No portion of the antenna, aerial, elevating structure or any anchor
or guy line may encroach upon the land area or airspace of any adjoining or
abutting property.
      2.   In a residential district no portion of the antenna, aerial,
elevating structure, or any anchor or guy line, may extend beyond the front
yard building setback line or extend into any established front yard or into
any side yard; provided that:
         a.   Height and location restrictions shall not be applicable to radio
communication facilities owned, operated and maintained by any city, county,
state or federal governmental entities;
         b.   Nonguyed, omni-directional, single element vertical antennas not
exceeding one hundred twelve inches (112") in height, and not exceeding one and
three-fourths inches (13/4") outside diameter shall be permitted in addition to
the sixty foot (60') aggregate height limitation;
         c.   The restrictions established by this section may be modified by
board of adjustment special exception approval, subject to the minimum
requirements for special exception approvals and such additional safeguards and
conditions as may be imposed by the board of adjustment. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-9: LOT AREA AND WIDTH EXCEPTIONS:
Except for fire protection and ambulance service, the lot area and width
requirement of the zoning districts shall not apply to the uses included within
use unit 4, section
10-11-4 of this title. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-10: YARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Yard Requirements: Except as otherwise provided,
required yards shall be open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky. Yards
provided for a building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this title shall not be considered the yard for any other building, and yards
provided for a lot shall not be considered the yard of any other lot.
   B.   Permitted Yard Obstructions: Obstructions are permitted in required
yards as follows:
      1.   Cornices, canopies, eaves and similar architectural features may
project not more than two feet (2') into a required yard.
      2.   Fire escapes may project not more than four and one-half feet (41/
2') into a required yard.
      3.   Fences, hedges, plant materials and walls may be located in any
yard; provided, that on any corner lot on which a front and side yard is
required, no wall, fence, sign, structure, or any plant growth which obstruct
sight lines at elevations between two feet (2') and six feet (6') above the
crown of the adjacent roadway shall be placed or maintained within a triangle
formed by measuring from the point of intersection of the front and exterior
side lot lines a distance of twenty five feet (25') along said front and side
lot lines and connecting the points so established to form a "sight triangle"
on the area of the lot adjacent to the street intersection.
      4.   Signs which are permitted as accessory uses in residential districts
may be located within any yard which is bounded by a public street.
      5.   In the RE and RS residential districts, a detached accessory
building or buildings may be located in a required rear yard, provided:
         a.   The building or buildings do not cover more than twenty percent
(20%) of the area of the minimum required rear yard; and
         b.   The total gross floor area for any accessory building or
buildings located in the rear yard, required rear yard, and/or both, does not
exceed five hundred (500) square feet.
      6.   Swimming pools, tennis court, patios, fallout and other protective
shelters shall be located in the rear yard and shall have a minimum setback of
ten feet (10') from any side yard or rear yard lot lines.
      7.   Mobile home hitches.
      8.   Carports by special exception requiring board of adjustment
approval.
      9.   Customary accessory structures, such as clotheslines, barbecue pits,
and playground equipment.
   C.   Use Of Yards In R Districts: No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle
shall be parked or stored within the front or exterior side yard in an R
district. No vehicle shall be parked except on a hard surfaced area constructed
of a dust free all weather material. Within the RM-1 and RM-2 districts, not
more than one vehicle shall be parked for each six hundred (600) square feet of
area contained in a required front or exterior side yard. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-11: EXISTING BUILDING ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard And Building Setback Requirements: Where an existing
building or buildings on the same side of the street and within the same block
encroach on the required front yard or building setback, the required front
yard or building setback for new construction shall be established as follows:
      1.   If the proposed building is to be located more than two hundred feet
(200') from an encroaching building, the proposed building shall conform to the
front yard or setback established for the district in which the proposed
building is to be located.
      2.   If the proposed building is to be located between adjacent buildings
which conform to the required front yard or building setback, or between a
conforming building and an intersecting street, the proposed building shall
conform to the front yard or setback established for the district in which the
proposed building is to be located.
      3.   If the proposed building is to be located within two hundred feet
(200') of encroaching buildings on both sides and there are no intervening
buildings, the front yard or building setback shall be the average of the front
yard setback of the two (2) nearest front corners of the encroaching buildings.
      4.   If the proposed building is to be located within two hundred feet
(200') of an encroaching building on one side, but not both sides, and there
are no intervening buildings, the front yard or building setback shall be the
average of the otherwise required front yard or setback and the setback of the
nearest front corner of the encroaching building.
   B.   Reduction In Front Yard Or Building Setback: Provided, however, that in
the application of subsection A3 or A4 of this section, the front yard or
building setback shall not be reduced to less than five feet (5') plus one-half
(1/2) of the right of way width designated on the major street plan for the
abutting street, or five feet (5') plus one-half (1/2) of the dedicated street
right of way, whichever is greater, or five feet (5') plus twenty five feet
(25') if the street is not designated on the major street plan. (Ord. 165, 12-
6-1983)
10-4-12: SCREENING WALL OR FENCE:
   A.   Specifications:
      1.   For the purpose of maintaining a compatible relationship between
certain land uses, a screening requirement is hereby established for the
initiation and continuance of particular uses in such instances as may be
hereinafter designated.
      2.   When the provisions of this title require the construction of a
screening wall or fence as a condition for the initiation and subsequent
continuance of a use, the screening wall or fence:
         a.   Shall be constructed, designed, and arranged to provide visual
separation of uses, irrespective of vegetation;
         b.   Shall not be less than six feet (6') in height;
         c.   Shall be constructed with all braces and supports on the
interior, except when both sides are of the same design and appearance;
         d.   Shall be erected prior to the occupancy of the building or
initiation of the use required to screen; and
         e.   Shall be of the type of materials compatible with the surrounding
area.
   B.   Maintenance: The screening wall or fence shall be maintained by the
owner of the lot containing the use required to construct the screening.
Failure to maintain after notice by the building inspector shall constitute an
offense hereunder.
   C.   Modification Of Screening Wall Or Fence Requirements: The board of
adjustment, as a variance, may:
      1.   Modify or remove the screening requirement where existing physical
features provide visual separation of uses;
      2.   Modify the screening requirement where an alternative screening will
provide visual separation of uses;
      3.   Grant an extension of time to erect a screen where properties which
are to be benefited by the screen are undeveloped; and
      4.   Remove the screening requirement where the purpose of the screening
requirement cannot be achieved. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-13: PLATTING REQUIREMENT:
For the purposes of providing a proper arrangement of streets and assuring the
adequacy of open spaces for traffic, utilities, and access of emergency
vehicles, commensurate with the intensification of land use customarily
incident to a change of zoning, a platting requirement is established as
follows:
For any land which has been rezoned upon application of a private party, no
building permit shall be issued until that portion of the tract on which the
permit is sought has been included within a subdivision plat or replat, as the
case may be, submitted to the planning commission for their review and
recommendation, approved by the city commission and filed in the office of the
county clerk where the property is situated. Provided that the city commission,
pursuant to their exclusive jurisdiction over subdivision plats, may remove the
platting requirement upon a determination that the above stated purposes have
been achieved by previous platting or could not be achieved by a plat or
replat. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
10-4-14: MAJOR STREET PLAN:
The city of Drumright street and highway plan, hereafter referred to as the
major street plan, is adopted by the board of commissioners of the city. (Ord.
165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-15: CODE OF ETHICS:
The mayor or any member of the board of commissioners, planning commission, or
board of adjustment to whom some private benefit, direct or indirect, financial
or otherwise, may come as a result of a public action concerning this title,
shall not be a participant in that action. The possibility, not the actuality,
of a conflict shall govern. The individual experiencing a conflict of interest
shall declare his interest, abstain from voting on the matter, and refrain from
any deliberations on the matter. The individual shall not discuss the matter
with a fellow official for the purpose of influencing a decision thereon.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-4-16: RESTRICTION ON TOBACCO/E-CIGARETTE RETAILERS:
   A.   No business license by City of Drumright, Oklahoma shall be located or
operated at any place except at locations permitted by the town’s zoning or
planning laws. The location of a tobacco/e-cigarette store is specifically
prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of any playground, school, or other
facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one
(21) years of age. The distance shall be measured as the shortest straight-line
distance from the property line of the proposed tobacco/e-cigarette store to
the property line of the entities listed below:
      1.   Public or private School.
      2.   Playgrounds.
      3.   Facility used primarily by persons under twenty-one years of age.
   B.   Grandfather Clause. Current license tobacco/e-cigarette stores within
300 feet of any school are exempt from the amendment to the zoning ordinance.
If current license tobacco/e-cigarette store is sold, then the new owner would
no longer be able to use the grandfathering clause to obtain a license.
(Ord. 345, 10-10-2023)
CHAPTER 5
AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purposes
10-5-2: Principal Uses Permitted
10-5-3: Accessory Uses
10-5-4: Bulk And Area Requirements
10-5-5: Special Exception Uses
10-5-1: PURPOSES:
The agriculture district is designed to:
   A.   Protect agricultural land.
   B.   Discourage wasteful scattering of development in rural areas.
   C.   Obtain economy of public fund expenditures for improvements and
services. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-5-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
The principal uses permitted in the agriculture districts are designated by use
units. The use units are groupings of individual uses and are fully described,
including their respective off street parking, loading, screening requirements
and other use conditions in chapter 11 of this title. The use units permitted
in the agriculture district are set forth in table 1 of this section.
   Table 1
   USE UNITS PERMITTED
No. Use Unit Use Condition1
No. Use Unit                                                 Use Condition1
1.  Areawide uses by right                                   X
2.  Areawide special exception uses                          E
3.  Agriculture                                              X
4.  Public protection and utility and open air facilities    X
    (temporary)
5.  Community services, cultural and recreational facilities E
6.  Single-family dwelling                                   X
9.  Mobile home dwelling                                     X
20. Commercial recreation; intensive                         E
21. Business signs and outdoor advertising                   X
23. Mining and mineral processing                            E
Note:
1. X – use by right; E – special exception.
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-5-3: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory uses customarily incident to a
principal use permitted in an agriculture district are permitted in such
district. In addition, the uses set forth in table 2 of this section are
permitted as accessory uses.
   Table 2
   ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED
   Uses
   Signs:
    Bulletin boards
    Identification
    Real estate
   Wind energy conversion systems
   Home occupation1
   Note:
      1.   See conditions set forth in subsection
10-6-3B2 of this title which are also applicable in an AG district.
   B.   Accessory Use Conditions:
      1.   General Conditions:
         a.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the
principal building shall be made structurally a part thereof, shall have a
common wall therewith, and shall comply with the requirements applicable to the
principal building.
         b.   Accessory buildings shall meet the minimum yard or building
setback requirements.
      2.   Accessory Signs:
         a.   One bulletin board may be erected on each street frontage of an
educational, religious, institutional, or similar use requiring announcement of
its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in
surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in height, and illumination, if any, shall
be by constant light.
         b.   One identification sign may be erected on each street frontage of
a permitted nonresidential use. The sign shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet in surface area, nor fifteen feet (15') in height, and
illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
         c.   A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises may be erected on each street frontage of the premises. The sign shall
not exceed eighty (80) square feet in surface area, nor fifteen feet (15') in
height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
      3.   Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS):
         a.   All WECS tower structures shall comply with the design and
construction techniques in the building code. Compliance shall be certified in
writing by the manufacturer's engineering staff or by a registered structural
engineer.
         b.   Towers shall have either tower climbing apparatus located not
closer than twelve feet (12') from the ground or shall have a locked anticlimb
device installed on the tower.
         c.   Safety wires shall be installed on the turnbuckles of the guy
wires for all guyed WECS towers.
         d.   A WECS shall be equipped with both manual and automatic controls
to limit the rotational speed of the blade below the design limits of the
rotor. The conformance of rotor and overspeed control design with good
engineering practices shall be certified by the manufacturer's engineering
staff or by a registered mechanical engineer. The compatibility of the tower
and the rotor shall also be certified by the manufacturer or by a registered
mechanical engineer. If the WECS is within three hundred feet (300') of a
structure or tree, the lowest moving part of the WECS shall be a minimum of
thirty feet (30') above the highest structure or potential tree height,
whichever is higher.
         e.   No part of a WECS shall be located within or over drainage,
utility, or other established easements. No part of a WECS shall be located
within or over any required minimum front, side, or rear yard setbacks. (Ord.
165, 12-6-1983)
10-5-4: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   Table 3
   BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
                                                                          AG
Lot width (minimum feet)                                                   200
Lot area (minimum acres)                                                   2
Land area (minimum acres per dwelling unit)                                2.2
Front yard and any yard abutting a public street measured from centerline
of abutting street, add 1/2 of right of way designated on the major street  
plan, or 25 feet if not designated on the major street plan (minimum feet)
Arterial                                                                   40
Not an arterial                                                            35
Side yard (minimum feet)                                                    
One side yard                                                              15
Other side yard                                                            15
Rear yard (minimum feet)                                                   40
Building height (maximum feet)                                             26
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-5-5: SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES:
The special exception uses permitted in the agriculture district, as designated
in table 1, section
10-5-2 of this chapter, are subject to the requirements set out below, and such
additional safeguards and conditions as may be imposed by the board of
adjustment:
   A.   The accessory use provisions of the agriculture district pertaining to
signs are applicable to accessory signs for uses permitted by special
exception.
   B.   Special exception uses, except as provided in subsection A of this
section, shall conform to the bulk and area requirements of the use district in
which located, unless the use unit requirements are more restrictive, in which
case the more restrictive shall control. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purposes
10-6-2: Principal Uses Permitted
10-6-3: Accessory Uses
10-6-4: Bulk And Area Requirements
10-6-5: Special Exception Uses
10-6-6: Site Plan Review; Mobile Home Parks And Multi-Family Complexes
10-6-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   General Purposes: The residential districts are designed to:
      1.   Achieve the residential objectives of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Protect the character of residential areas by excluding inharmonious
commercial and industrial activities.
      3.   Achieve a suitable environment for families by permitting in
residential areas appropriate neighborhood facilities, such as churches,
schools, and certain cultural and recreational facilities.
      4.   Preserve openness of the living areas and avoid overcrowding by
requiring minimum yards, open spaces, lot areas, and by limiting the bulk of
structures.
      5.   Permit a variety of dwelling types and densities to meet the varying
needs of families.
      6.   Control the density of residential development to facilitate the
planning for an economical provision of streets, utilities, and other public
facilities.
   B.   RE Residential Estate District: The RE district is designed to permit
the development and conservation of single-family detached dwellings in a
suitable environment for family life on large parcels of land at a low
population density. It is the intent of this district to prohibit any other use
which would substantially interfere with the stated purposes of this district,
and discourage any use that generates traffic and creates congestion on
neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic serving the residents on
those streets. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
   C.   RS Residential Single-Family Districts: The RS-1, RS-2, and RS-
3 districts are designed to permit the development and conservation of detached
dwellings on individual lots in suitable environments in a variety of densities
to meet the varying requirements of families. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. Ord.
257, 12-8-2008)
   D.   RD Residential Duplex District: The RD district is designed to permit a
more intense yet compatible use of tracts in or near single-family residential
and other neighborhoods which because of size, topography, or adjacent land use
are not ideally suited for single-family use.
   E.   RM Residential Multi-Family Districts:
      1.   The RM-1 and RM-2 districts are designed to permit the development
and conservation of multi-family dwelling types, such as garden apartments and
townhouses, in suitable environments in a variety of densities to meet the
varying requirements of families.
      2.   The RM-T district is designed to permit the development of attached
single-family townhouse dwellings, on separate lots, which are designed
expressly for separate ownership, in suitable residential environments at a
higher density than conventional detached single-family dwellings.
   F.   RMH Residential Mobile Home Park District: The RMH district is designed
for the development of managed mobile home parks providing internal mobile home
spaces on a rental basis and situated upon a contiguous tract of land under one
ownership, properly designed to ensure a suitable living environment. (Ord.
165, 12-6-1983)
10-6-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
The principal uses permitted in the residential districts are designated by use
unit. The use units are groupings of individual uses and are fully described,
including their respective off street parking, loading and screening
requirements and other use conditions in chapter 11 of this title. The use
units permitted in residential districts are set forth in table 1 of this
section.
   TABLE 1
   USE UNITS PERMITTED
             Use Condition1
No. Use Unit RE RS RD RM RMH RM-T
                                                        Use Condition1
No. Use Unit                                            RE RS RD RM RMH RM-T
1   Areawide uses by right                              X  X  X  X  X   X
2   Areawide special exception uses                     E  E  E  E  E   E
4   Public protection, utility and open air facilities  E  E  E  E  E   E
    (temporary)
5   Community services, cultural and recreational       E  E  E  E  E   E
    facilities
6   Single-family dwelling                              X  X  X  X     E
7   Duplex dwelling                                         X  X     X2
8   Multi-family dwelling and similar uses                    X      
9   Mobile home dwelling                                  E3     X    
10  Tiny home                                             E4     E4   
11  Short-term rental                                     E5     E5   
 
Notes:
   1.   X = use by right; E = special exception required.
   2.   Multi-family dwellings, other than townhouses, are not permitted in the
RM-T district.
   3.   Special exception required in RS-3 districts. Not permitted in RE, RS-
1 and RS-2 districts.
   4.   Allowable use in RHM and RS-3 districts with an exception granted by
the City Commission.
   5.   Allowable use in AG, RMH, and RS-3 districts with an exception granted
by the City Commission.
(Ord. 257, 12-8-2008)
10-6-3: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory uses customarily incident to a
principal use permitted in a residential district are permitted in such
district. In addition, the following uses set forth in table 2 of this section
are permitted as accessory uses:
            TABLE 2
            ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED
Uses Districts
Uses                                                   Districts
Home occupations                                       All R districts
Roomers and boarders:                                   
   2 persons                                        All R districts
More than 2 persons                                    All R districts1
Shelters                                               All R districts
Signs:                                                 All R districts
   Bulletin board
Construction                                            
Identification
Real estate
Swimming pool                                          All R districts
Management office and private recreation, laundry, and RM-1, RM-2, RMH, RM-T
storage facilities
Wind energy conversion systems                         RE, RS-11
 
   Note:
      1.   By special exception requiring board of adjustment approval.
   B.   Accessory Use Conditions:
      1.   General Conditions:
         a.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the
principal building shall be made structurally a part thereof, shall have a
common wall therewith, and shall comply with the requirements applicable to the
principal building.
         b.   A detached accessory building shall not be located in the front
or side yard or encroach upon a minimum building setback line, but this
limitation shall not apply to carports, provided the minimum required front
yard or side yard or setback line is observed.
         c.   Within the rear yard, a detached accessory building shall be
located at least five feet (5') from any interior lot line.
         d.   One unoccupied recreational vehicle, a length of thirty five feet
(35') or less, may be parked upon a lot as an accessory use.
      2.   Home Occupations: An occupation, profession, or trade customarily
carried on by occupants of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly
incidental to the principal use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes
is allowed as an accessory use in residential districts, subject to the
following provisions:
         a.   Location: Home occupation shall be conducted only within the
principal structure.
         b.   Area: The maximum floor area utilized for home occupation
purposes shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the total floor area of
the principal structure.
         c.   Employees: The home occupation shall be engaged in only by the
family or person occupying the dwelling as a private residence. No person shall
be employed in the home occupation other than a member of the immediate family
residing on the premises.
         d.   Merchandise: The home occupation shall not involve the retail
sale of merchandise manufactured off the premises.
         e.   Visibility Of Merchandise: No merchandise shall be displayed in
such a manner as to be visible from off the premises.
         f.   Outdoor Storage: No outdoor storage shall be allowed in
connection with any home occupation.
         g.   Maintenance Of Residential Character: No alteration of the
residential character of the premises may be made, including the removal of
garage doors.
         h.   Signs: No signs, display or advertising on premises, visible from
outside the lot, shall be permitted.
         i.   Disturbances: No mechanical or electrical equipment or other
activities shall be allowed which create a noise, dust, odor, or electrical
disturbance.
         j.   Traffic And Parking: No home occupation shall generate more than
fifteen (15) trips per day to and from the premises and all parking needs
generated shall be accommodated by off street parking which does not alter the
residential character of the premises.
      3.   Roomers And Boarders: In a dwelling unit occupied as a private
residence, one or more rooms may be rented or table board furnished, to not
more than:
         a.   Two (2) persons who are nonmembers of the family occupying said
premises as a permitted accessory use; or
         b.   More than two (2) persons by special exception requiring board of
adjustment approval. However, in either case, no window display or signboard
shall be used to advertise such use.
      4.   Signs:
         a.   One bulletin board may be erected on each street frontage of any
educational, religious, institutional, or similar use requiring announcement of
its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in
surface area, nor fifteen feet (15') in height, and illumination, if any, shall
be by constant light.
         b.   One identification sign may be erected on each perimeter street
frontage of a multi-family development, mobile home park, single-family
subdivision or permitted nonresidential use. The sign shall not exceed thirty
two (32) square feet in surface area, nor fifteen feet (15') in height, and
illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
         c.   During the period of construction, a temporary sign advertising
the construction of improvements on the premises may be erected on each
perimeter street frontage of the development. The sign shall not exceed four
hundred (400) square feet in surface area, nor fifteen feet (15') in height,
and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
         d.   A temporary real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or
lease of the premises may be erected on each street frontage of such lot. The
sign shall not exceed eight (8) square feet in surface area, nor fifteen feet
(15') in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light in an RM
or RD district. In an RS or RE district the sign shall not exceed four (4)
square feet in surface area, nor more than six feet (6') in height and shall
not be illuminated in any way. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-6-4: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements; Table 3: Bulk and area requirements in the RE, RS, RD,
and RM districts are shown in table 3 of this section. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
   TABLE 3
   BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
   RE RS-1 RS-2 RS-3 RD RM-T RM-1 RM-2
                              RE     RS-1   RS-2   RS-3  RD    RM-T  RM-1  RM-2
Lot width (minimum feet):                                            
 One-family                  1501   100    75     50    50    50    50    50
 Two-family                                         80    70    70    60
 Multi-family (other than                                     100   100
  RM-T)
Lot area (minimum square                                             
feet):
 One-family                  24,000 13,500 9,000  6,000 5,500 5,500 5,500 5,500
 Two-family                                         8,000 7,450 7,450 6,900
 Multi-family (other than                                     9,800 8,300
  RM-T)
Land area per dwelling unit                                          
(minimum square feet):
 One-family                  28,375 16,000 10,875 7,250 6,750 6,750 6,750 6,750
 Two-family                                         5,000 4,600 4,600 4,200
 Multi-family (other than                                           
  RM-T):
  For each of the first 2                                    4,600 4,200
    dwelling units on the lot
  For each additional                                              
    dwelling unit:
     Less than 2 bedrooms                                 3,100 2,400
     2 or more bedrooms                                   4,356 3,100
Townhouse development2:                                              
 Development width (minimum                              100   100   100
  feet)
 Lot width (minimum feet)                                20    20    20
 Lot area (minimum square                                1,600 1,600 1,600
  feet)
  Land area (of development)
 per dwelling unit (minimum                              4,500 4,500 3,100
  square feet)
Structure height (maximum     26     26     26     26    26    26    263   26
feet)
Livability space per dwelling 12,000 7,000  5,000  3,000 2,000 1,800 1,500 1,000
unit (minimum square feet)
 Front yard abutting a                                              
  public street:
    Measured from centerline
    of abutting street; add
    1/2 of right of way
  designated on the major                                          
    street plan or 25 feet if
    not designated on major
    street plan (minimum
    feet):
     Arterial            35     35     35     35    35    35    35    35
     Not an arterial     35     35     30     25    25    25    25    10
 All other yards abutting a                                         
  public street:
    Measured from centerline
    of abutting street; add
    1/2 of right of way
  designated on major                                              
    street plan or 25 feet if
    not designated on major
    street plan (minimum
    feet):
     Arterial            20     20     20     20    20    20    15    15
     Not an arterial     15     25     15     15    15    15    15    15
     Rear yards (minimum 25     25     25     20    20    20    20    10
    feet)
     Side yards (minimum                                        
    feet)4:
      One side yard      15     10     10     5     5     5     10    10
      Other side yard    15     5      5      5     5     5     5     10
 
Notes:
   1.   The frontage of any lot in the RE district which meets the requirements
of minimum lot size may be less than the minimum frontages as long as the front
building line on said lot is a minimum of 125 linear feet.
   2.   A minimum of 3 townhouse lots.
   3.   In the RM-1 district, a one-story limitation shall apply to structures
containing more than 3 dwelling units which are within 50 feet of an adjoining
RE or RS district.
   4.   Does not apply to interior lot line of townhouse developments.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. Ord. 257, 12-8-2008)
   B.   Mobile Home Parks In RMH District 1 :
      1.   General Requirements:
         a.   The tract shall comprise a single, contiguous parcel except where
the site is divided by public streets or alleys.
         b.   Minimum internal street surfacing width: twenty four feet (24')
(not dedicated).
         c.   All mobile home dwellings placed shall be completely skirted with
skirting foundation.
         d.   All mobile home dwellings placed shall be anchored by an
anchoring system. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
         e.   All mobile homes placed in the city of Drumright shall be
certified and display such certification on the exterior of the mobile home
that they have been constructed in accordance with the applicable national
mobile home or manufactured home construction and safety standards and that
they are not more than fifteen (15) model years old at the time of placement.
(Ord. 257, 12-8-2008)
         f.   One identification sign may be erected on each perimeter street
frontage. The sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in surface area
nor fifteen feet (15') in height; and illumination, if any, shall be by
constant light.
      2.   Tract Development Standards:
 
   a. Tract area (minimum)               5 acres
   b. Land area per dwelling unit (minimu5,400 sq. ft.
   c. Tract width (minimum)              300 ft.
 
   d. Setback abutting a public street measured from centerline; add to the
distance designated in the column to the right, one-half (1/2) of right of way
width designated on major street plan or twenty five feet (25'), if not
designed on major street plan (minimum).
 
 Abutting an arterial or freeway service road                          35 ft.
 Not abutting an arterial or freeway service road                      25 ft.
   e. Setback from perimeter boundary except where abutting a public 10 ft.
street
   f. Height (maximum)                                               1 story
 
   g. Common park/recreational open space and facilities (which may include
trails, playgrounds, community buildings and tot lots) shall be delineated and
provided in any development established under these regulations equal to at
least six percent (6%) of the total gross tract area, exclusive of open area on
each space.
   h. A six foot (6') screening fence shall be provided along the perimeter
boundaries of the development. Areas used for the collection of trash and
garbage shall be screened, both externally and internally, from view.
      3.   Internal Mobile Home Space Requirements:
   a. Minimum space width                      40 ft.
 Minimum space size                              4,000 sq. ft.
   b. Side yards (minimum):                     
 One side yard                                   5 ft.
 Other side yard                                 10 ft.
   c. Rear yard (minimum)                      10 ft.
   d. Front yard (minimum) from back of street 10 ft.
   e. Separation between mobile homes (minimum)15 ft.
   f. Paved off street parking per unit (minimu2 spaces
   g. Independent accessory building:           
 Minimum area                                    36 sq. ft.
 Maximum area                                    100 sq. ft.
 Setback from space boundary (minimum)           5 ft.
 Separation from any dwelling (minimum)          10 ft.
 
   h. Maximum area of space coverage by roofed area (roofed area is the sum of
the square footages of the mobile home dwelling plus carport and outdoor
recreation shelters, plus any independent accessory buildings; except, a
carport or recreation shelter which is open for 50 percent or more of its
perimeter shall be computed as 1/2 the area covered by the roof).
   i. A suitable paved outdoor living area shall be provided on each space and
shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet and have a minimum
dimension of ten feet (10'). This area may be covered with a roof, subject to
limitations imposed by lot coverage maximums. Parking areas and driveways shall
not be included as part of this outdoor living area. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 9, chapter 9 of this code.
10-6-5: SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES:
The special exception uses permitted in the residential districts, as
designated in table 1, section
10-6-2 of this chapter, are subject to the minimum requirements set out below
and such additional safeguards and conditions as may be imposed by the board of
adjustment:
   A.   Signs: The accessory use provisions of the residential districts
pertaining to signs are applicable to accessory signs for principal uses
permitted by special exception.
   B.   Children's Nurseries: In the RE and RS districts, children's nurseries
shall comply with the lot width, lot area, height, and yard requirements for
single-family use and, in addition, a maximum floor area ratio of 0.5 shall
apply.
   C.   Yard And Height Requirements: Except as provided in subsection B of
this section, and section
10-4-9 of this title, special exception uses shall comply with the least
restrictive yard and height requirements of the district in which located and,
in addition, shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Maximum floor area ratio of 0.5.
      2.   Minimum lot size of ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      3.   Minimum frontage of one hundred feet (100').
      4.   A minimum building setback of twenty five feet (25') from abutting
properties located within an R district.
Provided that if the use unit requirements are greater, the use unit
requirements shall control.
   D.   Wind Energy Conversion Systems: Wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
which comply with the requirements of subsection
10-5-3B3 of this title. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
   E.   Mobile Home In RS-3 District: Before placement of a mobile home on a
lot zoned RS-3, the owner of said mobile home must:
      1.   Apply for a special exception permit with the code enforcement
officer of the city. The code enforcement officer shall, upon receipt of an
application and fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) obtain from the owner the
following information:
         a.   A copy of the papers indicating the age of the home and codes to
which the mobile home is built.
         b.   A letter from the owner of each lot or portion of lot falling
within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed location of the mobile home
installation indicating that (s)he is not opposed to the placement of the
mobile home.
         c.   A sketch of the lot where the proposed mobile home installation
is to be made with the proposed placement of the mobile home sketched in, with
measurements, indicating that it meets all of the setback requirements that a
conventional home would be required to meet.
      2.   Upon receipt of the required information and application, the code
enforcement officer shall notify the city clerk who shall place the application
on the next city commission agenda for consideration of approval.
      3.   The applicant shall appear at the city commission meeting to
represent his or her application. Unless prior notification is given that the
applicant will be unable to be present, the application will be denied. If the
applicant gives notice that (s)he will be unable to be present at the city
commission meeting, the application will be tabled until the next following
regular city commission meeting.
      4.   The city commission, upon hearing the application, may approve, deny
or table the application. The commission shall make its determination on a case
by case basis, considering the character of the neighborhood where the mobile
home would be sited, the appearance of the mobile home as compared to other
residential structures in the immediate area and the comments of the residents
in the area.
   F.   Tiny Home: An exception may be requested for a tiny home of at least
four hundred fifty (450) square feet in an RS-3 District. The city commission,
upon hearing the application, may approve, deny or table the application. The
commission shall make its determination on a case-by-case basis, considering
the character of the neighborhood where the tiny home would be sited, the
appearance of the tiny home as compared to other residential structures in the
immediate area and the comments of the residents in the area. (Ord. 257, 12-8-
2008; amd. Ord. 348, 4-8-2024)
10-6-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW; MOBILE HOME PARKS AND MULTI-FAMILY COMPLEXES:
   A.   Purpose: By reason of potential adverse effects on public services or
to neighboring land uses, site plan review and approval is required for all
approved mobile home park developments and multi-family complexes over eight
(8) units for the purposes of assuring proper accessibility, circulation,
functional relationships of uses, and compatibility with adjoining and nearby
development. No building permit shall be issued nor use commenced on a site
approved for these uses except in accordance with a site plan submitted to and
approved by city staff.
   B.   Application For Site Plan Review: An application for site plan review
shall be filed with the planning commission staff. The application shall be in
such format and content as the planning commission may by resolution establish,
with three (3) copies of the site plan submitted. A site plan shall consist of
maps containing:
      1.   Proposed location of uses, including off street parking, open
spaces, public uses, and placement of mobile homes.
      2.   Location, height, and size of buildings and other structures.
      3.   Proposed location of all existing or proposed site improvements,
including drains, culverts, retaining walls and fences.
      4.   Public and private vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
      5.   Proposed location and development of buffer areas, screening and
landscaping.
      6.   Location of all residential uses expressed in number of dwelling
units.
      7.   Computation of lot area, building floor area, and building coverage.
      8.   Proposed location, height, and size of any ground sign.
      9.   Sufficient surrounding area to demonstrate the relationship of the
development to adjoining uses, both existing and proposed.
      10.   Existing topographic character of the land including identification
of floodplain areas, treed areas and slope analysis.
      11.   Explanation of the character of the development. (Ord. 165, 12-6-
1983)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purposes
10-7-2: Principal Uses Permitted
10-7-3: Accessory Uses
10-7-4: Bulk And Area Requirements
10-7-5: Special Exception Uses
10-7-6: Site Plan Review
10-7-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   General Purposes: The office districts are designed to preserve and
promote the development of efficient office facilities and to maximize the
compatibility with other land uses by:
      1.   Establishing bulk and area controls.
      2.   Requiring off street parking and loading facilities.
      3.   Establishing the several districts necessary to meet the need for a
variety of office types.
      4.   Controlling the number, area, location, and types of signs.
   B.   OL Office Low Intensity District: The OL district is designed to
facilitate the development and preservation of low intensity office
development.
   C.   OM Office Medium Intensity District: The OM district is designed to
provide area for offices, together with certain community facilities normally
compatible with primary office uses. It is designed to preserve existing medium
intensity office development and to facilitate the development of new medium
intensity office areas. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-7-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
The principal uses permitted in the office districts are designated by use
units. The use units are groupings of individual uses and are fully described,
including their respective off street parking, loading, and screening
requirements and other use conditions in chapter 11 of this title. The use
units permitted in office districts are set forth in table 1 of this section:
   Table 1
   USE UNITS PERMITTED
Use Condition1
No.            OLOMse Unit
Use Condition1
No.              Use Unit         OL OM
1.  Areawide uses by right                     X  X
2.  Areawide special exception uses            E  E
4.  Public protection and utility and open air E  E
    facilities (temporary)
5.  Community services, cultural and           E  X
    recreational facilities
8.  Multi-family dwelling and similar uses     E  E
10. Off street parking areas                   X  X
11. Offices and studios                        X  X
Note:
1. X – use by right; E – special exception.
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-7-3: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory uses customarily incident to a
principal use permitted in an office district are permitted in such a district.
In addition, the uses set forth in table 2 of this section are permitted as
accessory uses.
   Table 2
   ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED
Uses                                Districts
Barber and beauty shop              OL, OM
Convenience goods and services      OL, OM
Eating places, other than drive-ins OL, OM
Private clubs                       OL1, OM1
Shopping goods and services         OL1, OM
Signs:                               
Business                            OL, OM
Construction                        OL, OM
Real estate                         OL, OM
 
Note:
      1.   By special exception requiring board of adjustment approval subject
to the requirements set forth in section
10-7-5 of this chapter.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Accessory Use Conditions:
      1.   General Conditions:
         a.   Accessory buildings shall meet the minimum building setback lines
of the applicable district.
         b.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the
principal building shall be made structurally a part thereof, shall have a
common wall therewith, and shall comply with the requirements applicable to the
principal building.
      2.   Convenience Goods And Services And Shopping Goods And Services:
         a.   Limited to the uses included in use unit 13, section
10-11-13 of this title.
         b.   Shall be located entirely within the principal building.
         c.   Shall not occupy more than fifteen percent (15%) of the gross
floor area of the building in which located.
      3.   Eating Places Other Than Drive Ins:
         a.   Limited to the uses included in use unit 12, section
10-11-12 of this title, designed and located for the convenience of the
occupants of the principal building.
         b.   Shall be located entirely within the principal building.
         c.   Shall not occupy more than five percent (5%) of the gross floor
area of the building in which located.
         d.   Exterior signs identifying the eating place are prohibited.
      4.   Business Signs:
         a.   In the OL and OM districts, one business sign not exceeding
thirty two (32) square feet in surface area may be erected on each street
frontage of a lot. Ground signs shall not exceed the height of the building in
which the principal use is located or twenty feet (20'), whichever is lower. No
business sign shall be located within fifty feet (50') of an R district if
visible from such district. Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
         b.   During the period of construction, a temporary sign advertising
the construction of improvements on the premises may be located on each
arterial street frontage of the development. The sign shall not exceed one
hundred sixty (160) square feet in surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in
height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
         c.   A temporary real estate sign advertising the sale, rental, or
lease of the premises may be erected on each street frontage of a lot. The sign
shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in surface area nor fifteen feet
(15') in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
      5.   Private Clubs: Within the OM district the private club shall be
located entirely within the principal building and shall not occupy more than
five percent (5%) of the gross floor area of the building in which located.
      6.   Principal Office Structure: Within the OM district, the principal
office structure may include an eating place (5 percent maximum), private club
(5 percent maximum), and accessory goods and services (15 percent maximum), or
a total of twenty five percent (25%) maximum of the total gross floor area
devoted to the uses; provided, the eating place, private club, and accessory
convenient goods and services do not exceed the maximum allowable for each
individual use. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-7-4: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   Table 3
   BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
 OL OM
                                                                     OL   OM
Lot area (minimum square feet)                                       n/a  n/a
Frontage (minimum feet)
Arterial                                                             75   100
Not an arterial                                                      50   50
Floor area ratio (maximum)                                           0.25 0.50
Setback from centerline of abutting street (minimum feet):
Measured from centerline of abutting street; add 1/2 of the right of
way designated on the major street plan, or 25 feet if the street is
not designated on the major street plan
Arterial                                                             50   50
Not an arterial                                                      25   25
Setback from abutting AG or R district boundary lines (minimum feet) 10   101
Building height (maximum feet)                                       18   n/a
 
Note:
      1.   Plus 1 foot of setback for each 1 foot of building height exceeding
18 feet, if the abutting property is within an RE, RS, or RD district.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-7-5: SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES:
The special exception uses permitted in the office districts, as designated in
table 1, section
10-7-2 and table 2, section
10-7-3 of this chapter, are subject to the minimum requirements set out below
and such additional safeguards and conditions as may be imposed by the board of
adjustment:
   A.   The accessory use provisions of the office districts pertaining to
signs apply to signs which are accessory to uses permitted by special
exception; provided, that each sign permitted shall primarily identify the
principal office building; permitted accessory convenient goods and services
shall be secondary.
   B.   Multi-family use in the OL and OM districts shall comply with the bulk
and area requirements of the RM-1 district.
   C.   Convenience goods and services in the OL district shall comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   No accessory convenience goods and services shall be permitted
unless the principal building contains a minimum of fifty thousand (50,000)
square feet of floor space.
      2.   The permitted accessory goods and services listed below shall be
located entirely within the principal building and shall have its pedestrian
entrance and exit through the principal building.
      3.   Permitted accessory convenience goods and services in the OL
district are limited to the following uses and use groupings:
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Book store.
Florist.
Gift, novelty and souvenir shops.
Liquor store.
Medical, dental, optical, and orthopedic supplies (prescription service only).
Newsstand.
Stationery and office supplies.
Tobacco, candy, and nut store.
      4.   The permitted accessory convenience goods and services listed above
shall not occupy more than ten percent (10%) of the gross floor area of the
building in which located; provided that if a private club is requested that
the total gross floor area for all accessory uses, including a private club,
shall not exceed twelve and one-half percent (12.5%).
      5.   Each accessory use shall be limited to a maximum of two thousand
(2,000) square feet of floor area per specific use grouping listed in
subsection C3 of this section.
   D.   Private clubs or eating places, other than drive ins in the OL district
shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   The private club or eating place shall be located within the
principal building.
      2.   The private club or eating place shall not occupy more than five
percent (5%) of the gross floor area of the building in which located.
      3.   Exterior business signs identifying the private club or eating place
are prohibited.
   E.   Except as provided in section
10-4-9 of this title for public protection and utility facilities, a minimum
frontage of one hundred feet (100') is the requirement of the special exception
uses unless the use unit requirements are more restrictive, in which case the
more restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-7-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
By reason of potential adverse effects on public services or to neighboring
land uses, site plan review and approval is required for all office
developments for the purpose of assuring proper accessibility, circulation,
functional relationships of uses, and compatibility with adjoining and nearby
development. No building permit shall be issued nor use commenced within this
development except in accordance with an approved site plan. See subsections
10-8-7B and C of this title which also apply to the industrial site plan review
process. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purposes
10-8-2: Principal Uses Permitted
10-8-3: Accessory Uses
10-8-4: Bulk And Area Requirements
10-8-5: Special Exception Uses
10-8-6: Site Plan Review
10-8-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   General Purposes: The commercial districts are designed to:
      1.   Achieve the commercial objectives of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Meet the needs for commercial services and goods of the trade area.
      3.   Preserve and promote the development of efficient commercial
facilities and encourage a compatible relationship between commercial
facilities and other land uses and thoroughfares by:
         a.   Differentiating the types and purposes of commercial activities.
         b.   Establishing bulk and area controls.
         c.   Requiring off street loading and parking facilities.
         d.   Controlling the number, area, location, and types of signs.
         e.   Protecting the character of commercial districts and their
peculiar suitability for commercial uses.
   B.   CS Commercial And Shopping Center District: The CS district is designed
to accommodate convenience, neighborhood, subcommunity, community, and regional
shopping centers providing a wide range of retail and personal service uses.
   C.   CG Commercial General District: The CG district is designed to:
      1.   Accommodate existing development of mixed commercial uses which are
well established, while providing a degree of protection to adjacent
residential areas.
      2.   Accommodate the grouping of certain commercial and light industrial
uses which are compatible with one another.
   D.   CH Commercial High Intensity District: The CH district is designed to
accommodate high intensity commercial and related uses. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-8-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
The principal uses permitted in the commercial districts are designated by use
units. The use units are groupings of individual uses and are fully described,
including their respective off street parking, loading, and screening
requirements and other use conditions in chapter 11 of this title. The use
units permitted in commercial districts are set forth in table 1 of this
section.
   Table 1
   USE UNITS PERMITTED
Use Condition1  
No.  Use UnitCS CG CH
Use Condition1  
No.  Use Unit                                                        CS CG CH
1.  Areawide uses by right                                            X  X  X
2.  Areawide special exception uses                                   E  E  E
4.  Public protection and utility and open air facilities (temporary) X  X  X
5.  Community services, cultural and recreational facilities          X  X  X
8.  Multi-family dwelling and similar uses                            E  E  E
10. Off street parking areas                                          X  X  X
11. Offices and studios                                               X  X  X
12. Eating places other than drive ins                                X  X  X
13. Convenience goods and services                                    X  X  X
14. Shopping goods and services                                       X  X  X
15. Other trades and services                                            X  X
16. Gasoline service stations                                         E  X  X
17. Automotive and allied activities                                  E  X  X
18. Drive in restaurants                                                 X  X
19. Hotel, motel, and recreation facilities                           E  X  X
20. Commercial recreation intensive                                      E  E
21. Business signs and outdoor advertising                            X  X  X
22. Warehousing and wholesaling                                          E  X
24. Light manufacturing and industrial; research and development         E  E
Note:
1. X – use by right; E – special exception.
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-8-3: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory uses customarily incident to a
principal use permitted in a commercial district are permitted in such
district.
   B.   Accessory Use Conditions:
      1.   Accessory buildings shall meet the minimum building setback lines of
the applicable district.
      2.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the principal
building shall be made structurally a part thereof, shall have a common wall
therewith, and shall comply with the requirements applicable to the principal
building.
      3.   Signs in the commercial districts, whether accessory or principal
uses, are subject to the use conditions of use unit 21, section
10-11-21 of this title. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-8-4: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   Table 2
   BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
 CS CG CH
                                                        CS   CG   CH
Frontage (minimum feet)
Arterial and freeway service road                       150  100  n/a
Not an arterial                                         50   50   n/a
Floor area ratio (maximum)                              0.35 0.50 n/a
Setback from centerline of abutting street (min. ft.):
Measured from centerline of abutting street; add
    1/2 of the right of way width designated on the
major street plan, or 25 feet if the street is not
designated on the major street plan
Arterial                                                50   50   n/a
Not an arterial                                         25   25   n/a
Setback from abutting R district boundary lines         101  101  n/a
(minimum feet)
Building height (maximum feet)                          n/a  n/a  n/a
 
Note:
      1.   Plus 2 feet of setback for each 1 foot building height exceeding 15
feet if the abutting property is an RE, RS, RD, or RM-T district.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-8-5: SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES:
   A.   Multi-family use, where permitted by special exception, shall comply
with the bulk and area requirements of the RM-2 district.
   B.   Except as provided above, all special exception uses shall comply with
the bulk and area requirements of the use district in which located. (Ord. 165,
12-6-1983)
10-8-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Purposes: By reason of potential adverse effects on public services or
to neighboring land uses, site plan review and approval is required for all
commercial developments for the purposes of assuring proper accessibility,
circulation, functional relationships of uses, and compatibility with adjoining
and nearby development. No building permit shall be issued nor use commenced
within this development except in accordance with an approved site plan.
   B.   Application For Site Plan Review: An application for site plan review
shall be filed with the planning commission staff. The application shall be in
such format and content as the planning commission may by resolution establish,
with three (3) copies of the site plan submitted. The plan must show
information showing compliance with applicable sections of this title and all
other applicable city codes and ordinances. The planning commission may
delegate and assign the review and approval of site plan to its staff on tracts
less than eighteen thousand (18,000) square feet or structural amendment of
less than two thousand (2,000) square feet or ten percent (10%) (whichever is
greater). Appeals from denial of staff shall be made to the planning
commission. The planning commission's decision shall be final.
   C.   Contents Of Site Plan: The site plan shall contain:
      1.   Proposed location of uses, including off street parking design and
layout (see chapter 12 of this title for minimum required dimensions and design
standards), open spaces and public uses.
      2.   Location, height, and size of buildings and other structures.
      3.   Proposed location of all existing or proposed site improvements
including curb lines, curb cuts and their radii, neighboring curb cuts, drains,
culverts, retaining walls and fences.
      4.   Internal public and private vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
      5.   Proposed location and development of buffer areas, screening and
landscaping.
      6.   The intensity of uses expressed in floor area, allocated to each
identifiable segment of the development.
      7.   A computation of lot area, building floor area, and building
coverage for each type of proposed use.
      8.   Proposed location, height, and size of any ground signs.
      9.   Sufficient surrounding area to demonstrate the relationship of the
development to adjoining uses, both existing and proposed.
      10.   Existing topographic character of the land including identification
of floodplain areas, treed areas, slope analysis and soil analysis.
      11.   An explanation of the character of the development. (Ord. 165, 12-
6-1983)
ARTICLE A. SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Definitions
10-8A-2: Establishment And Location Restrictions
10-8A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall mean as follows:
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Includes:
   A.   The fondling or other touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts;
   B.   Ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation; and
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C of this definition.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
Adult Amusement Or Entertainment: Amusement or entertainment which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on acts or material depicting,
describing or relating to "sexual conduct" or "specified anatomical areas", as
defined herein, including, but not limited to, topless or bottomless dancers,
exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar
entertainment.
Adult Bookstore: An establishment having as a significant portion of its stock
in trade books, film, magazines and other periodicals which are distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
Adult Mini Motion Picture Theater: An enclosed building with a capacity of less
than fifty (50) persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
Adult Motel: A motel wherein material is presented, as part of the motel
services, via closed circuit TV or otherwise, which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
Adult Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled, still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual
conduct or specified anatomical areas.
Adult Motion Picture Theater: An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty
(50) or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
Massage Parlor: Any place where for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body occurs as
part of or in connection with sexual conduct or where any person providing such
treatment, manipulation or service related thereto exposes specified anatomical
areas.
Model Studio: Any place other than university or college art classes where, for
any form of consideration or gratuity, figure models who display specific
anatomical areas are provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by persons paying such
consideration or gratuity.
Sexual Encounter Center: Any building or structure which contains, or is used
for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is charged
a fee to engage in personal contact with or to allow personal contact by,
employees, devices or equipment or by personnel provided by the establishment
which appeals to the prurient interest of the patron, to include, but not to be
limited to, bathhouses, massage parlors, and related or similar activities.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Includes:
   A.   Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breasts below a
point immediately above the top of the areola.
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-8A-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location: No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of
the "sexually oriented businesses" as defined in section
10-8A-1 of this article, in an area zoned other than CS and CG. In addition, no
person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the "sexually oriented
businesses", as defined in section
10-8A-1 of this article within one thousand feet (1,000') of any other sexually
oriented business, or within five hundred feet (500') of a church, school,
(type which offers a compulsory education curriculum), public or private park,
or within three hundred feet (300') of areas zoned residential or within three
hundred feet (300') of a nonarterial street which provides access to a
residentially zoned area. Provided further that the board of adjustment may
permit by special exception "sexually oriented businesses", as defined in
section
10-8A-1 of this article in an IL, IM or IH district, subject to the distance
limitations set forth herein.
   B.   Establishment Described: The establishment of a sexually oriented
business shall include the opening of such business as a new business, the
relocation of such business, the enlargement of such business in either scope
or area, or the conversion of an existing business location of any of the uses
described in this article.
   C.   Illegal Business Or Activity: Nothing in this title is intended to make
legal any business or activity that is expressly declared illegal under the
provision of this code or under any state or federal laws. (Ord. 165, 12-6-
1983)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purposes
10-9-2: Principal Uses Permitted
10-9-3: Accessory Uses
10-9-4: Bulk And Area Requirements
10-9-5: Special Exception Uses
10-9-6: Site Plan Review
10-9-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   General Purposes: The industrial districts are designed to:
      1.   Achieve the industrial objectives of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Meet the needs for industrial services and goods of the city trade
area.
      3.   Preserve and promote the development of efficient industrial areas
and to minimize the adverse effects of industrial uses on other land uses and
thoroughfares by: (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
         a.   Differentiating the types and purposes of industrial areas or
industrial activities. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
         b.   Establishing bulk and area controls.
         c.   Requiring off street loading and parking facilities.
         d.   Controlling the number, area, location, and types of signs.
         e.   Protecting the character of industrial districts and their
peculiar suitability for industrial uses.
   B.   IL Industrial Light Manufacturing And Research And Development
District: The IL district is designed to provide an environment conducive to
the development and conservation of modern industrial and scientific research
facilities and to provide areas suitable for manufacturing, wholesaling,
warehousing, and other industrial activities which have no objectionable
environmental influences.
   C.   IM Industrial Moderate District: The IM district is designed to group
together a wide range of industrial uses which may produce moderately
objectionable environmental influences in their operation and appearance.
   D.   IH Industrial Heavy District: The IH district is designed to provide
areas for manufacturing and other industrial activities which may constitute
substantial objectionable environmental influences or hazards. (Ord. 165, 12-6-
1983)
10-9-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
The principal uses permitted in the industrial districts are designated by use
units. The use units are groupings of individual uses and are fully described,
including their respective off street parking, loading, and screening
requirements and other use conditions in chapter 11 of this title. The use
units permitted in industrial districts are set forth in table 1 of this
section.
   Table 1
   USE UNITS PERMITTED
Use Condition1  
No. Use Unit IL IM IH
Use Condition1  
No. Use Unit                                     IL IM IH
1.  Areawide uses by right                       X  X  X
2.  Areawide special exception uses              E  E  E
3.  Agriculture                                  X  X  X
4.  Public protection and utility and open       X  X  X
    air facilities (temporary)
10. Off street parking areas                     X  X  X
11. Offices and studios                          X  X  X
12. Eating places other than drive ins           E  E  E
13. Convenience goods and services               E  E  E
14. Shopping goods and services                  E  E  E
15. Other trades and services                    X  X  X
16. Gasoline service stations                    X  X  X
17. Automotive and allied activities             X  X  X
20. Commercial recreation; intensive             E  X  X
21. Business signs and outdoor advertising       X  X  X
22. Warehousing and wholesaling                  X  X  X
23. Mining and mineral processing                   E  E
24. Light manufacturing and industrial; research X  X  X
    and development
25. Moderate manufacturing and industrial           X  X
26. Heavy manufacturing and industrial                 X
Note:
1. X – use by right; E – special exception.
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-9-3: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory uses customarily incident to a
principal use permitted in an industrial district are permitted in such
district.
   B.   Accessory Use Conditions:
      1.   Accessory buildings shall meet the minimum building setback lines of
the applicable district.
      2.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the principal
building shall be structurally a part thereof, shall have a common wall
therewith, and shall comply with the requirements applicable to the principal
building.
      3.   Accessory storage of materials, equipment, or products within two
hundred feet (200') of an abutting R district shall be screened by the erection
of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or lines in common with the
abutting R district.
      4.   Business signs for scientific research facilities and institutions
not exceeding in the aggregate 0.5 square feet of display surface area per one
lineal foot of street frontage may be erected on each street frontage of a lot.
Ground signs shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in height. No business sign
shall be located within fifty feet (50') of an R district if visible from such
district. Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
      5.   Except as provided in subsection B4 of this section, accessory signs
in the IL, IM, and IH districts are subject to the use conditions in use unit
21, section
10-11-21 of this title. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-9-4: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   Table 2
   BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
 IL IM IH
                                                        IL  IM  IH
Frontage (minimum feet)
Arterial                                                150 200 200
Not an arterial                                         100 100 100
Floor area ratio (maximum)                              n/a n/a n/a
Setback from centerline of abutting street (min. ft.):
Measured from centerline of abutting street; add to
the distance designated in the column to the right,
    1/2 of the right of way width designated on the
major street plan, or 25 feet if the street is not
designated on the major street plan
Arterial                                                50  50  50
Not an arterial                                         25  25  25
Setback from abutting AG, R, or O district boundary     75  150 150
lines (minimum feet)1
Building height (maximum feet)                          n/a n/a n/a
 
Note:
      1.   Does not apply when lot abuts a freeway zoned AG, R or O; however,
in those instances a 10 foot setback shall be required.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-9-5: SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES:
Special exception uses shall conform to the bulk and area requirements of the
zoning district in which located. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-9-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
By reason of potential adverse effects on public services or to neighboring
land uses, site plan review and approval is required for all industrial
developments for the purpose of assuring proper accessibility, circulation,
functional relationships of uses and compatibility with adjoining and nearby
development. No building permit shall be issued nor use commenced within this
development except in accordance with an approved site plan. See subsections
10-8-7B and C of this title which also apply to the industrial site plan review
process. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Description
10-10-2: Purposes
10-10-3: General Provisions
10-10-4: Uses Permitted
10-10-5: Bulk And Area Requirements
10-10-6: Perimeter Requirements
10-10-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-10-8: Administration Of Planned Unit Development
10-10-1: DESCRIPTION:
Planned unit development is an alternative to conventional development where
the particular tract is under common ownership or control, and a detailed plan
(outline development plan) for the development of the tract as a unit is
proposed and submitted for public review. The supplemental zoning district PUD
must be approved by the city commission as a prerequisite to the planned unit
development. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-10-2: PURPOSES:
The purposes of the planned unit development are to:
   A.   Permit innovative land development while maintaining appropriate
limitation on the character and intensity of use and assuring compatibility
with adjoining and proximate properties.
   B.   Permit flexibility within the development to best utilize the unique
physical features of the particular site.
   C.   Provide and preserve meaningful open space.
   D.   Achieve a continuity of function and design within the development.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-10-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Planned unit development is permitted on tracts having the supplemental
district designation PUD. In every instance, the PUD is to be reviewed as to
the proposed location and character of the uses and the unified treatment of
the development of the tract. The regulations of the general zoning district or
districts remain applicable except as specifically modified pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. No modification of use or bulk and area
requirements of the applicable general use district or districts shall be
permitted unless a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions and
requirements of this chapter is submitted to and approved by the planning
commission and city commission and filed of record in the office of the county
clerk of the county in which property is located. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-10-4: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Principal Uses: The development may consist of one or more of the uses
(except uses contained within use unit 21, section
10-11-21 of this title) permitted by right or exception within the general
zoning district or districts within which the planned unit development is
located, provided: 1) that if any part of the planned unit development is
located within a residential district, the permitted uses may additionally
include one or more of the dwelling types contained in use unit 6, single-
family dwelling, section
10-11-6 of this title; use unit 7, duplex dwelling, section
10-11-7 of this title; use unit 8, multi-family dwelling and similar uses,
section
10-11-8 of this title; 2) that use unit 9, mobile home dwelling, section
10-11-9 of this title is a permitted use only within the planned unit
developments which are located in whole or in part in an RMH district. The
permitted uses may be reallocated within the development irrespective of the
general zoning district boundaries.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses customarily incident to the principal
uses within the PUD are permitted.
      1.   Accessory Commercial: In addition to accessory uses customarily
incidental to a permitted principal residential use, accessory use, accessory
commercial facilities may be included within the residential portion of a PUD
in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   The accessory commercial uses shall be limited to the following
uses:
Bakery, retail only.
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Book store.
Cafeteria.
Candy store.
Coffee shop.
Dairy store.
Delicatessen.
Dry cleaning, pickup.
Food specialty shop.
Gift, novelty, souvenir shop.
Grocery (other than supermarkets).
Health food store.
Hobby shop.
Ice cream store.
Laundry, pickup.
Liquor store.
Newsstand.
Offices (performing services to residential areas).
Pharmacy.
Private club.
Pro shop.
Restaurant (other than drive ins).
Shoe repair shop.
Tailor shop.
Tobacco store.
         b.   The aggregate floor area of the accessory commercial facilities
shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet per dwelling unit nor a total of thirty
thousand (30,000) square feet.
         c.   Each accessory commercial establishment except private clubs or
restaurants shall be limited to a maximum of three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet of floor area.
         d.   Accessory commercial signs shall be limited to one nameplate of
not more than sixteen (16) square feet for each establishment. Nameplates shall
be attached flat against a building wall and shall not be animated, flashing,
or have other than indirect illumination. Window signs shall not be permitted.
         e.   The accessory commercial uses shall be internally oriented,
designed primarily for the service, convenience, and benefit of the residents
of the PUD, and shall be designed and located in such manner as to be
compatible with the residential use of the PUD and of adjacent properties. No
freestanding accessory commercial structure shall be located within three
hundred feet (300') of the perimeter of a planned unit development.
      2.   Signs: Signs accessory to residential uses or uses permitted by
exception in residential districts shall comply with the provisions of the
residential districts. Business signs accessory to principal office, commercial
or industrial uses shall not exceed the following limitations, provided the
approving authority may impose such additional restrictions as are necessary to
maximize compatibility with other neighboring uses:
         a.   General Use Conditions:
            (1)   No outdoor advertising signs shall be permitted.
            (2)   No roof, projecting, flashing (does not include time and
temperature signs), animated or revolving signs are permitted.
            (3)   No ground sign shall be located within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of any residential area, either within or abutting the PUD, unless
separated by an arterial street.
            (4)   Any ground sign shall maintain a minimum separation of one
hundred feet (100') from any other ground sign.
            (5)   Ground signs shall not exceed twenty five feet (25') in
height, measured from the mean curb level of the lot upon which it is erected,
except a sign when located behind the building setback line may exceed twenty
five feet (25'), but shall not exceed forty feet (40') in height.
            (6)   Only one side of a double faced sign shall be included in
computation of display surface area.
            (7)   The following signs shall not be included in the computation
of display surface area:
               (A)   Nameplates, attached to the face of the wall and not
exceeding two (2) square feet in surface area.
               (B)   Temporary real estate and construction signs.
               (C)   Signs which are not visible from a public street.
               (D)   Signs painted on glass surface of windows or doors, and
pertaining to the business conducted therein.
               (E)   Tablets built into the wall of a building or other
structure and used for inscriptions or as memorial tablets or for similar
purposes.
               (F)   Signs of warning, directive, or instructional nature
erected by a public utility, franchised transportation company or governmental
agency.
               (G)   Legal notices and street numbers.
               (H)   Election campaign signs, if erected not more than forty
five (45) days prior to an election and removed within seven (7) days following
an election.
               (I)   Signs located within a building.
               (J)   Signs, not exceeding three (3) square feet of display
surface area, of a warning, directive or instructional nature, including
entrance, exit and restroom signs.
               (K)   Signs which are attached as labels of a commodity offered
for sale.
         b.   Designated Nonresidential Development Area:
            (1)   The aggregate display surface area for wall or canopy signs
shall not exceed two (2) square feet per each lineal foot of the building wall
to which the sign or signs are affixed.
            (2)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted in
subsection B2b(1) of this section, a lot containing one or more business
establishments may utilize for business signs an aggregate display surface area
of ground signs as follows:
               (A)   If not more than one ground sign is erected, one square
foot of display surface area per each lineal foot of street frontage, provided
that only arterial street frontage shall be used in the computation of display
surface area for lots that abut more than one street. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
               (B)   If more than one ground sign is erected, 0.5 square foot
of display surface area per each linear foot of street frontage, provided that
only arterial street frontage shall be used in the computation of display
surface area for lots that abut more than one street.
            (3)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted in
subsection B2b(1) of this section, and in addition to the business signs
permitted in B2b(2) of this section, a lot containing four (4) or more business
establishments may erect one ground sign for each arterial street frontage
identifying the commercial complex and individual tenants therein, not
exceeding in aggregate display area one square foot per four (4) linear feet of
arterial street frontage. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
10-10-5: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intensity Of Use: It is the intent of this title that the aggregate
intensity of use within the planned unit development remain substantially the
same as that which would be permitted if the area were developed
conventionally, but that within the development, the intensity may be
reallocated irrespective to the general zoning district boundaries.
      1.   Residential Intensity: The residential intensity shall not exceed a
maximum number of dwelling units computed as follows:
Maximum number of permitted dwelling units = gross area 1  of property located
within a residential district divided by the minimum land area per dwelling
unit permitted in the applicable use district.
The minimum land area per dwelling unit, for the purpose of the above described
computation, shall be the least restrictive minimum land area per dwelling unit
permitted in the applicable district as set forth in subsections
10-6-4A and B of this title. Each six hundred (600) square feet of a quasi-
dwelling, such as a care home, shall constitute a dwelling unit. If the PUD is
within two (2) or more residential districts, the permitted density shall be
the sum of the permitted dwelling units computed separately for the gross area
within each district. For a PUD located totally within a residential district
or districts, the gross area for the purposes of the above described
computation shall be reduced by the area or areas designated for any principal
use other than dwellings, quasi-dwellings, residential open space and
recreation areas.
      2.   Nonresidential Intensity: The nonresidential intensity shall not
exceed a maximum permitted floor area computed as follows:
Maximum permitted floor area = gross area 1  of property located within a
nonresidential district multiplied by the floor area ratio permitted either by
right or exception within the bulk and area requirements of the applicable use
district, except where a floor area ratio is not specified, a floor area of
0.75 shall apply.
      3.   Intensities For Multiple Use PUD: The intensity of use of a PUD
located within two (2) or more zoning districts of the following differing
general classifications: residential; office; commercial; or industrial shall
be separately calculated and allocated within the planned unit development by
said general classification.
   B.   Lot Width And Lot Area Minimums: Within a PUD, a minimum lot size
requirement of eight hundred (800) square feet shall apply to lots utilized for
dwelling purposes. A minimum lot width requirement of twenty feet (20') shall
apply to lots utilized for dwelling purposes.
   C.   Livability Space: Within a PUD, livability space shall be provided in
an aggregate amount of not less than the amount of livability space required by
the applicable use district for conventional development of a comparable number
of dwelling units. Required livability space shall be provided on the lot
containing the dwelling unit or units on which computed, or in common areas.
Common livability space shall be designed and located so as to be accessible to
the dwelling units it is intended to serve. Provisions for the ownership and
maintenance of common livability space as will ensure its continuity and
conservation shall be incorporated in the subdivision plat, in compliance with
the provisions of subsection
10-10-8E of this chapter.
   D.   Building Height And Yards: Within a PUD, the planning commission shall
prescribe building height limitations and minimum yards, which shall be
incorporated within the subdivision plat in compliance with the provisions of
subsection
10-10-8E of this chapter.
   E.   Setbacks From Abutting Public Streets: Within a PUD, building setbacks
from abutting public streets, for residential use, shall not be less than as
prescribed for an RM-1 district as set out within section
10-6-4 of this title. Within a PUD, building setbacks from abutting public
streets for nonresidential uses shall not be less than as prescribed for an OM
district as set out within section
10-7-4 of this title. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
 
Notes
  1. For the purposes of intensity computations, gross area shall mean the lot
1 area plus /2 of the right of way of any abutting street to which the lot has
  access.
  1. For the purposes of intensity computations, gross area shall mean the lot
1 area plus /2 of the right of way of any abutting street to which the lot has
  access.
10-10-6: PERIMETER REQUIREMENTS:
The planning commission shall prescribe perimeter requirements for screening,
landscaping, and setbacks, as are necessary to assure compatibility with
adjoining and proximate properties, which shall be incorporated within the
subdivision plat in compliance with the provisions of subsection
10-10-8E of this chapter. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-10-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as specified in the
applicable use units and in conformance with the requirements of chapter 12 of
this title. Required spaces may be provided on the lot containing the uses for
which it is intended to serve or in common areas. Common parking area shall be
designed and located so as to be accessible to the uses it is intended to
serve. Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of common parking space as
will ensure its continuity and conservation shall be incorporated in the
subdivision plat, in compliance with the provisions of subsection
10-10-8E of this chapter. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-10-8: ADMINISTRATION OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   General: Any person, corporation, partnership, association, or
combination thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in or to
a tract of land may make application for the supplemental district designation
PUD. Such application shall be accompanied by an outline development plan
processed in the manner set forth in subsections B, C and D of this section. An
application for the supplemental district designation PUD may be processed
simultaneously with an application for an amendment to the general zoning
district and made contingent upon approval of said application.
   B.   Application And Outline Development Plan: An application for a planned
unit development shall be filed with the planning commission. The application
shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with the established fee schedule.
Such fee shall not include advertising and sign costs which shall be billed to
the applicant. The application shall be in such form and content as the
planning commission may by resolution establish, provided that eighteen (18)
copies of an outline development plan shall accompany the filing of the
application. The outline development plan shall consist of maps and text which
contain:
      1.   A site plan reflecting:
         a.   Proposed location of uses, including off street parking, open
spaces and public uses.
         b.   Development standards for location, height, setback and size of
buildings and other structures.
         c.   Public and private vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
         d.   The approximate intensity of residential uses expressed in number
of dwelling units and the approximate intensity of nonresidential uses
expressed in floor area, allocated to each identifiable segment of the planned
unit development.
         e.   Proposed screening and landscaping.
         f.   Proposed location, height and size of any ground sign.
         g.   Sufficient surrounding area to demonstrate the relationship of
the PUD to adjoining uses, both existing and proposed.
      2.   Existing topographic character of the land including identification
of floodplain areas, treed areas, slope analysis and soil analysis.
      3.   An explanation of the character of the PUD.
      4.   The expected schedule of development.
      5.   Detailed landscaping plan.
      6.   The planning commission may require elevations and perspective
drawings of the proposed buildings as part of required detailed site plan
review.
   C.   Public Hearing And Planning Commission Action:
      1.   The planning commission, upon the filing of an application for the
PUD supplemental district designation, shall set the matter for public hearing
and give proper notice as provided in subsection
10-14-4B of this title. Within sixty (60) days after the filing of an
application, the planning commission shall conduct the public hearing and shall
determine:
         a.   Whether the PUD is consistent with the comprehensive plan.
         b.   Whether the PUD is in harmony with the existing and expected
development of surrounding areas.
         c.   Whether the PUD is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site.
         d.   Whether the PUD is consistent with the stated purposes and
standards of this chapter.
      2.   The planning commission shall forward its recommendation, the
application, and the outline development plan to the board of commissioners for
further hearing as provided in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Board Of Commissioners Action: Upon receipt of the application, outline
development plan, and planning commission recommendation, the board of
commissioners shall review the outline development plan and approve,
disapprove, modify, or return the outline development plan to the planning
commission for further consideration. Upon approval, the zoning map shall be
amended to reflect the supplemental designation PUD, and the applicant shall be
authorized to process a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions of the
outline development plan.
   E.   Planned Unit Development Subdivision Plat: A planned unit development
subdivision plat shall be filed with the planning commission and shall be
processed in accordance with the subdivision regulations, and, in addition to
the requirements of the subdivision regulations, shall include:
      1.   Details as to the location of uses and street arrangement.
      2.   Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of the common open
space as will reasonably ensure its continuity and conservation. Open space may
be dedicated to a private association or to the public, provided that a
dedication to the public shall not be accepted without the approval of the
board of commissioners.
      3.   Such covenants as will reasonably ensure the continued compliance
with the approved outline development plan. The planning commission may require
covenants which provide for detailed site plan review and approval of
individual lots by said commission prior to the issuance of any building
permits within the PUD. In order that the public interest may be protected, the
city shall be made beneficiary of covenants pertaining to such matters as
location of uses, height of structures, setbacks, screening, and access. Such
covenants shall provide that the city may enforce compliance therewith, and
shall further provide that amendment to such covenants shall require the
approval of the planning commission and the filing of record of a written
amendment to the covenants, endorsed by the planning commission.
   F.   Issuance Of Building Permits: After the filing of an approved PUD
subdivision plat and notice thereof to the building inspector, no building
permits shall be issued on lands within the PUD except in accordance with the
approved outline development plan. A building permit for a freestanding or
separate commercial structure within a PUD containing no commercial zoning
shall not be issued until building permits have been issued for at least one-
half (1/2) of the number of dwelling units on which the authorization of the
commercial use is based.
   G.   Amendments: Minor changes in the PUD may be authorized upon approval by
the planning commission and board of commissioners which may direct the
processing of an amended subdivision plat, incorporating such changes, so long
as a substantial compliance is maintained with the outline development plan and
the purposes and standards of the PUD provisions thereof. Changes which would
represent a significant departure from the outline development plat shall
require compliance with the notice and procedural requirements of an original
planned unit development.
   H.   Abandonment: Abandonment of a planned unit development shall require
the board of commissioner's approval, after recommendation by the planning
commission, of an application for amendment to the zoning map repealing the
supplemental designation of the PUD. Upon final action authorizing the
abandonment of the planned unit development, no building permit shall be issued
except in accordance with the restrictions and limitations of the general
zoning district or districts. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
CHAPTER 11
USE UNITS
SECTION:
10-11-0: Introduction Of Use Units
10-11-1: Use Unit 1 Areawide Uses By Right
10-11-2: Use Unit 2 Areawide Special Exception Uses
10-11-3: Use Unit 3 Agriculture
10-11-4: Use Unit 4 Public Protection And Utility And Open Air Facilities
(Temporary)
10-11-5: Use Unit 5 Community Services, Cultural And Recreational Facilities
10-11-6: Use Unit 6 Single-Family Dwelling
10-11-7: Use Unit 7 Duplex Dwelling
10-11-8: Use Unit 8 Multi-Family Dwelling And Similar Uses
10-11-9: Use Unit 9 Mobile Home Dwelling
10-11-10: Use Unit 10 Off Street Parking Areas
10-11-11: Use Unit 11 Offices And Studios
10-11-12: Use Unit 12 Eating Places Other Than Drive Ins
10-11-13: Use Unit 13 Convenience Goods And Services
10-11-14: Use Unit 14 Shopping Goods And Services
10-11-15: Use Unit 15 Other Trades And Services
10-11-16: Use Unit 16 Gasoline Service Stations
10-11-17: Use Unit 17 Automotive And Allied Activities
10-11-18: Use Unit 18 Drive In Restaurants
10-11-19: Use Unit 19 Hotel, Motel, And Recreation Facilities
10-11-20: Use Unit 20 Commercial Recreation; Intensive
10-11-21: Use Unit 21 Business Signs And Outdoor Advertising
10-11-22: Use Unit 22 Warehousing And Wholesaling
10-11-23: Use Unit 23 Mining And Mineral Processing
10-11-24: Use Unit 24 Light Manufacturing And Industrial; Research And
Development
10-11-25: Use Unit 25 Moderate Manufacturing And Industrial
10-11-26: Use Unit 26 Heavy Manufacturing And Industrial
10-11-0: INTRODUCTION OF USE UNITS:
   A.   General: The use unit is a grouping of individual uses having
similarities in characteristics of function and/or performance which enable
systematic consideration of location and other regulation. Within each zoning
district, the permitted uses are the included uses of the designated use unit.
The use units, herein established, are identified by number and name. Set forth
in each use unit is a descriptive statement, an alphabetical listing of the
included uses, use conditions, and off street parking and loading requirements.
   B.   Interpretation: Questions of the inclusion or exclusion of a particular
principal use within a use unit shall be decided by the board of adjustment. A
use, if specifically listed in a use unit, shall not by interpretation be
included as a principal use within any other use unit.
   C.   Applicability Of Use Conditions: A use shall be subject to the
provision of the district in which located, and, in addition, shall be subject
to the use conditions specified in the applicable use unit. Where the
requirements of the use unit are greater than the requirements of the use
district, the use unit requirements shall govern.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: The off street parking and
loading requirements shall not apply to uses located within the CH commercial
high intensity district. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-1: USE UNIT 1 AREAWIDE USES BY RIGHT:
   A.   Description: Certain public uses, agricultural uses, open land uses,
and similar uses which are either subject to other public controls or which do
not have adverse effects on other land uses.
   B.   Included Uses: Passive agricultural uses such as: cultivation,
forestry, grazing, planting; open land uses such as: arboretum, flood
management project, reservoir, wildlife preserve; public uses such as: fire
alarm, historical marker, street sign, thoroughfare, utility line, political
campaign signs.
   C.   Use Conditions; Political Campaign Signs: No political campaign sign
shall be erected more than forty five (45) days prior to any election, nor
shall any sign be permitted to remain on any property more than seven (7) days
following an election; no political campaign signs shall be permitted on public
property and they shall be permitted on private property only with the consent
of the property owner; the display surface area of each political campaign sign
located in R or O zoning districts shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in
surface area; only one side of a double faced sign shall be computed in the
computation of display surface area.
   D.   Off Street Parking: None. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-2: USE UNIT 2 AREAWIDE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES:
   A.   Description: Uses which in some instances may be suitable for location
in any use district but, because of their potentially adverse influence on
adjacent properties, require site review and are, therefore, permitted in all
use districts as a special exception requiring board of adjustment approval.
   B.   Included Uses: Airport, heliport, bus station, cemetery, crematory,
governmental services NEC, hydro electric generation plant, mausoleum, post
office, sanitary landfill, sewage disposal facility, water treatment plant, off
site construction facility, juvenile delinquency center and temporary office
structures not otherwise allowed by building and zoning codes.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   The use may continue for a period not to exceed two (2) years in the
same location.
      2.   Ingress and egress must be from arterial or collector streets,
provided that the board of adjustment may approve a location with access to a
minor street upon a finding that such location would not result in increased
traffic on streets in residential areas.
      3.   The use shall not be located nearer than one hundred feet (100') to
any lot containing an occupied dwelling without the consent of the owner
thereof.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
              Parking Spaces                 Loading Berths
                                              1 per 2,000 - 40,000 sq. ft. of
Airport    1 per each 500 sq. ft. of enclosed floor area, plus 1 per 40,000 -
           passenger terminal area            100,000 sq. ft., plus 1 per
                                              each additional 100,000 sq. ft.
           As may be required by the board of
Other uses adjustment in granting the special  
           exception use
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-3: USE UNIT 3 AGRICULTURE:
   A.   Description: Agricultural uses and services and certain other uses
suitable for location in an agricultural environment.
   B.   Included Uses: Animal and poultry raising, farming, fishery, ranching,
chick hatchery, guest or dude ranch, and riding stable or academy, dairy
farming, and horticultural nursery.
   C.   Use Conditions: Horticultural nursery permits the growing of plant
stocks only and permits no retail sales on site.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: None. (Ord. 165, 12-6-
1983)
10-11-4: USE UNIT 4 PUBLIC PROTECTION AND UTILITY AND OPEN AIR FACILITIES
(TEMPORARY):
   A.   Description: Public protection and utility facilities which may have
technical locational requirements necessitating specific locations in or around
area services, and certain temporary open air land uses which can be
objectionable to certain other uses and are, therefore, permitted in certain
districts by special exception and in the remaining districts by right.
   B.   Included Uses: Ambulance service, electric regulation station
(excluding storage or service garages and yards), fire protection facility,
pressure control station (gas or liquid, excluding storage or service garages
and yards), shelter (civil defense or storm), transmitting tower (excluding
amateur radio tower), water storage facility NEC, temporary open air facilities
such as carnival, Christmas tree sales, circus, and tent revival.
   C.   Use Conditions: Temporary open air facilities may continue for a period
not to exceed sixty (60) days per each application for special exception
approved by board of adjustment.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: None. (Ord. 165, 12-6-
1983)
10-11-5: USE UNIT 5 COMMUNITY SERVICES, CULTURAL AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Description: Community services, cultural and recreational facilities
which are needed in residential areas to serve the residents or need a
residential environment, but which are or can be objectionable to nearby
residential uses. These uses are permitted by special exception in some
districts, by right in some districts, and prohibited in other districts.
   B.   Included Uses: Aquarium, art gallery (not operated for profit), care
home, sanitarium, children's nursery, church, college, community center,
convent, cultural facility NEC, day camp, golf course, halfway house, hospital,
library, marina, monastery, museum, novitiate, planetarium, private club or
lodge (the chief activity which is a service and is not operated as a business
or for profit, and which hold and maintain an income tax exempt status).
Includes charitable, eleemosynary, educational and recreational establishments,
public park, public tennis court, schools, offering a compulsory education
curriculum and university.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   Churches: Churches when located within an AG or R district:
         a.   Minimum lot area of one acre and minimum lot width of one hundred
feet (100').
         b.   No parking shall be permitted within a required front yard.
      2.   Schools: High schools shall have their principal vehicular entrance
and exit on an arterial street.
      3.   College, University, Convent, Monastery, Novitiate, Hospital: A
minimum site area of one acre shall apply.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 Parking Spaces Loading Berths
                         Parking Spaces             Loading Berths
Aquarium, art gallery,                              1 per 10,000 - 20,000 sq.
museum, planetarium,     1 per 400 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
cultural facility NEC    area                       additional 200,00 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Care home, nursing home, 1 per 500 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
sanitarian               area                       additional 100,000 sq. ft
                                                    of floor area
Children's nursery       1 per 400 sq. ft. of floor    n/a
                         area
                         1 per 400 sq. ft. of       1 per 10,000 - 200,000 sq.
Church                   chapel or sanctuary floor  ft., plus 1 per each
                         area                       additional 200,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
                         1 per 400 sq. ft. of       1 per 10,000 - 200,000 sq.
                         classroom floor area plus  ft., plus 1 per each
College, university      1 per 4 dormitory beds     additional 200,000 sq. ft.
                         plus 1 per 3 stadium seats of floor area
                                                     
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Community center         1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
                         area                       additional 100,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Convent, monastery,      1 per 800 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
novitiate                area                       additional 200,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
                         6 per green, plus 1 per    1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Golf course              400 sq. ft. of club house  ft., plus 1 per each
                         floor area                 additional 100,000 sq. ft,
                                                    of floor area
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Halfway house, hospital  1 per bed                  ft., plus 1 per each
                                                    additional 100,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor are
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 200,000 sq.
Library                  1 per 300 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
                         area                       additional 200,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Private club             1 per 250 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
                         area                       additional 100,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
                         1 per 3 stadium seats,
                         plus 1 per 200 sq. ft. of  1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Public park              community center or        ft., plus 1 per each
                         recreation building, plus  additional 100,000 sq. ft.
                         1 per 200 sq. ft. of pool  of floor area
                         area
Schools:                                            
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 200,000 sq.
Elementary and junior    1 per 800 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
high                     area                       additional 200,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 200,000 sq.
Senior high, if parking  1 per 600 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
areas are combined       area, plus 1 per 3 stadium additional 200,000 sq. ft.
                         seats                      of floor area
                                                     
If parking is separate   1 per 600 sq. ft. of floor
and if                   area, plus 1 per 3 stadium  
stadium does not exist   seats
                         2 per court, plus 1 per    1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Tennis courts            400 sq. ft. of clubhouse   ft., plus 1 per each
                         area                       additional 100,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-6: USE UNIT 6 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING:
   A.   Description: Single-family detached dwelling.
   B.   Included Uses: Single-family detached dwelling.
   C.   Use Conditions: None.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                               Parking Spaces      Loading Berths
Single-family detached dwelling 2 per dwelling unit n/a
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-7: USE UNIT 7 DUPLEX DWELLING:
   A.   Description: Duplex dwelling.
   B.   Included Uses: Duplex dwelling.
   C.   Use Conditions: None.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
               Parking Spaces      Loading Berths
Duplex dwelling 2 per dwelling unit n/a
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-8: USE UNIT 8 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING AND SIMILAR USES:
   A.   Description: Multi-family dwellings and similar uses.
   B.   Included Uses: Fraternity or sorority houses, multi-family dwelling,
rooming/boarding house, and townhouse.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   Fraternity, Sorority, Rooming/Boarding House: In the determination
of the applicable bulk and area requirements, a fraternity, sorority, or
rooming/boarding house shall be considered a multi-family dwelling, with each
six hundred (600) square feet of floor area constituting a one-bedroom dwelling
unit.
      2.   Townhouse: A townhouse development is subject to approval of a
subdivision plat by the board of commissioners after receiving prior review and
recommendations of the planning commission, in accord with existing laws and
regulations, and the subsequent filing in the office of the county clerk of the
county in which the property is located.
      3.   Screening Requirements: The uses included in use unit 8, when
located on a lot abutting an RE, RS, or RD district, shall be screened from the
abutting RE, RS, and RD district by the erection and maintenance of a screening
wall or fence along the lot line or lines in common with these R districts.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                       Parking Spaces               Loading Berths
Fraternity or sorority                              1 per 10,000 - 200,000 sq.
house                  1 per 2 beds                 ft., plus 1 per each
                                                    additional 200,000 sq. ft.
                       1.5 per efficiency or 1
Multi-family dwelling  bedroom dwelling unit; 2 per None
                       2 or more bedroom dwelling
                       unit
                                                    1 per 10,000 - 200,000 sq.
Rooming/boarding house 1 per 1 bed                  ft., plus 1 per each
                                                    additional 200,000 sq. ft.
                       1.5 per efficiency or 1
Townhouses             bedroom dwelling unit; 2 per None
                       2 or more bedroom dwelling
                       unit
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-9: USE UNIT 9 MOBILE HOME DWELLING:
   A.   Description: Mobile home dwelling, excluding travel, camp or
recreational vehicles.
   B.   Included Uses: Mobile home dwelling.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   All mobile home dwellings placed in any district by right or special
exception shall be certified that they have been constructed and comply with
the national mobile home construction and safety standards.
      2.   The mobile home dwelling when located within an RMH district and
located on a lot which is abutting an RE, RD, RM-T or RS district shall be
screened from the abutting RE, RS, RM-T or RD district by the erection and
maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or lines in common
with RE, RS, RM-T or RD district.
      3.   All mobile home dwellings placed in any district by right or special
exception shall be properly anchored.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
           Parking Spaces                  Loading Berths
Mobile home 2 per each mobile dwelling unit None
 
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-10: USE UNIT 10 OFF STREET PARKING AREAS:
   A.   Description: Off street parking areas which are principal uses.
   B.   Included Uses: Off street parking areas.
   C.   Use Conditions: Off street parking areas shall conform to the design,
lighting, and improvement requirements for off street parking contained in
chapter 12 of this title.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Not applicable. (Ord. 165,
12-6-1983)
10-11-11: USE UNIT 11 OFFICES AND STUDIOS:
   A.   Description: Offices, studios, medical and dental laboratories, and
certain other compatible or supporting services.
   B.   Included Uses: Abstract company; advertising agency; artist's studio;
broadcasting or recording studio; computing service; copying service; data
processing service; drafting service; dental clinic and laboratory; employment
agency; financial institution (other than pawnshop); funeral home; medical and
dental offices, clinics and laboratories; general business offices (excluding
on premises sale of merchandise); optician or optical offices/laboratories;
photography studio; prescription pharmacy (provided that no sundry or other
merchandise is sold or offered for sale); studio or school for teaching ballet,
dance, drama, fine arts, music, language, business, or modeling, transportation
ticket office; travel agency; and veterinary office (excluding boarding
services); interior design consultant (no retail sales).
   C.   Use Conditions: The uses included in use unit 11, when located on a lot
which is abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district
by the erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line
or lines in common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                      Parking Spaces              Loading Berths
                      1 per 40 sq ft. of assembly 1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
                      floor area plus 1 per 300   ft., plus 1 per each
Funeral home          sq.                         additional
                      ft. of nonassembly floor    100,000 sq. ft. of floor area
                      area
Medical and dental                                1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
offices, clinics, and 1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor  ft., plus 1 per each
laboratories          area                        additional
                                                  100,000 sq. ft. of floor area
                                                  1 per 10,000 - 100,000 sq.
Other uses            1 per 300 sq. ft. of floor  ft.,
                      area                        plus 1 per each additional
                                                  100,000 sq. ft. of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-12: USE UNIT 12 EATING PLACES OTHER THAN DRIVE INS:
   A.   Description: Eating places offering on premises consumption of food and
drink within the principal structure and/or providing carryout service if no
curb service is provided, and if no in car on premises consumption is
permitted. Use unit 12 is established in recognition of the desirability of
providing dining facilities in certain environments in which commercial
facilities of a higher use intensity would be objectionable.
   B.   Included Uses: Eating places such as: cafeteria, coffee shop,
delicatessen, and restaurant.
   C.   Use Conditions: The uses included in use unit 12, when located within a
district other than an R district and located on a lot which is abutting an R
district, shall be screened from the abutting R district by the erection and
maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or lines in common
with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
             Parking Spaces                  Loading Berths
                                              1 per 2,000 - 10,000 sq. ft.,
Eating places 1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area plus 1 per each additional 15,000
                                              sq. ft. of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-13: USE UNIT 13 CONVENIENCE GOODS AND SERVICES:
   A.   Description: Retail trade and service establishments which are
desirable conveniences in certain residential and office districts. Use unit 13
is established to permit the location of convenience goods and services in
certain environments in which commercial facilities of a higher use intensity
would be objectionable.
   B.   Included Uses: Retail trade establishments such as drugstore, florist,
bakery, candy and confection and/or nut store, dairy store, food specialty
store, grocery, health food store, ice cream store, gift, novelty, and souvenir
shop, liquor store, newsstand, tobacco store; and service establishments such
as dry cleaning and pickup, barbershop, beauty shop, and laundry and pickup.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   In the CS district there shall be no open air storage or display of
merchandise offered for sale within three hundred feet (300') of an abutting R
district.
      2.   The uses included in use unit 13, when located within a district
other than an R district and located on a lot which is abutting an R district,
shall be screened from the abutting R district by the erection and maintenance
of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or lines in common with the R
district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                        Parking Spaces             Loading Berths
Grocery store            1 per 100 sq. ft. of floor 1 per 2,000 - 10,000 sq.
                         area                       ft.of floor area
                                                    1 per 5,000 - 10,000 sq.
Retail trade and service 1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per each
establishments           area                       additional 15,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-14: USE UNIT 14 SHOPPING GOODS AND SERVICES:
   A.   Description: Retail establishments engaged in the merchandising of
shopping goods and services.
   B.   Included Uses: Retail trade establishments such as commercial art
gallery, antique shop, artist supply store, automotive parts and accessories
store, bicycle shop, bookstore, business and office machine sales
establishment, camera and photographic supply store, clothing and accessories
store, cosmetic shop, department store, dressmaking shop, dry goods store, fur
storage, furriers, garden supply store, hardware store, hobby shop, home
furnishing store (selling appliances, china, glassware, metalware, draperies,
curtains, upholstery, floor coverings, and furniture), jewelry store, leather
goods and luggage store, medical, dental, and orthopedic appliances and supply
store, musical instrument and supply store, office furnishings establishment,
office supplies store, paint store, pawnshop, pet shop, phonograph and record
shop, radio and TV sales, shoe repair shop, shoe store, sporting goods store,
stationery store, tailor shop, toy shop, variety store, wallpaper store, wig
shop; and retail building material establishments, exclusive of fabrication or
repair, such as building materials, electrical supply, and plumbing fixtures;
and service establishments, such as caterer, costume rental service, dry
cleaning (limited to 7,000 square feet of floor area), gun smith, household
appliance repair, interior decorating, self-service laundromat (coin operated),
locksmith, photofinishing, picture framing, radio and television repair, and
watch and jewelry repair.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   In the CS district there shall be no open air storage or display of
merchandise offered for sale within three hundred feet (300') of an abutting R
district.
      2.   The uses included in use unit 14, when located on a lot which is
abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district by the
erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or
lines in common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
               Parking Spaces                  Loading Berths
                                                1 per 2,000 - 25,000 sq. ft.,
Furniture store 1 per 300 sq. ft. of floor area plus 1 per each additional
                                                25,000 sq. ft. of floor area
All other uses  1 per 25 sq. ft. of floor area  Plus 1 per each additional
                                                25,000 sq. ft. of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-15: USE UNIT 15 OTHER TRADES AND SERVICES:
   A.   Description: Trade establishments primarily providing business and
household maintenance goods and services ordinarily not found in the primary
retail districts because of differing market and site requirements.
   B.   Included Uses: Trade establishments, including incidental fabricating,
processing, installation, and repair: air conditioning and heating, bait shops,
wholesale bakery, bottled gas, carpeting, decorating, fencing, fuel oil,
general merchandising establishment NEC, glass, greenhouse, heating equipment,
ice plant, lumberyard, model homes, monument (excluding shaping), pawnshop,
plastic materials, plumbing shop, portable storage building sales, printing and
publishing, reproduction services, and vending machines sales and services;
service establishments such as disinfecting and exterminating services,
janitorial service, and window cleaning; contract construction service such as
air conditioning, carpentry, decorating, electrical, furnace cleaning,
landscape contractor, painting, paper hanging, plastering, plumbing, sign
painting, tile setting; armored car service; and personal services such as
auctioneer, bindery, cabinet maker, drapery service, frozen food locker,
kennel, laundry, linen supply and industrial laundry, packing and crating of
household and other similar goods, rug cleaning, taxidermist, woodworking shop;
repair services such as armature rewinding service, business machine repair,
computer repair, data processing machine repair, electrical repair service,
furniture, mattresses and pillows, reupholstery, and rug repair; and schools
such as barber, beauty and trade.
   C.   Use Conditions: The uses included in use unit 15, when located on a lot
which is abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district
by the erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line
or lines in common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                      Parking Spaces             Loading Berths
                       1 per 400 sq. ft. of floor 1 per 5,000 - 25,000 sq. ft.,
Trade establishments   area                       plus 1 per each additional
                                                  25,000 sq. ft. of floor area
                       1 per 400 sq. ft. of floor 1 per 5,000 - 25,000 sq. ft.,
Service establishments area                       plus 1 per each additional
                                                  25,000 sq. ft. of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-16: USE UNIT 16 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS:
   A.   Description: Establishments engaged in the retail sale of gasoline,
lubricants, tires, batteries, and automobile accessories and performing minor
repair, installation, and maintenance services.
   B.   Included Uses: Gasoline service stations, oil and lubrication service
(3 bay maximum) tune up service (3 bay maximum).
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   The uses included in use unit 16, when located on a lot which is
abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district by the
erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or
lines in common with the R district.
      2.   Within the CS district there shall be no open air storage or display
of merchandise offered for sale or rental within three hundred feet (300') of
an adjoining R district, except the incidental open air display of tires,
batteries, lubricants, and automobile accessories.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Not applicable. (Ord. 165,
12-6-1983)
10-11-17: USE UNIT 17 AUTOMOTIVE AND ALLIED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Description: Automotive and allied activities.
   B.   Included Uses: Sales: aircraft, agriculture implement, automobile (new
and used), boat, camper, mobile home, motorcycle, and truck; and services:
automobile rental, auto wash, vehicle repair and service and ministorage.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   The uses included in use unit 17, when located on a lot which is
abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district by the
erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or
lines in common with the R district.
      2.   Within the CS district, there shall be no open air storage or
display of merchandise offered for sale within three hundred feet (300') of an
adjoining R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                           Parking Spaces             Loading Berths
Agriculture implements,    1 per 600 sq. ft. of floor 1 per 5,000 - 10,000 sq.
automotive, camper, mobile area, plus 1 per 1,000 sq. ft., plus 1 per each
home, motorcycle and truck ft. of open air display    additional 15,000 sq. ft.
sales                      storage, or service area   of floor area
                           1 per 600 sq. ft. of floor
                           area, plus adequate off
                           street parking shall be
Automobile rental          provided for storage of    n/a
                           rental vehicles. No on
                           street parking of rental
                           vehicles shall be
                           permitted
Vehicle repair             1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor n/a
                           area
Auto wash                  n/a                        n/a
Ministorage                1 per 5,000 sq. ft. of     n/a
                           floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-18: USE UNIT 18 DRIVE IN RESTAURANTS:
   A.   Description: Eating establishments providing curb service or offering
food or drink for on premises consumption within parked motor vehicles, or
permitting the on premises consumption of food or drink within the parked motor
vehicle or outside the principal structure.
   B.   Included Uses: Drive in restaurants.
   C.   Use Conditions: The uses included in use unit 18, when located on a lot
which is abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district
by the erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line
or lines in common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                    Parking Spaces             Loading Berths
                                                1 per 5,000 - 25,000 sq. ft. of
Drive in restaurants 1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor floor areas plus 1 per
                     area                       additional 25,000 sq. ft. of
                                                floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-19: USE UNIT 19 HOTEL, MOTEL, AND RECREATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Description: Commercial amusement establishments ordinarily not
requiring large sites and which have use characteristics permitting their
location in or near developed commercial trade areas.
   B.   Included Uses: Billiard parlor, bowling alley, dance hall, weight
reduction center, enclosed commercial recreation establishments NEC, gymnasium,
health club, hotel, motel, motion picture theater (enclosed), nightclub,
skating rink (enclosed), slot car track, swimming pool (enclosed), and tavern.
   C.   Use Conditions: The uses included in use unit 19, when located on a lot
which is abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district
by the erection of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or lines in
common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
               Parking Spaces                  Loading Berths
                                               1 per 40,000 - 150,000 sq. ft.,
                                               plus 1 per each additional
               1 per sleeping room, plus 1 per 150,000 sq. ft. of floor area,
Hotel, motel   200 sq. ft of accessory         plus 1 per 5,000 - 25,000 sq.
               facilities such as restaurants  ft. of accessory facilities such
               and taverns                     as restaurants and taverns, plus
                                               1 per each additional 25,000 sq.
                                               ft. of floor area
                                               1 per 5,000 - 25,000 sq. ft.,
All other uses 1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area plus 1 per each additional
                                               25,000 sq. ft. of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-20: USE UNIT 20 COMMERCIAL RECREATION; INTENSIVE:
   A.   Description: Commercial recreation facilities, the principal activities
of which are usually open air, located in undeveloped outlying sections of the
city.
   B.   Included Uses: Amusement activities NEC, arena, drag strip, drive in
theater, fairgrounds, go cart track, golf driving range, miniature auto track,
outdoor recreation NEC, race tracks (auto, dog, horse), rodeo grounds, and
stadiums NEC and commercial camp ground.
   C.   Use Conditions: The uses included in use unit 20, when located on a lot
which is abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district
by the erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line
or lines in common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                          Parking Spaces            Loading Berths
Golf driving              1 per tee                 n/a
Drive in theater          n/a                       n/a
Uses providing spectator                            1 per 5,000 - 25,000 sq.
seating such as stadiums, 1 per 3 seats             ft., plus 1 per each
arenas and rodeo grounds                            additional 25,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
                                                    1 per 5,000 - 25,000 sq.
Other uses                1 per 600 sq. ft. of site ft., plus 1 per each
                          area                      additional 25,000 sq. ft.
                                                    of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-21: USE UNIT 21 BUSINESS SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING:
   A.   Description: Business signs and outdoor advertising.
   B.   Included Uses: Business signs, outdoor advertising signs.
   C.   General Location Requirements:
      1.   Street Setback: No sign or portion thereof shall be permitted in the
right of way of any street or area designated in the Drumright master street
plan as a future street under any circumstances, except authorized traffic
signals, signs or devices.
      2.   Intersection Setback: No sign shall be located less than thirty five
feet (35') from the intersection of the pavement of two (2) streets or from the
intersection of street pavement and a railroad track.
      3.   Traffic Signal Clearance: No sign shall be located in such a manner
as to obstruct or obscure or in any manner interfere with any traffic signal
light or public warning sign.
      4.   Obstruction Of View: Signs when located in such a manner so as to
prevent any motorists from obtaining a clear view of approaching vehicles for a
distance of five hundred feet (500') along an expressway or other public right
of way, are prohibited.
      5.   Business Or Outdoor Advertising Sign: No business or outdoor
advertising sign shall be located within fifty feet (50') of an R district if
visible from such district.
      6.   Flashing Sign: No flashing sign shall be located within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of an abutting R district if visible from such district,
provided, if the districts are separated by a public street, the district shall
not be deemed abutting.
      7.   Ground Sign: Any ground sign shall maintain a minimum separation of
forty feet (40') from any other ground sign, except side by side ground signs
located on a common line perpendicular to the nearest street need not maintain
a forty foot (40') separation.
   D.   General Use Conditions:
      1.   Only one side of a double faced sign shall be included in the
computation of display surface area.
      2.   The following signs shall not be included in the computation of
display surface area:
         a.   Nameplates, attached to the face of the wall and not exceeding
two (2) square feet in surface area.
         b.   Temporary real estate and construction signs.
         c.   Signs which are not visible from a public street.
         d.   Signs painted on glass surfaces of windows or doors and
pertaining to the business conducted therein.
         e.   Tablets built into the wall of a building or other structure and
used for inscriptions or as memorial tablets or for similar purposes.
         f.   Signs of warning, directive, or instructional nature erected by a
public agency, franchised transportation company, or governmental agency.
         g.   Legal notices and street numbers.
         h.   Election campaign signs, if erected not more than forty five (45)
days prior to an election and removed within seven (7) days following an
election.
         i.   Signs located within a building.
         j.   Signs not exceeding three (3) square feet of display surface area
of a warning, directive, or instructional nature, including entrance, exit, and
restroom signs.
         k.   Signs which are attached labels of a commodity offered for sale.
      3.   In computing permitted display surface area, the lineal footage of
an abutting nonarterial street shall not be combined with the lineal footage of
any abutting arterial street which is included in the computation of permitted
display surface area.
      4.   Ground signs shall be set back from the centerline of an abutting
street one-half (1/2) of the right of way width designated on the major street
plan, or one-half (1/2) of the dedicated right of way, whichever is greater; or
twenty five feet (25') if the street is not designated on the major street
plan.
   E.   AG District Use Conditions:
      1.   Business signs and outdoor advertising may only be erected on a lot
abutting designated state and federal highways.
      2.   Display surface area limitations shall not apply.
      3.   A minimum five hundred foot (500') spacing shall be maintained
between signs except in the case of back to back signs, v-shaped signs, or
signs separated by a building or other obstruction.
   F.   CS District Use Conditions:
      1.   A ground sign shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in height, measured
from the mean curb level of the lot upon which it is erected, unless, in
addition to the minimum setback prescribed in subsection C7 of this section,
the sign is set back one foot (1') for each foot of height exceeding thirty
feet (30'), provided the sign shall not exceed fifty feet (50') regardless of
setback. Within one hundred feet (100') of the right of way of an abutting
elevated street, a ground sign may be erected to a height fifteen feet (15')
above the elevation of the street if the sign is designed to be viewed
primarily from the elevated street and the sign height does not exceed sixty
feet (60').
      2.   A roof sign shall not extend more than twelve feet (12') above the
mean roof level of the structure to which it is affixed.
      3.   A projecting sign shall not extend more than nine feet (9') above
the mean roof level of the structure to which it is affixed.
      4.   A lot located in a CS district may utilize for business signs and
outdoor advertising:
         a.   An aggregate display surface area for wall or canopy signs of
three (3) square feet per each lineal foot of the building wall to which the
sign or signs are affixed.
         b.   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted in subsection
F4a of this section, a lot containing one business establishment may utilize
for business signs and outdoor advertising an aggregate display surface area of
roof, projecting, or ground signs as follows:
            (1)   If not more than one roof, projecting, or ground sign is
erected, two (2) square feet of display surface area per each lineal foot of
street frontage.
            (2)   If more than one roof, projecting, or ground sign is erected,
one square foot of display surface area per each lineal foot of street
frontage.
         c.   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted in subsection
F4a of this section, a lot containing more than one business establishment may
erect roof, projecting, or ground signs as follows:
            (1)   One sign for each street frontage identifying the commercial
complex and individual tenants therein, not exceeding in aggregate display
surface area one square foot per each lineal foot of street frontage.
            (2)   In addition to the sign or signs permitted in subsection F4c
(1) of this section:
               (A)   One sign for each tenant may be erected not exceeding one
square foot of display surface area per each lineal foot of frontage building
wall of the tenancy or sixty (60) square feet, whichever is greater.
               (B)   If more than one sign is erected for a single tenant, the
aggregate display surface area shall not exceed one square foot per each lineal
foot of front building wall.
         d.   An unimproved lot may, as a matter of right, erect outdoor
advertising signs without size limitation, if located behind the building
setback line, provided that upon the occupancy of any building on the lot, any
sign not complying with the display surface area limitations set out above
shall be removed within thirty (30) days from such occupancy.
   G.   CG And IL District Use Conditions: For business signs and outdoor
advertising erected in front of the building line, a lot may utilize an
aggregate display surface area as follows:
      1.   If not more than one projecting or ground sign is erected, three (3)
square feet of display surface area per each lineal foot of street frontage.
      2.   If more than one projecting or ground sign is erected, two (2)
square feet of display surface area per each lineal foot of street frontage.
   H.   CH, IM, And IH District Use Conditions: Within the CH, IM, and IH
districts, display surface area limitations shall not apply.
   I.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Not applicable. (Ord. 165,
12-6-1983)
10-11-22: USE UNIT 22 WAREHOUSING AND WHOLESALING:
   A.   Description: Warehousing, wholesaling, and trucking often located
adjacent to the central business district, in industrial parks served by rail
and highway transportation, and port areas.
   B.   Included Uses: Warehouses NEC, wholesale establishments NEC, storage
NEC, trucking establishments, and truck rentals.
   C.   Use Conditions: The uses included in use unit 22, when located on a lot
which is abutting the boundary of an R district, shall be screened from the
abutting R district by the erection and maintenance of a screening wall or
fence along the lot line or lines in common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
        Parking Spaces                    Loading Berths
                                           1 per 5,000 - 25,000 sq. ft., plus 1
All uses 1 per 5,000 sq. ft. of floor area per each additional 25,000 sq. ft.
                                           of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-23: USE UNIT 23 MINING AND MINERAL PROCESSING:
   A.   Description: Extractive operations, certain mineral processing
operations and manufacturing operations which directly utilize minerals at or
near the source.
   B.   Included Uses: Mining, quarrying, or extraction of coal, ores, stone,
sand, or gravel; processing of mineral products such as crushing, washing, and
grading of coal, ore, stone, sand, or gravel; manufacture of portland cement,
concrete or asphaltic concrete at the source of supply of crushed rock, sand,
or gravel, for utilization off the premises.
   C.   Use Conditions: The board of adjustment, in granting a mining and
mineral processing use by special exception, shall consider potential
environmental influences, such as dust and vibration, and shall establish in
the particular instance appropriate protective conditions, such as setbacks,
screening, and method of operation as will mitigate the adverse effect on
appropriate land uses.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
        Parking Spaces                    Loading Berths
All uses 1 per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area n/a
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-24: USE UNIT 24 LIGHT MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL; RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Description: Light manufacturing and industrial uses having slight or
no objectionable environmental influences by reason of the emission of odor,
heat, smoke, noise, or vibration; and facilities for scientific research,
development, and testing, which are customarily located on large, landscaped
sites and the operation of which does not produce objectionable environmental
effects.
   B.   Included Uses: Enclosed scientific research, testing, and development;
bottling plant; building, contract construction service and storage such as
cesspool cleaning, concrete construction service; grain elevators; heavy
construction contracting service; masonry; oil well drilling and cleaning;
roofing, sheet metal, stone work, water well drilling and cleaning, and welding
shop; any light industrial or manufacturing use, but in no case shall any of
the following uses be allowed: aluminum, brass, copper, iron or steel foundry
or works; acetylene gas manufacture in excess of fifteen (15) pounds pressure
per square inch; ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture; asphalt
manufacture or refining; auto salvage yards; blast furnace, except as a minor
and incidental part of another permitted industrial use; boiler works or forge
works; brick, tile, or terra cotta manufacture; celluloid manufacture, coke
manufacture, creosote manufacture or treatment, disinfectant or insecticide
manufacture; distillation of bones, coal, tar, or wood; dyestuff manufacture,
fat rendering, fertilizer manufacture (organic), gas (heating or illuminating)
manufacture or storage, except where such gas is to be entirely consumed on the
same premises; glue, gelatin, or size manufacture; incineration or reduction of
dead animals, garbage, offal or refuse other than that accumulated and consumed
within order on the same premises; lampblack manufacture, match manufacture;
lime, cement, or plaster of paris manufacture; oilcloth or linoleum
manufacture; pickle, sausage, sauerkraut, or vinegar manufacture; paint, oil,
varnish, or turpentine manufacture; paper or pulp manufacturing by sulphide
processes emitting noxious gases or odors; printing ink manufacture; rayon or
cellophane manufacture; refining of petroleum or other crude materials; rolling
mill; rubber manufacture from crude materials; shoddy manufacture; soda ash,
caustic soda and washing compound manufacture; slaughtering of animals;
smelting; soap manufacture; starch, glucose, dextrine manufacture; stockyards;
storage of dismantled automobiles or any form of junk; sugar refining; acid
manufacture for wholesale, tallow, grease, or lard manufacture or refining,
tanning or curing of leather, raw hides or skins or storage of raw hides or
skins; tar distillation or manufacture; tar roofing or tar waterproofing
manufacture; wool scouring; hair manufacture; yeast manufacture for wholesale;
trades, industries, or uses having moderately objectionable environmental
influences by reason of the emission of odor, heat, smoke, noise or vibration.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   Enclosed scientific research, testing, and development facilities
included in use unit 24, when located in an IL district, shall be conducted
within enclosed buildings. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
      2.   All other uses included in use unit 24, which are located within
three hundred feet (300') of an R district, when located on a lot which is
abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district by the
erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or
lines in common with the R district. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   The uses included in use unit 24, when located on a lot which is
abutting an R district, shall be screened from the abutting R district by the
erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or
lines in common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
                        Parking Spaces             Loading Berths
                                                    1 per 5,000 - 40,000 sq.
Research and development 1 per 500 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per 40,000 -
facilities               area                       100,000 sq. ft., plus 1 per
                                                    each additional 100,000 sq.
                                                    ft. of floor area
                                                    1 per 2,000 - 40,000 sq.
                         1 per 800 sq. ft. of floor ft., plus 1 per 40,000 -
All other uses           area                       100,000 sq. ft., plus 1 per
                                                    each additional 100,000 sq.
                                                    ft. of floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-25: USE UNIT 25 MODERATE MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL:
   A.   Description: Manufacturing and industrial uses having moderately
objectionable environmental influences by reason of the emission of odor, heat,
smoke, noise, or vibration.
   B.   Included Uses: All industrial and manufacturing uses except the
following: cement, lime, gypsum, plaster of paris, or asphalt manufacturing;
chloride or hydrochloric, nitric, picric, sulphurous, sulfuric acid, or ammonia
manufacture; distillation of bones, explosive manufacture or storage; fat
rendering; fertilizer manufacture from mineral or organic materials; garbage,
offal, or dead animal reduction or dumping; glue manufacture, petroleum
refining; refuse dump; slaughter of animals; smelting, stockyards; and trades,
industries, or uses that have heavily objectionable environmental influences by
reason of the emission of odor, heat, smoke, noise, or vibration.
   C.   Use Conditions:
      1.   The uses included in use unit 25, which are located within three
hundred feet (300') of an R district, shall be conducted within enclosed
buildings.
      2.   The uses included in use unit 25, when located on a lot which is
abutting an R district, shall be screened from the adjacent R district by the
erection and maintenance of a screening wall or fence along the lot line or
lines in common with the R district.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
        Parking Spaces                  Loading Berths
                                         1 per 2,000 - 40,000 sq. ft., plus 1
All uses 1 per 800 sq. ft. of floor area per 40,000 - 100,000 sq. ft., plus 1
                                         per each additional 100,000 sq. ft. of
                                         floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-11-26: USE UNIT 26 HEAVY MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL:
   A.   Description: Manufacturing and industrial uses having substantial
objectionable environmental influences by reason of the emission of odor, heat,
smoke, noise, or vibration. Refining petroleum and other crude materials.
   B.   Included Uses: Manufacturing or industrial uses not elsewhere
classified.
   C.   Use Conditions: None.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
 
        Parking Spaces                  Loading Berths
                                         1 per 2,000 - 40,000 sq. ft., plus 1
All uses 1 per 800 sq. ft. of floor area per 40,000 - 100,000 sq. ft., plus 1
                                         per each additional 100,000 sq. ft. of
                                         floor area
 
See chapter 12 of this title for required minimum dimensions and design
criteria. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
CHAPTER 12
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Applicability Of Requirements
10-12-3: General Requirements
10-12-4: Setbacks And Screening Requirements
10-12-5: Design Standards For Off Street Parking Areas
10-12-6: Design Standards For Off Street Loading Areas
10-12-7: Site Plan Review
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of this chapter to assure that adequate off street parking is
provided with the construction, alteration, remodeling or change of use of any
building or change in the use of land. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-12-2: APPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENTS:
The off street parking and off street loading facilities, whether they are
principal uses, accessory uses, or a minimum requirement for the initiation,
enlargement, or change of use, shall meet the requirements of this chapter as
follows:
   A.   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date of this title, parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the applicable use unit.
   B.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises shall
be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, seating
capacity, or other units of measurement specified herein for required parking
or loading facilities, parking and loading facilities as required herein shall
be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
   C.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter be
changed to a new use, parking and/or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the building or structure was erected
prior to the effective date of this title, additional parking and/or loading
facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the
new use would exceed those for the existing use, if the latter were subject to
the parking and loading provisions of this title.
   D.   Accessory off street parking and loading facilities in existence on the
effective date of this title and located on the same lot as the building or use
served shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than, shall not
be further reduced below the requirements for a similar new building or use
under the provisions of this title.
   E.   Any existing building or use that is enlarged, structurally altered, or
remodeled to the extent of increasing or changing the use by more than fifty
percent (50%) as it existed at the effective date of this title shall be
accompanied by off street parking for the entire building or use in accordance
with the off street parking regulations set forth in this chapter. When the
enlargement, structural alteration, or remodeling is to the extent that the use
is not increased or changed by more than fifty percent (50%), additional off
street parking shall only be required for the increased or changed floor area
or use. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-12-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Space Allocation: Off street parking and off street loading facilities
shall not occupy required livability space. Space allocated to any required off
street loading berth shall not be used to satisfy the space requirements for
any off street parking facilities. Space allocated to any required off street
parking shall not be used to satisfy the space requirements of any off street
loading facilities.
   B.   Front Or Side Yards: Within the front and exterior side yards in the RM
districts, except RM-T, not more than one vehicle shall be parked for each six
hundred (600) square feet of area contained in the front or exterior side
yards.
   C.   Use Restricted: Required off street parking spaces and required off
street loading berths shall not be used for the storage, sale, dismantling, or
servicing of any vehicle, equipment, materials, or supplies.
   D.   Location: Required off street parking spaces shall be located on the
same lot, tract, parcel, or premises as the use being served or on other
property of the same or less restrictive zoning classification that the owner
of the premises being served has a continuing right to use for parking. When
the required off street parking spaces are not located on the same lot, tract,
parcel, or premises being served, the distance from the parking lot to an
entrance to the building or use shall not exceed five hundred feet (500') in
distance, measured along the shortest available pedestrian route with public
access.
   E.   Enclosed Areas: Required enclosed off street parking and loading areas
shall meet the bulk and area requirements of the use district in which located,
except that enclosed off street parking and loading areas which are required
shall not be included in the computation of permitted floor area.
   F.   Capacity: The capacity of an off street parking area shall be the
number of parking spaces having required dimensions located thereon in such a
manner that each space can be entered without passing through another space.
   G.   Commercial And Multi-Family Developments: Required off street parking
in commercial, office, industrial and multi-family developments, other than
townhouses, zones shall be so arranged that no maneuvering incidental to
parking movements takes place on any public street.
   H.   Number Of Spaces: The number of off street parking spaces required for
each building or use shall be determined by reference to the appropriate use
unit (1-26) 1  within which the proposed use is classified. Where several
different property uses will share a joint parking area, the parking
requirements shall be computed based upon the overall development. For any use
not listed, or where the listed regulations are not applicable in the judgment
of the staff, the parking requirements shall be determined by staff.
Computations of required parking spaces by staff shall be final.
   I.   Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area, if
any, shall be by constant light and shall be so arranged as to direct the light
away from properties within an R district which do not contain uses for which
the parking is being provided.
   J.   Surface: Unenclosed off street parking areas shall be surfaced with a
dust free all weather material. Surfacing shall be completed prior to the
initiation of the use. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
 
Notes
1 1.See chapter 11 of this title.
10-12-4: SETBACKS AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Off street loading areas shall not be located within fifty feet (50')
of any abutting property which is within an R district unless it is wholly
within an enclosed building or screened on all sides abutting the R district by
a screening wall or fence.
   B.   Unenclosed off street parking areas which are principal uses shall be
screened by the erection of a screening wall or fence on the lot line or lines
in common with an R district. Unenclosed off street parking areas, containing
six (6) or more spaces, which are accessory to uses not required to provide
screening shall be screened by the erection of a screening wall or fence on the
lot line or lines in common with an RE or RS district; provided, that if the
parking area is located more than fifty feet (50') from the RE or RS lot line
or lines, the screening requirement shall not apply.
   C.   Unenclosed off street parking and loading areas shall be set back from
abutting streets as set forth in table 1 of this section.
   Table 1
   OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING AREA SETBACKS
   FROM CENTERLINE OF ABUTTING STREETS1
 
                      Parking Area 1–5 Parking Area 6+ Spaces Loading Area
                      Spaces
In an R district                                               
Accessory to a        28 ft.             35 ft.                 n/a
dwelling
Accessory to another  40 ft.             50 ft.                 50 ft.
use
Not in an R district,
but within 50 ft. of  40 ft.             50 ft.                 50 ft.
an R district
 
   Note:
      1.   If the right of way width designated on the major street plan
exceeds 50 feet, add 1/2 of the amount by which the designated right of way
exceeds 50 feet.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-12-5: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF STREET PARKING AREAS:
   A.   Compliance With City Regulations: The design and dimensions of off
street parking areas shall be in accordance with the proper ordinance of the
city, per the code enforcement department. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   Wheel Guards: Off street parking spaces shall be clearly marked
according to the standard stall layout techniques. Parking spaces abutting an
adjoining property line or street right of way shall be provided with wheel
guards or bumper guards so located that no part of a normally parked vehicle
will extend beyond the property line. When wheel guards are used, they shall be
centered at least two and one-half feet (21/2') from the property line for
ninety degree (90°) parking, two and one-third feet (21/3') for sixty degree
(60°) parking, and two feet (2') for forty five degree (45°) parking.
   C.   Access And Location; Handicapped Parking:
      1.   Pedestrian access to buildings shall be provided from rights of way
and parking areas by means of a pathway leading to at least one public
entrance. Such pathway shall be cleared of all obstructions related to
construction activity prior to the opening of the building to the general
public. Where curb cuts exist along such pathway, as between a parking lot
surface and sidewalk surface, inclined curb approaches or curbcuts having a
gradient of not more than one foot (1') in twelve feet (12') and width of not
less than four feet (4') shall be provided for access by wheelchairs.
      2.   A parking lot servicing each entrance pathway shall have a number of
level parking spaces, as set forth in the following table, identified by above
grade signs as being reserved for physically handicapped persons; provided,
that a maximum of two (2) handicapped spaces shall be required for industrial
uses in industrial districts. Each parking space so reserved shall not be less
than twelve feet (12') in width. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
   PARKING SPACES FOR THE HANDICAPPED
                   Required Number Reserved Spaces
Total Spaces In Lot
                   Required Number Reserved Spaces
Total Spaces In Lot
Up  to 25           1
26  to 50           2
51  to 75           3
76  to 100          4
101 to 150          5
151 to 200          6
201 to 300          7
301 to 400          8
401 to 500          9
501 to 1,000        10
    Over 1,000 1% of total
 
      3.   Parking spaces for the physically handicapped shall be located as
close as possible to elevators, ramps, walkways and entrances. Parking spaces
for the physically handicapped shall be located so that such persons are not
compelled to wheel or to walk behind parked cars to reach entrances, ramps,
walkways, and elevators. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
10-12-6: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF STREET LOADING AREAS:
   A.   Off Street Loading Regulations: The intent of this section is to ensure
that an adequate off street loading area is provided with the construction,
alteration, or change of use of any business building or structure, or with any
change in land use.
      1.   The owner and the occupier of any property upon which a business is
located shall provide loading and unloading as determined by reference to the
appropriate use unit (1-26) 1  within which the proposed use is classified.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
      2.   Any person desiring a building permit for the construction,
alteration, or change of use of the land or any business building or structure
shall submit a site plan to the building inspector designating the number,
dimensions and locations of all loading areas and all proposed avenues of
ingress and egress to the property from adjacent public thoroughfares. The
building inspector shall not issue such permit if it is determined that the
proposed loading and unloading facilities will present a direct or indirect
hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   Minimum Required Design Criteria For Off Street Loading Spaces:
      1.   Unless otherwise specified, a required off street loading berth
shall be at least ten feet (10') in width, thirty feet (30') in length,
exclusive of aisles, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least fourteen
feet (14').
      2.   Required off street loading berths shall be provided access to and
from a public street or alley by an access drive of at least fifteen feet (15')
in width designed to permit convenient access to the berth by semitrailer
trucks.
      3.   Unenclosed off street loading areas shall be surfaced with a dust
free all weather material.
      4.   Lighting used to illuminate an off street loading area, if any,
shall be by constant light and shall be so arranged as to direct the light away
from properties within an R district which do not contain uses for which the
loading area is being provided. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 11 of this title.
10-12-7: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Any person establishing an off street parking facility or applying for a
building permit for construction, reconstruction, or alteration of the use of
any building, other than a single- family residence shall submit to the
planning staff a site plan for review as per subsections
10-8-7B and C of this title which are also applicable here. (Ord. 165, 12-6-
1983)
CHAPTER 13
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-13-1: General Statement
10-13-2: Unimproved Land
10-13-3: Buildings Or Buildings And Land In Combination
10-13-4: Signs
10-13-5: Lots
10-13-6: Structural Nonconformities
10-13-7: Repairs
10-13-1: GENERAL STATEMENT:
Within the districts established by this title or amendments that may later be
adopted, there exist uses, structures, and lots which were lawful before this
title was adopted or amended but which would be prohibited under the terms of
this title or future amendment to this title. These uses, structures, and lots,
herein referred to as "nonconformities", may continue as regulated by this
chapter. A use lawfully existing prior to the effective date of this title, or
amendment thereto, which does not comply with a parking, loading, screening,
bulk and area, accessory sign, or enclosure requirement or requirements, but
which is otherwise lawful, shall not constitute a nonconforming use within the
meaning of sections
10-13-2 and
10-13-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-13-2: UNIMPROVED LAND:
   A.   Termination: When at the effective date of this title or amendment
thereto a lawful use of land exists, which would not be permitted by the terms
of this title or amendment thereto, and the only structures employed in
connection with such use are all accessory or incidental to such use and in the
aggregate do not cover more than ten percent (10%) of the lot area devoted to
the nonconforming use, such shall be deemed a nonconforming use of unimproved
land and shall terminate as follows:
      1.   If the replacement costs of the accessory structures (other than
fences) is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the nonconforming use
shall terminate within five (5) years from the effective date of this title or
from the date the use became nonconforming, whichever is later.
      2.   If the replacement cost of the accessory structures (other than
fences) is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more, the nonconforming use
shall be terminated on the basis of amortization of the replacement cost of the
accessory structures at a rate of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year from
the effective date of this title or from the date the use became nonconforming,
whichever is later.
   B.   Conditions For Continuation: Pending termination, the nonconforming use
of land may be continued, provided:
      1.   No such nonconforming use shall be changed to another nonconforming
use, nor enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land
than was occupied at the effective date of this title or amendment thereof.
      2.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of this title or amendment thereof.
      3.   No additional structure (other than fences) shall be erected in
connection with such nonconforming use of land.
      4.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than ninety (90) days (except when government action impedes
access to or use of the premises), any subsequent use of such land shall
conform in all respects to the regulations of the district in which located.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-13-3: BUILDINGS OR BUILDINGS AND LAND IN COMBINATION:
When at the effective date of this title or amendment thereto, there exists a
lawful use of a building, or use of a principal building and land, or use of
land and accessory structures, such structures covering more than ten percent
(10%) of the lot area, and such use would not be permitted by the terms of this
title or amendment thereto, such use shall be deemed nonconforming and may
continue subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No building devoted to a nonconforming use shall be enlarged or
extended, except in changing the use of the building to a use permitted in the
district in which it is located.
   B.   A nonconforming use of a portion of a building may be extended to the
remaining portions of the building if such portions were manifestly arranged
and designed for such use, but such use shall not be extended to occupy any
land outside the building.
   C.   A nonconforming use of a building, or building and land in combination,
if superseded by a permitted use shall not thereafter be resumed.
   D.   A nonconforming use of a building or building and land in combination,
if discontinued for twelve (12) consecutive months or for twelve (12) months
during any eighteen (18) month period (except when governmental action impedes
access to or the use of the premises), shall not thereafter be resumed.
   E.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a building and land in
combination, termination of the use of the building within the meaning of
subsection D of this section shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the
use of the land.
   F.   A nonconforming use of a building or of a building and land in
combination when located within a residential district shall not be changed
unless changed to a use permitted in the district in which located. A
nonconforming use of a building or of a building and land in combination, when
located within a district other than a residential district, may, as a special
exception, be changed upon approval of the board of adjustment after finding
that the proposed use will not result in any increase of incompatibility with
the present and future use of proximate properties. The change of a use to
another use contained within the same use unit shall not constitute a "change
of use" within the meaning of this section.
   G.   Should the structure containing a nonconforming use be damaged or
partially destroyed to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) but less
than seventy five percent (75%) of its current replacement cost at the time of
damage, the restoration of the structure shall be subject to the board of
adjustment's findings, after adherence to the procedural requirements for a
special exception, that the contemplated restoration is necessary for the
continuance of the nonconforming use, and will not result in any increase of
incompatibility with the present and future use of proximate properties. Should
the structure containing a nonconforming use be damaged or destroyed to the
extent of more than seventy five percent (75%) of its replacement cost at the
time of damage, the nonconforming use shall not thereafter continue or be
resumed. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-13-4: SIGNS:
A sign lawfully existing at the effective date of the adoption or amendment of
this title, but which would be prohibited under the terms of this title or
amendment to the title, shall be deemed nonconforming, and may continue,
including normal maintenance and change of the face, if not rebuilt, enlarged,
extended, or relocated; provided, if the sign was erected within an AG district
after the effective date of this title and becomes nonconforming upon a
rezoning to an R or O district and is not accessory to an on site principal
use, the sign shall be removed within six (6) months from the effective date of
the rezoning; other nonconforming signs if located in an R district and not
accessory to an on site principal use, shall be removed within six (6) months
from the date the sign became nonconforming. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-13-5: LOTS:
   A.   Single Lots: In any district in which single-family dwellings are
permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
title, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be
erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this title. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of
continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall
apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or
both, that are generally applicable in the district, provided that yard
dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the
lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
   B.   Adjoining Lots: If two (2) or more adjoining lots with continuous
frontage are in a single ownership at any time after the adoption or amendment
of this title and such lots individually are too small to meet the yard, width
or area requirements of the district in which they are located, such groups of
lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted
size and the lots or lots in one ownership shall be subject to the requirements
of this title.
   C.   Permitted Uses: In districts other than residential districts, any use
permitted by right in the applicable district may be located on any lot of
official record at the effective date of this title, irrespective of its area
or width, provided the other requirements of the use district are complied
with. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-13-6: STRUCTURAL NONCONFORMITIES:
A structure, lawfully existing at the effective date of the adoption or
amendment of this title, but which would be prohibited by the terms of this
title by reason of restrictions on floor area, density, intensity, height,
yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the structure,
shall be deemed nonconforming and may continue, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   Increasing Nonconformity: No such nonconforming structure may be
enlarged or altered in any manner which increases its nonconformity, but any
structure may be altered to decrease its nonconformity, provided that the
addition of a mezzanine or similar alteration which does not increase the cubic
content of the structure shall not constitute an "increase in nonconformity".
   B.   Damaged Structure: Should such structure be damaged or partially
destroyed by any means to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its
current replacement cost at time of damage, the restoration as a nonconforming
structure shall be subject to the board of adjustment's findings, after
adherence to the procedural requirements for a special exception, that its
restoration to a conforming structure cannot reasonably be made in view of the
nature and extent of the nonconformity and the nature and extent of the
damages.
   C.   Moving Structure: Should such structure be moved for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the provisions of the district in
which located. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-13-7: REPAIRS:
   A.   Increase Size Or Nonconformity: On any building containing a
nonconforming use or any nonconforming structure, ordinary repairs and
maintenance may be made; provided, that the cubic content of the building is
not increased, and structural nonconformity is not increased.
   B.   Unsafe Or Unlawful Structure: If a nonconforming structure or a
structure containing a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful
due to lack of repairs and/or maintenance, and a final order of vacation or
demolition is entered by any duly authorized official by reason of physical
condition, it shall not thereafter be used, restored, repaired or rebuilt
except in conformity with the provisions of the district in which located.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
CHAPTER 14
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-14-1: General Statement
10-14-2: Policy On Zoning Map Amendments
10-14-3: Zoning Text Amendments
10-14-4: Zoning Map Amendments
10-14-1: GENERAL STATEMENT:
The regulations, restrictions, prohibitions, and limitations imposed and the
districts created by this title may, from time to time, be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by ordinance, but no change shall
be made until the planning commission, after notice and public hearing, files
with the city a report and recommendation on the proposed change. In addition
to the procedural provisions hereinafter set out, the planning commission shall
adopt procedural rules for the conduct of zoning public hearings. (Ord. 165,
12-6-1983)
10-14-2: POLICY ON ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS:
It shall be the policy of the city that in the consideration of proposed
amendments to this title that: Amendments will be adopted to recognize changes
in the comprehensive plan, to correct errors, or to recognize changed or
changing conditions in a particular area or in the jurisdictional area
generally. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-14-3: ZONING TEXT AMENDMENTS:
The planning commission, upon its own motion, may, or at the direction of the
board of commissioners shall, hold a public hearing, giving notice thereof, of
a proposed text amendment. After holding the public hearing, the planning
commission shall within forty (40) days transmit its report and recommendation
to the board of commissioners. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
10-14-4: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Application And Fees:
      1.   The planning commission, board of commissioners or any person,
corporation, partnership, association, or combination thereof, having a legal
or equitable interest in or to real property, may file an application for a
change in the zoning classification of such property by amendment of the zoning
map. An application shall be filed with the planning commission, shall be in
such form and content as the planning commission may by resolution establish,
and shall be accompanied by payment of a fee, as set forth in the following
table: (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
   ZONING MAP AMENDMENT FEES
 Zoning Classification Requested Base Fee Sliding Fee
   Zoning Classification Requested               Base Fee Sliding Fee
a. Low intensity (AG, RE, RS-1, RS-2, RS-3, RD):
   (1) 5.0 acres or less                         $ 90.00
   (2) For each additional acre increment and/or          $ 2.00
       fraction thereof
   (3) Maximum                                   300.00
b. Medium intensity (RMH, RM-T, RM-1, RM-2, OL,
   OM):
   (1) 5.0 acres or less                         100.00
   (2) For each additional acre increment and/or          5.00
       fraction thereof
   (3) Maximum                                   400.00
c. High intensity (CS, CG, CH, IL, IM, IH):
   (1) 5.0 acres or less                         200.00
   (2) For each additional acre increment and/or          10.00
       fraction thereof
   (3) Maximum                                   500.00
d. Multiple zoning classification1:
   (1) Highest of base fees2                     a(1), b(1), c(1) of this table
   (2) Plus per acre cost per category3          a(2), b(2), c(2) of this table
   (3) Maximum                                   $700.00
e. Planned unit development review:
   (1) 10.0 acres or less                        100.00
       For each additional acre or fraction
   (2) thereof over 10.0 up to and including              $5.00
       100.0
   (3) For each acre or fraction thereof over             1.00
       100.0
   (4) Maximum                                   400.00
f. Abandonment of planned unit development       35.00    n/a
g. Minor amendment to planned unit development:
   Bulk and area variances (5 percent or         25.00    n/a
   less)
   Bulk and area variances (over 5               50.00    n/a
   percent)
 
   Notes:
      1.   In addition to changing the highest base fee in a multiple zoning
application (note 2 of this table) the highest sliding fee shall be charged for
the total area included in a multiple zoning classification request, unless the
applicant calculates and records on the zoning application form the specific
number of acres for each zoning classification requested.
      2.   Only 1 base fee (a(1), b(1), c(1) of this table) shall be charged
for multiple zoning classification requests and it shall be the highest of the
base fees per type of zoning requested.
      3.   The applicant shall be charged, in addition to the highest of the
base fees, a sliding fee (a(2), b(2), c(2) of this table) for each acre of each
category requested, except the first 5 acres of the highest category which has
already been charged in the base fee.
(Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 257, 12-8-2008)
      2.   An application shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be set
for public hearing.
   B.   Notice Required: The planning commission shall give fifteen (15) days'
notice of a public hearing on a proposed map amendment by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation. In addition, twenty (20) days' notice of
public hearing shall be given by posting the property sought to be rezoned, and
by mailing notice to all owners of property within a three hundred foot (300')
radius of the exterior boundary of the property. The notice shall contain:
      1.   Date, time, and place of public hearing.
      2.   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location of the property.
      3.   Present zoning district classification of the property and the
proposed zoning district classification, provided: (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
         a.   Notice of a proposed RM-2 rezoning shall confer jurisdiction on
the planning commission and board of commissioners to consider and act upon RM-
T, RM-2, RM-1, RD, RS-3, RS-2, RS-1, and RE, or combinations thereof, in the
disposition of the application, and in like manner, notice of any R district,
including RMH, shall confer jurisdiction to consider any less dense R district,
except RMH. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983; amd. Ord. 257, 12-8-2008)
         b.   Notice of a proposed CH rezoning shall confer jurisdiction on the
planning commission and board of commissioners to consider and act upon CH, CG,
CS, OM, and OL or combination thereof in the disposition of the application,
and in like manner, notice of any C district shall confer jurisdiction to
consider any less intense C district or any O district, and notice of any O
district shall confer jurisdiction to consider any less intense O district.
         c.   Notice of a proposed IH rezoning shall confer jurisdiction on the
planning commission and board of commissioners to consider and act upon IH, IM,
IL, or combination thereof, in the disposition of the application, and in like
manner, notice of any I district shall confer jurisdiction to consider any less
intense I district.
         d.   Specific notice of a proposed AG or RMH district shall be
required to confer jurisdiction on the planning commission and board of
commissioners to consider such AG or RMH district.
   C.   Planning Commission Action On Zoning Map Amendments: After notice and
public hearing, the planning commission shall vote to:
      1.   Recommend to the board of commissioners that the application be
approved as submitted, or as amended, or be approved subject to modification;
or
      2.   Recommend to the board of commissioners that the application be
denied.
An application recommended for approval, or approval subject to modification,
or denial shall be transmitted, with the report and recommendations of the
planning commission to the board of commissioners within fifteen (15) days from
the date of planning commission action. In the event the planning commission
arrives at a tie vote, it shall be transmitted, with a report and notation of
the tie vote, to the board of commissioners within fifteen (15) days from the
date of planning commission action.
      3.   Prior to the submission to the board of commissioners, all data,
materials, recommendations and other pertinent information transmitted to the
board of commissioners from the action taken by the planning commission at a
public hearing shall be approved for accuracy by the chairman, or in his
absence, the secretary of the planning commission.
   D.   Board Of Commissioners' Action On Zoning Map Amendments: The board of
commissioners shall, after the public hearing, approve the application as
submitted, or as amended, approve the application subject to modification, or
deny the application. In case of a protest against such zoning change filed at
least three (3) days prior to the public hearing by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots included in such proposed change,
or by the owners of fifty percent (50%) or more of the area of the lots
immediately abutting any side of the territory included in such proposed
change, or separated therefrom only by an alley or street less than three
hundred feet (300') wide, such amendments shall not become effective except by
the favorable vote of three-fifths (3/5) of all the members of the city
commission. (Ord. 165, 12-6-1983)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Application Of Provisions
11-1-2: Approvals Necessary For Subdivision Plats
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any plat, hereafter made for each subdivision or each part thereof
lying within the city shall be prepared, presented for approval, and recorded
as herein prescribed.
   B.   The requirements contained herein shall apply to the subdivision of a
lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots or other divisions of
land for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development, whether immediate
or future, including all changes in street or lot lines; provided, however,
that divisions of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of tracts of ten
(10) acres or more, as permitted in the AG agriculture district, and not
involving any new street or nonpublic utility easement of access shall be
exempt from the requirements of this title. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-1-2: APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR SUBDIVISION PLATS:
Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall have been
reviewed by the planning commission and either approved or rejected and shall
have been approved by the city commission as having fulfilled the requirements
of this title and the zoning ordinance. Said approval of the city commission
must be clearly affixed on all pages of said plat along with the date thereof.
(Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows:
ALLEY: A minor way, dedicated to public use, which is used primarily for
vehicular access to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways,
streets, streams, railroad rights of way, or parks, etc., or a combination
thereof.
CITY: The city of Drumright.
COURT: A secondary designation following a street name, used only when street
alignment is such that a short street is created that does not warrant a new
street name.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently
terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
IMPROVEMENTS: Street pavements, with curbs and sidewalks, pedestrianways, water
mains, sanitary and storm sewers, permanent street monuments, trees and other
appropriate items.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership or for development.
MASTER PLAN: The comprehensive development plan made and adopted by the
planning commission indicating the general locations recommended for the major
thoroughfares, streets, parks, public buildings, zoning districts, and other
public improvements.
MONUMENT: A post made of iron pipe filled with concrete, the lower end of the
pipe being split and spread to form a base, and the upper end being fitted with
a brass end for identifying marks.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way, dedicated to public use, which cuts across a
block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
PLACE: A secondary designation following a street name, used only when street
alignment is such that a short street is created that does not warrant a new
street name.
SETBACK LINES OR BUILDING LINES: A line on a plat generally parallel to the
street right of way, indicating the limit beyond which buildings or structures
may not be erected.
STAFF: Any person or persons hired or retained by the planning commission as an
employee or consultant.
STREET: A right of way, dedicated to public use, or a private right of way
serving more than one ownership, which provides principal vehicular and
pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
STREET, ACCESS OR SERVICE: A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
major streets, traffic ways, highways or railroad rights of way and which
provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
STREET, COMMERCIAL COLLECTOR: A street which serves or is intended to serve as
a major traffic way and is designated as such on the traffic ways plan. It will
have controls on access and specific construction requirements.
STREET, DEAD END: A street, similar to a cul-de-sac, but providing no
turnaround at its closed end.
STREET, RESIDENTIAL: A street of limited length, which serves or is intended to
serve the local needs of a neighborhood.
STREET, RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR: A street which serves or is intended to serve as
a principal traffic way between separated areas or districts and which is the
main access to the primary street system.
SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm or corporation undertaking the subdividing or the
resubdividing of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, or
other divisions of land for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development, whether immediate or future, including all changes in street or
lot lines.
SUBDIVISION: A division of lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more
lots or other divisions of land for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development, whether immediate or future, including all changes in street or
lot lines; provided, however, that divisions of land for agricultural purposes
into parcels or tracts of ten (10) or more acres, as permitted in an AG
agriculture district, and not involving any new street or easement of access,
shall not be deemed a subdivision.
SUPERBLOCK: A block of exceptionally large size in both dimensions, with access
to interior lots by cul-de-sacs branching in from surrounding streets and
providing one or more open spaces. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Intent
11-2-2: Illustrations
11-2-3: Modifications
11-2-4: Amendment
11-2-5: Enforcement
11-2-6: Judicial Review
11-2-7: Vacation Of Plats
11-2-8: Approval Of Planning Commission
11-2-9: Fees
11-2-10: Violation; Penalties
11-2-1: INTENT:
The primary responsibility for the adoption, amendment, interpretation and
administration of this title shall be that of the planning commission. It is
the intent of the planning commission that the public interest be protected by
a thorough review of all proposed plats without undue delay to developers.
(Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-2-2: ILLUSTRATIONS:
Illustrations identified as figures in this title are intended to aid in
interpretation. In the event of conflict with the text, the text shall be
determinative. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-2-3: MODIFICATIONS:
Upon written request to the planning commission, modifications to the
procedures and requirements of this title may be granted by an affirmative vote
of not less than a three-fourths (3/4) majority of the full commission at a
regular meeting in the following instances:
   A.   Lot Splits: Any proposed lot split shall be submitted to the planning
commission for review, and if the planning commission is satisfied that such a
proposed lot split is not contrary to applicable regulations, it shall, within
thirty (30) days after submission, approve such lot split and, on presentation
of a conveyance of interest of said parcel, shall stamp "approved by the
planning commission, no plat required", and have it signed by the chairman or
other official as may be designated by it. In doing so, the planning commission
may require the submission of a sketch plat, record of survey and such other
information as it may deem pertinent to its determination hereunder. As of the
effective date of this title, no parcel of land may be granted more than one
lot split.
   B.   Undue Hardship: In any particular case where the developer can show by
plan and written statement that, by reason of exceptional topographic or other
physical conditions, literal compliance with any requirement of this title
would cause practical difficulty or exceptional and undue hardship, the
planning commission may modify such requirement to the extent deemed just and
proper, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided such relief may
be granted without detriment to the public interest and without impairing the
intent and purpose of this title or the desirable general development of the
neighborhood and the community in accordance with the comprehensive plan and
the zoning ordinance. Any modification thus granted shall be spread upon the
minutes of the planning commission, setting forth the reasons which, in the
opinion of the planning commission, justified the modification. (Ord. 130, 11-
1-1977)
11-2-4: AMENDMENT:
This title may be amended by the affirmative vote of a majority of the full
membership of the city commission at a public hearing, notice to the public of
which appeared at least fifteen (15) days prior thereto in a newspaper of
general circulation within the county.
   A.   Proposed Amendment; Costs: Amendments may be proposed in writing by the
planning commission or any interested party. Costs of public hearings and
publication of notice shall be deposited by any nongovernmental person
proposing an amendment.
   B.   Legal Approval: Prior to its consideration by the city commission, a
proposed amendment shall be approved as to legality by counsel for the city
commission. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-2-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The responsibility of enforcing this title is as follows:
   A.   City: The code enforcement officer of the city is designated enforcing
official and shall make the inspections and investigations necessary for the
enforcement of this title within the city limits.
   B.   County: The code enforcement officer is designated enforcing official
and shall make the inspections and investigations within the unincorporated
area of the county not included within the jurisdiction of the city.
   C.   Complaints: Upon receipt of a written, signed complaint upon forms
provided by the planning commission or by the appropriate enforcing official,
said official shall investigate the complaint and notify the complainant within
thirty (30) days of the action taken or decision thereon. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977;
amd. 2002 Code)
11-2-6: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
A judicial review in the district court may be had of any ruling, provision,
interpretation, order, requirements, refusal, permit, approval or decision made
under the terms of this title. The basis for such review is that action of the
planning commission or enforcing official is arbitrary, capricious, or
unreasonable and unnecessary. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-2-7: VACATION OF PLATS:
No vacation of a plat or any parts thereof, except by action of the district
courts, shall be valid or impart notice until after the consent of all of the
owners of such platted area is presented to the commission and the approval of
the commission is entered thereon. All partial vacations or alterations of a
final approved, filed plat shall require the approval of the commission and the
filing of a corrected plat. Alteration of a plat as finally approved by the
commission, without approval, shall constitute a violation of this title. (Ord.
130, 11-1-1977)
11-2-8: APPROVAL OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
The approval of the planning commission, by majority vote of the full
commission, or the refusal to approve, shall take place within forty five (45)
days from and after the submission of the plat for final approval, unless the
developer agrees in writing to an extension of this time period; otherwise,
said plat shall be deemed to have been approved and the certificate of said
planning commission as to the date of the submission of the plat for approval
and as to the failure to take action thereon within such time shall be
sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement or evidence of approval herein
required. The grounds for refusal of any plat submitted or regulations violated
by the plat shall be stated upon the record of the planning commission. (Ord.
130, 11-1-1977)
11-2-9: FEES:
Fees connected with the administration and enforcement of this title shall be
as follows:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: For each preliminary or tentative plat, the
commission shall collect a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) or a fee of fifty cents
($0.50) per lot plus five dollars ($5.00), whichever is largest.
   B.   Final Plat: For each final plat, the commission shall collect a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00) or a fee of fifty cents ($0.50) per lot plus five dollars
($5.00), whichever is largest.
   C.   Lot Split: For each lot split, the commission shall collect a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00).
   D.   Public Hearing: For each request for public hearing before the
commission on a subdivision matter, the commission shall collect a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00), except that no fee shall be required of
municipalities.
   E.   Inspection Fee: The city commission and the county commission may
establish fees for inspections and investigations of subdivisions. (Ord. 130,
11-1-1977)
11-2-10: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Compliance Required: No zoning, building or electrical permit shall be
issued for any new structure or change, improvement or alteration of any
existing structure or any tract of land which does not comply with the
provisions of this title.
   B.   Penalties: A violation of this title or failure to comply with the
provisions herein specified shall subject the person, firm, or corporation to
the following penalties: (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
      1.   Misdemeanor: Violations shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in which a violation continues, prior to
instigation of appeal, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 130, 11-1-
1977; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Civil Action: The city commission or the county commission, or any
person whose value of property is affected by a violation, may institute a
civil suit to prevent or remove a violation of this title.
      3.   Invalidity Of Transfers: All instruments of transfers of interest in
property in violation of this title are invalid and do not impart notice when
filed.
      4.   Withdrawal Of Approval: The planning commission may, upon
application of the staff, an enforcing official, or any person whose property
value is adversely affected, withdraw their approval of a plat when a violation
of this title is found to exist, after public hearing and due notice to the
affected persons. In such event, the commission shall file notice of the
withdrawal of approval in the office of the county clerk in a manner which will
be reflected in the land title of the property in violation thereof. (Ord. 130,
11-1-1977)
CHAPTER 3
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Blocks
11-3-2: Streets And Alleys
11-3-3: Lots
11-3-4: Easements
11-3-5: Dedications For Public Sites And Open Spaces
11-3-6: Improvements
11-3-7: Permanent Markers And Monuments
11-3-1: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length: In general, intersecting streets determining block lengths
shall be provided at such intervals as to serve cross traffic adequately and to
meet existing streets or customary subdivision practices in the neighborhood.
Where no existing plats control, the blocks in residential districts shall
normally not exceed one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') in length,
except that in outlining subdivisions a greater length may be permitted where
topography or other conditions justify a departure from this maximum. In blocks
longer than eight hundred feet (800'), pedestrianways and/or easements shall
have a minimum width of ten feet (10'). Blocks for business use should normally
not exceed six hundred feet (600') in length.
   B.   Width: The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to allow two
(2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of such width as may be considered most suitable for
their prospective use, including adequate space for off street parking and
deliveries. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-3-2: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Major Streets: Arrangement of major streets in the subdivision shall
conform as nearly as possible to the comprehensive plan adopted by the planning
commission, and provision shall be made for the extension of major and
secondary thoroughfares. Except for courts and cul-de-sacs, streets normally
shall connect with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent
subdivisions, or provide for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided
tracts, or shall be a reasonable projection of streets in the nearest
subdivided tracts.
   B.   Minor Streets: Minor streets should be so planned as to discourage
their use by nonlocal traffic. Dead end streets are prohibited, but places,
courts or cul-de-sacs will be permitted where topography or other conditions
justify their use. Cul-de- sacs shall normally not be longer than five hundred
feet (500'), including a turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end,
with an outside curb radius of at least forty feet (40') and right of way
radius of not less than fifty feet (50').
   C.   Tentative Plan For Future System: Where the plat to be submitted
includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by the
subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the
unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider.
   D.   Large Lots Or Parcels: When a tract is subdivided into larger than
normal building lots or parcels, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as
to permit the logical location and opening of future streets and appropriate
resubdivisions, with provision for adequate utility connections for such
resubdivision.
   E.   Intersections: Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as
to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or
other conditions justify variations. The minimum angle of intersection of the
streets generally shall be sixty degrees (60°).
   F.   Railroad Or Freeway: Wherever the proposed subdivision contains or is
adjacent to a railroad right of way or the right of way of a limited access
freeway, expressway or major thoroughfare, provision should be made for a
marginal access street approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of
such rights of way, or for a street at a distance suitable for the appropriate
use of land between such street and the right of way. Such distance shall be
determined with the consideration of the minimum distance required for approach
connections to future grade separations, or for lot depths.
   G.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial
districts, except that this requirement may be waived where other definite and
assured provision is made for service access, such as off street loading,
unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
Except where justified by special conditions, such as the continuation of an
existing alley in the same block, alleys will be discouraged in residential
districts. Alleys, where provided, shall not be less than twenty feet (20')
wide. Intersecting alleys shall have corner cutoffs of at least twenty feet
(20') on a side, dead end alleys shall be avoided wherever possible, but if
unavoidable, such dead end alleys may be approved if adequate turnaround
facilities are provided at the closed end.
   H.   Half Streets: Dedication of half streets will not be approved, except:
1) where it is essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and
in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations; 2) where it is
found that it will be practical to require the dedication of the other half
when the adjoining property is subdivided; or 3) where it becomes necessary to
acquire the remaining half by condemnation so it may be improved in the public
interest.
   I.   Right Of Way Widths: For all public ways hereafter dedicated and
accepted, the minimum right of way widths for streets, alleys, or
pedestrianways included in any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum
dimension for each classification as follows:
Collector Streets:            
 Commercial                 100 feet
 Residential                60 feet
Minor Streets:                
 Single-family dwelling use 60 feet
Cul-De-Sacs                  60 feet
Access Streets:               
 2-way                      60 feet
 1-way                      60 feet
Alleys                       20 feet
Pedestrianways:               
 Where existing or anticipated traffic on primary and secondary thoroughfares
  warrants greater widths of rights of way, these shall be required.
Drainage Easement:
  A drainage easement, in addition to the provided right of way width, may be
  required where streets parallel streams or drainage areas. The width of such
 drainage easements shall be determined by the city engineer, said city
  engineer shall notify the developer and the city planning commission, in
  writing, of his determination,
 
   J.   Pavement Widths: Minimum pavement widths for all streets, measured from
the face of curb to face of curb, and for all alleys and walks included in any
subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimension for each
classification, as follows:
Collector Streets:        
 Commercial             62 feet
 Residential            44 feet
Minor Streets            34 feet
Cul-De-Sacs              34 feet
Marginal Access Streets:  
 2-way                  34 feet
 1-way                  34 feet
Alleys                   20 feet
Sidewalks                4 feet
 
   K.   Street Grades: The grades in all streets, alleys, and pedestrianways,
or pedestrianways included in any subdivision, shall not be greater than the
maximum grades for each classification as follows, except where topographical
conditions unquestionably justify a departure from this maximum:
 
Collector Streets:  
 Commercial       5 percent
 Residential      7 percent
Minor Streets      10 percent
Cul-De-Sacs        10 percent
Alleys             10 percent
Pedestrianways     12 percent
 
   L.   Street Alignment: The horizontal and vertical alignment on all streets,
except in unusual cases, shall be as follows:
Horizontal - Radii Of Centerline:
 Collector Streets:
  Commercial                      500 feet minimum
  Residential                     300 feet minimum
 Minor Streets                    100 feet minimum
  There shall be a tangent between all reversed curves of a length in relation
  to the radii of the curves so as to provide for a smooth flow of traffic.
Vertical:
 All changes in street grade shall be connected by vertical curves of such
 length as to provide for the minimum sight distances required. The minimum
 sight distances required are as follows:
 Collector Streets:
  Commercial                      500 feet
  Residential                     300 feet
 Minor Streets                    100 feet
 
   M.   Curb Radii: Where two (2) minor streets intersect at approximately
right angles, so that the smallest angle of intersection is not less than
eighty degrees (80°), the curb at each block corner shall be rounded with a
radius of not less than fifteen feet (15'). At all other intersections or where
minor streets intersect at an angle of less than eighty degrees (80°), or where
a minor street intersects with a major or secondary thoroughfare, or where two
(2) or more secondary or major thoroughfares meet, cross or otherwise intersect
in any combination, the curb radii at such intersections shall be subject to
the approval of the city. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-3-3: LOTS:
   A.   Size: The minimum width of a lot for residential development shall be
as provided in table 3, subsection
10-6-4A of this code. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Individual Sewage Disposal: In subdivisions where septic tanks or other
individual sewage disposal devices are to be installed, the size of all lots
included in such subdivision shall be subject to the approval of the county
health department. The approval of the health department shall be based upon
the Oklahoma state board of health requirements. The county health department
shall notify the developer and the city planning commission in writing of its
finding.
   C.   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets.
   D.   Side Lines: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles
to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   E.   Double Frontage: Double frontage lots shall be avoided.
   F.   Abut On Street: Every lot shall abut on a street other than an alley.
   G.   Setback: Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots intended
for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by the
zoning ordinance. On those lots which are intended for business use, the
setback shall be at least that required by the zoning ordinance, unless special
plans for the location of buildings and parking areas are approved by the city
planning commission, and also approved by the city commission at the time of
approval of the plat. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-3-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Width: To facilitate underground installation, an easement for
utilities, at least ten feet (10') wide, shall be provided along each side of a
side line of lots and/or the rear line of lots where necessary to form a
continuous right of way, at least twenty feet (20') in width. If necessary for
the extension of main water or sewer lines or similar utilities, easements of
greater width may be required along lot lines or across lots.
   B.   Connect With Adjoining Easements: Utility easements shall connect with
easements established in adjoining properties. These easements, when approved,
shall not thereafter be changed without the approval of the city commission at
the time of approval and recommendation of city planning commission.
   C.   Pole Guys: Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the
outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the
exterior angle so that pole guys will fall along the side lot lines.
   D.   Drainage: Drainage easements for storm sewers may be required.
Easements for open channel drainage may be required where the cost for the
installation of storm sewers is considered to be prohibitive. These easements
may be along the side lot lines, but usually the design should be such that the
drainage will be carried along the rear of the lots. If open channel drainage
is to be carried in the street right of way, additional right of way width
shall be provided. When the drainage is carried down the rear lot lines, the
easement shall be of adequate width for workmen (with trucks if need be) to
enter the easement and keep it cleaned out. The size and location of such
easements for open channel drainage shall be determined by the city. (Ord. 130,
11-1-1977)
11-3-5: DEDICATIONS FOR PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Recreation Area Or Open Space: In subdividing land or resubdividing an
existing plat, due consideration shall be given by the subdivider to the
dedication or reservation of suitable sites for schools, parks, playgrounds, or
other public recreational areas or open spaces. Residential subdivisions shall
dedicate a usable tract of land, as common recreation area or open space,
according to the following schedule:
 
10 - 20 acres    21/2 percent of total area
20 or more acres 5 percent of total area
 
   B.   Compliance With Comprehensive Plan: Any areas so dedicated or reserved
shall conform as nearly as possible to the recommendations of the city planning
commission in its comprehensive plan of the city. All areas to be reserved for
or dedicated to public use shall be indicated on the preliminary plat in order
that it may be determined when and in what manner such areas will be dedicated
to or acquired by the appropriate agency. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-3-6: IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements, when constructed by the owner or developer shall comply with
the rules and specifications of the city, and the requirements set forth in
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-3-7: PERMANENT MARKERS AND MONUMENTS:
   A.   Blocks: Permanent markers shall be placed at each corner of every block
or portion of a block, points of curvature and points of tangency on street
lines, and at each angle point on the boundary of the subdivision. A permanent
marker shall be deemed to be a steel rod or pipe, one-half inch (1/2") or
larger in diameter extending at least three feet (3') below the finished grade.
In situations where conditions prohibit the placing of markers in the locations
prescribed above, offset markers will be permitted. The exact location of all
markers shall be shown on the final plat, together, with accurate interior
angles, bearings and distances.
   B.   Quarter Section Points: Permanent monuments shall be placed at all
quarter section points within the subdivision or on its perimeter. These
monuments shall be set according to the specifications of the city for such
work. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
CHAPTER 4
PLATS; SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
11-4-1: Preapplication Plans And Data
11-4-2: Preliminary Plat
11-4-3: Final Plat
11-4-1: PREAPPLICATION PLANS AND DATA:
Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a preliminary plat, the
subdivider shall submit to the office of the planning commission plans and data
showing his ideas and intentions in the platting of the proposed subdivision.
   A.   Existing Conditions: He shall outline and describe the existing
conditions of the site and the proposed development to supplement the drawings
and sketches required in subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Location Map: A general location map shall be prepared and submitted
and shall show the proposed subdivision and its relationship to existing
community facilities. Such location map shall show the location and name of the
subdivision, existing main traffic arteries, public transportation lines,
schools, parks and playgrounds.
   C.   Sketch Plan: A sketch plan, drawn to scale, shall be prepared and
submitted showing the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in
relation to existing utilities and other conditions. This plan may be submitted
in the form of a freehand pencil sketch.
   D.   Planning Commission Approval: Within thirty (30) days of the submission
of the preapplication plan, the subdivider shall be informed by the planning
commission whether such plans and the data submitted meet the objectives of
these regulations. If the planning commission finds the plans and data do not
meet the objectives of these regulations, it shall express its reasons
therefor. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-4-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
After reaching preliminary conclusions regarding the proposed subdivision as
provided in section
11-4-1 of this chapter, the subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary
plat, together with any necessary supplementary information.
   A.   Copies Filed: Six (6) copies of a preliminary plat and one copy of a
vicinity sketch of any proposed subdivision shall be filed with the city clerk
at least fifteen (15) days prior to a meeting of the commission at which
consideration is requested.
   B.   Contents: The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name: Proposed name of subdivision. Names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing subdivisions.
      2.   Boundary Lines: Location of boundary lines in relation to section,
quarter section or quarter quarter section lines and any adjacent corporate
boundaries, comprising a legal description of the property.
      3.   Developer And Surveyor: Names and addresses of the developer and the
surveyor making the plat.
      4.   Scale: Scale of plat, one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200')
or larger.
      5.   Date, North Point: Date and north point.
      6.   Existing Conditions:
         a.   Location, width and name of each existing or platted street or
other public way, railroad and utility right of way, parks and other public
open spaces, and permanent buildings, within or adjacent to the proposed
subdivision.
         b.   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts, or other
underground installations within the proposed subdivision or immediately
adjacent thereto, with pipe size, grades and locations shown.
         c.   Names of adjacent subdivision and owner or adjacent parcels of
unsubdivided land.
         d.   Topography (unless specifically waived) with contour intervals of
not more than five feet (5'), referred to city datum; also the locations of
watercourses, ravines, bridges, lakes, wooded areas, approximate acreage, and
such other features as may be pertinent to subdivision.
      7.   Proposed Development:
         a.   The location and width of proposed streets, roadways, alleys,
pedestrianways and easements.
         b.   The location and character of all proposed public utility lines,
including sewers, (storm and sanitary) water, gas and power lines. If a
community sewage treatment plant, or other type of community disposal system is
to be installed or constructed to serve all or certain portions of the proposed
subdivision, the general plan for such community type sewage treatment or
disposal system shall be shown and so identified on the preliminary plan.
         c.   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots and the number
or letter of each block.
         d.   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches, or
school sites or other special uses of land to be considered for dedication to
public use, or to be reserved by deed of covenant for the use of all property
owners in the subdivision and any conditions of such dedication or reservation.
         e.   Building setback lines with dimensions.
         f.   Indication of any lots on which use other than residential is
proposed by the subdivider.
      8.   Supplementary Requirements:
         a.   Two (2) copies of profiles shall be furnished for each proposed
street, showing existing grades and proposed approximate grades and gradients
on the centerline and along the property lines of the street. The location of
proposed culverts and bridges shall also be shown.
         b.   Vicinity sketch, at a legible scale, to show the relation of the
plat to its surroundings, shall be shown on the preliminary plat, or accompany
it. Utility connections too remote to be shown on the preliminary plat shall be
shown on this sketch.
      9.   Approval Or Disapproval: Approval or disapproval of the preliminary
plat will be conveyed to the subdivider in writing within five (5) days after
the meeting of the planning commission at which such plat was considered. In
case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of the reasons
for such action and what requirements will be necessary to meet the approval of
the commission. The approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute an
acceptance of the subdivision, but is deemed to be an authorization to proceed
with the preparation of the final plat, this approval of the preliminary plat
shall only be effective for a period of one year, unless an extension is
granted by the planning commission. If the final plat has not been submitted
for approval within this period, a preliminary plat must again be submitted to
the commission for approval. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-4-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submission: After approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
shall prepare and submit to the commission a final plat for recording purposes,
together with other supplementary information and certificates. Said final plat
shall be submitted to the secretary of the commission at least fifteen (15)
days prior to a regular meeting of the commission.
   B.   Copies: Seven (7) copies of such final plat shall be furnished which
shall bear the original signatures of the owner or owners and be duly
acknowledged.
   C.   Form: The final plat prepared for recording purposes shall be drawn at
a scale of at least one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). The size of
sheets on which such final plats are submitted shall be at least sixteen and
one-fourth inches by nineteen inches (161/4" x 19"). Each sheet shall have a
one and one-fourth inch (11/4") binding edge along the nineteen inch (19")
dimension and a one-fourth inch (1/4") border along all other sides. Where the
proposed plat is of unusual size, the final plat shall be submitted on two (2)
or more sheets of the same dimensions. If more than two (2) sheets are
required, an index sheet of the same dimensions shall be filed, showing the
entire development at a smaller scale.
   D.   Information: The final plat shall show and contain the following
information:
      1.   Name of subdivision (not to duplicate or too closely approximate the
name of any existing subdivision).
      2.   Location by section, township, range, county and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
The allowable error of closure on any portion of a final plat shall be one foot
(1') in five thousand feet (5,000').
      3.   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the final
plat. Locations of such monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments or the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to such reference points or monuments.
      4.   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and other
features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground. Dimensions shall be shown from
all angle points and points of curve to lot lines.
      5.   Lots shall be numbered clearly. If blocks are to be numbered or
lettered, these should be shown clearly in the center of the block.
      6.   The exact locations, widths, and names of all streets to be
dedicated.
      7.   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated.
      8.   Boundary lines and description of boundary lines of any areas other
than streets and alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use.
      9.   Building setback lines on front and side streets with dimensions.
      10.   Name and address of developer making the plat.
      11.   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date and north point.
      12.   Statement dedicating all easements.
      13.   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys, and other public areas
not previously dedicated.
   E.   Certifications Required On Final Plats:
      1.   Certificate by parties holding title A certificate signed and
acknowledged by all parties having any title interest in the land subdivided,
consenting to the preparation and recordation of the plat as submitted. All
copies shall carry the original signatures of the owner or owners and notary
public.
      2.   Certification by registered engineer that details of the plat are
correct.
      3.   Space for certificates of approval to be filled in by the signatures
of the chairman and secretary of the city planning commission and the city
clerk or deputy city clerk.
   F.   Supplementary Documents And Information To Accompany Final Plat:
      1.   A certificate from the city approving annexation of the subdivided
area.
      2.   Tax certificates from both the city and county shall be submitted
stating that all taxes and encumbrances have been satisfied of record on the
land to be dedicated as streets or alleys or for other public purposes.
      3.   Two (2) copies of any private restrictions affecting the subdivision
or any part thereof.
   G.   Submission To City Commission:
      1.   After review of the final plat by the city planning commission, such
plat, together with the recommendation of the commission shall be submitted to
the city commission for approval. If accepted, the final plat shall be approved
by ordinance, which ordinance shall provide for the acceptance of all streets,
alleys, easements or other public ways, and parks or other open spaces
dedicated to public purposes.
      2.   If the commission rejects or withholds approval of plat, the
subdivider may request that said plat be submitted to the city commission. The
secretary of the city planning commission shall forward the proposed plat,
together with the report of the commission, stating the reason or reasons for
the action taken. The city commission may make such findings and determinations
as are deemed proper. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Standards
11-5-2: Installation
11-5-3: Maintenance Bonds
11-5-4: Streets And Utilities
11-5-5: Underground Utilities
11-5-6: Public Water Supply
11-5-7: Public Sewage Disposal
11-5-8: City Connections
11-5-9: Storm Drainage
11-5-10: Oil Or Gas Well
11-5-11: Fire Hydrants
11-5-12: Plantings, Street Lighting, Street Name Signs
11-5-13: Monuments And Stakes
11-5-14: Construction Plans
11-5-15: Completion Of Construction
11-5-1: STANDARDS:
All subdivisions shall install improvements in accordance with or in excess of
the minimum requirements of this title and the duly adopted regulations of the
city commission pertaining to the construction, surfacing and maintenance of
traffic ways, streets, roads, and highways. The developer shall acknowledge the
several improvement requirements as set forth herein by notation on the final
plat. Said notation shall be worded substantially as follows:
All streets shall be graded, and improved, in accordance with the standards and
specifications required by the subdivision regulations of the city of Drumright
pertaining to, and including, curbs and gutters, street name signs erected,
planting screens established and trees planted, utilities and street lights
installed. Sidewalks constructed, drainage structures constructed in accordance
with the approved plans on file in the office of the enforcing official, by the
developer at his expense. All required improvements shall be constructed or
installed within two (2) years of approval of the final plat by the planning
commission and the same shall be maintained and kept in good repair by the
subdivider for a period of five (5) years after construction thereon has been
approved in writing by the enforcing official.
(Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-2: INSTALLATION:
Improvements required under this title shall not be constructed prior to the
final plat approval and filing of the plat in accordance with the
specifications and under the supervision of the official having jurisdiction.
Bond shall be provided to guarantee the performance and maintenance thereof
prior to final approval of the plat. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-3: MAINTENANCE BONDS:
Said bonds shall:
   A.   Bond For Benefit: Be in favor of the city.
   B.   Amount: Be in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost, as estimated by a bona fide contractor approved by the city commission
and approved by the enforcing official, of all improvements and installations
as required by these standards and reasonable maintenance thereof; excluding,
however, the cost of any said required improvements and installations which
have been constructed, installed, and completed by utility companies or the
city for which separate completion contracts are furnished.
   C.   Surety: Provide surety satisfactory to the city commission and the
city.
   D.   Term: Performance bonds shall be in force until and terminate ninety
(90) days after the filing with the city commission of a completion affidavit
obtained from the enforcing official, unless within said ninety (90) day
period, the enforcing official determines that the requirements, standards, and
specifications of these standards applicable to the construction, installation
and completion of said improvements, and installations have not been met and
notified the applicant of such determination by certified/registered mail sent
to the applicant's address appearing on the application for plat or lot split
approval; in which event said bond shall continue to run until the filing of
proof that, and the enforcing official's determination of said standards,
requirements, and specifications have been met. Maintenance bonds shall run for
a period of five (5) years from the date of release of performance bond. (Ord.
130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-4: STREETS AND UTILITIES:
   A.   Utility And Street Improvements: Utility and street improvements shall
be provided in each new subdivision in accordance with the standards and
requirements prescribed by the enforcing official.
   B.   Access To Street: Every lot within a subdivision shall have access to a
public street. Private streets, as permitted in planned unit or mobile home
subdivisions, must comply with the improvements requirements of applicable
public streets.
   C.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips, when described and provided or
designated on the plat, shall be maintained in a manner prescribed in the plat
restriction.
   D.   Commercial And Industrial Access: Commercial and industrial
developments shall have access to arterial or collector streets. Vehicular
access shall be prohibited to minor residential and residential collector
streets. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-5: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
Wherever possible, electric and telephone lines shall be installed underground
in the easements provided. After installation of such lines, "as installed"
diagrams shall be furnished by the installer to the city, drawn to scale and
indicating the location of the lines. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-6: PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY:
Where an approved public water supply is reasonably accessible, or procurable,
the subdivider shall connect with such water supply and make it available for
each lot within the subdivided area. Pending the availability of a public water
supply, the subdivider shall construct wells or a water supply system in such a
manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to every lot
within the subdivision. The final plat shall not receive planning commission
approval until it is certified by the county health department that there has
been compliance with the regulations of the Oklahoma state board of health and
where indicated, meets other jurisdictional governing bodies requirements.
(Ord. 130, 11-1-1977; amd. 2002 Code)
11-5-7: PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, the subdivider shall
connect with such sanitary sewer and provide adequate sewer lines to each lot.
Sewer connections and the subdivision sewer system shall comply with this title
and with the regulations of the Oklahoma state board of health. Where a
sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible, but where plans for the
installation of sanitary sewers in the vicinity of the subdivision have been
prepared and approved by the appropriate agency, the subdivider shall install
sewers in conformity with such plans. Where immediate connection is not
possible, and until such connection is made with the sewer system of the
district, the use of a private sewage treatment plant may be permitted;
provided, such disposal facilities are constructed in accordance with the
regulations and requirements of the governing bodies and the Oklahoma state
board of health. Where no sewers are accessible and no plans for the same have
been prepared, the subdivider shall either install a sewer line and disposal
system in accordance with the above requirements or if the subdivided lots have
a minimum width of one hundred feet (100') with no lot less than twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet where individual water supply systems are used,
and fourteen thousand (14,000) square feet if community water supply system is
used, individual sewage disposal devices may be provided for each lot. The
planning commission, with the concurring approval of the county health
department, may adjust these lot requirements in accordance with their findings
in the particular subdivision. All such individual systems shall be constructed
in accordance with the regulations and requirements of the county health
department and the state board of health. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977; amd. 2002 Code)
11-5-8: CITY CONNECTIONS:
In all cases where the water supply or sewage disposal systems will be
connected to lines or mains owned or operated by the city or town, construction
as to said facilities shall be made according to the plans, specifications and
requirements and subject to the inspection, supervision and approval of the
governing bodies, water and sewer department or the state health department.
Approval of the plans for any such water or sewer system by the above shall
satisfy the requirements of this title with respect to water and sewer
facilities. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-9: STORM DRAINAGE:
Provisions shall be made for the disposal of all storm water. Where initial
construction does not provide for storm sewers, drainage ditches of adequate
capacity shall be constructed. Facilities for storm drainage should be of
adequate capacity to take care of surface runoff originating within the
subdivision or flowing across it. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-10: OIL OR GAS WELL:
   A.   Building Setback: Where there is found to be a producing oil or gas
well which is in, or within one hundred fifty feet (150') of, the boundaries of
the proposed subdivision, or an abandoned oil or gas well which is not
adequately plugged according to the standards established by state law and the
Oklahoma corporation commission and so certified by said corporation commission
and which is outside the boundaries of a proposed subdivision, but within one
hundred fifty feet (150') thereof, there shall be a building setback line so
placed on the plat so as to prevent the erection of buildings within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of such wells.
   B.   Plugging Abandoned Well: Where there is found to be an abandoned oil or
gas well which is not adequately plugged according to the standards established
by the state law and the Oklahoma corporation commission, which well is within
the boundaries of a proposed subdivision, said well shall be adequately plugged
according to said standards and so certified by the Oklahoma corporation
commission before the plat of such addition is given final approval. In any
event, a certificate or clearance shall be obtained from the Oklahoma
corporation commission as to the existence of any wells reflected in their
records. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-11: FIRE HYDRANTS:
Fire hydrants complying with the specifications of the respective city or
national board of fire underwriters shall be installed. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-12: PLANTINGS, STREET LIGHTING, STREET NAME SIGNS:
   A.   Planting: All landscaped strips, parkways and screening areas dedicated
to the public or reserved in private common ownership shall be graded, seeded
and planted in an appropriate manner and the means of maintaining such private
areas shall be established in the plat covenants. Street trees shall be planted
by the developer throughout the entire subdivision. Such trees shall not be
planted in the public right of way. They shall be planted on both sides of the
street, appropriately spaced according to their kind, and shall not be less
than two inches (2") in diameter.
   B.   Lighting: Provisions shall be made by the developer for adequate
lighting of public streets within the proposed subdivision, in accordance with
standards and specifications of the city.
   C.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in accordance
with the specifications of the city. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-13: MONUMENTS AND STAKES:
Permanent and other monuments shall be placed in accordance with the following
requirements and under the supervision of the city:
   A.   Street Points: Monuments shall be set at the intersection of all
streets and the beginning and end of all curves along street centerlines.
   B.   Specifications: The monuments shall be made of one inch (1") ID
galvanized iron pipe thirty inches (30") long.
   C.   Lot Corner Stakes: A metal reinforcing steel stake the size of three-
eighth inches (3/8") in diameter and twenty four inches (24") long shall be set
at all lot corners; top to be set not more than two inches (2") aboveground
with registered engineer's tags set on all stakes at beginning and end of all
curves. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-14: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
Construction plans for improvements to be installed shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer and submitted in accordance with the
requirements and specifications of the officials having jurisdiction, and no
improvements shall be installed until and unless said plans shall have been
received and approved by the said officials:
   A.   Street Profile: The centerline and property line profile of each
proposed street, with existing and tentative grades indicated.
   B.   Cross Section: The cross section of each proposed street, showing the
width of pavement, the location and width of sidewalks if constructed.
   C.   Sewer Profile: The plans and profiles of proposed sanitary sewers and
storm sewers with grades and sizes indicated, or method of sewage or storm
water disposal in lieu of sewers.
   D.   Water System: A plan of the proposed water distribution system, showing
pipe sizes and the location of valves and fire hydrants.
   E.   Drainage: A drainage plan showing all existing and proposed storm
sewers, manholes, catch basins, watercourses, culverts, and other underground
structures within the tract, immediately adjacent thereto, with pipe sizes and
grades, water openings indicated thereon. The drainage plan shall show the
method to be used for the adequate disposal of all storm water, including
drainage outlets. (Ord. 130, 11-1-1977)
11-5-15: COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION:
The construction of all improvements required by these rules and regulations
shall be completed within two (2) years from the date of approval of the final
plat by the planning commission, unless good cause can be shown for the
granting of an extension of time by authority of the planning commission. (Ord.
130, 11-1-1977)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-5: Definitions
12-1-6: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
12-1-7: Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-1-8: Establishment Of Development Permit
12-1-9: Compliance
12-1-10: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-1-11: Interpretation
12-1-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-13: Floodplain Administrator
12-1-14: Permit Procedures
12-1-15: Variance Procedures
12-1-16: General Standards
12-1-17: Specific Standards
12-1-18: Subdivision Standards
12-1-19: Floodways
12-1-20: Penalty
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Oklahoma has in 82 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1601 through 1618, as amended, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt ordinances designed to minimize flood losses. (Ord.
262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Drumright are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, presents health and
safety hazards, disrupts commerce and governmental services, and requires
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of accessory structures include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within Creek County or
Payne County, or both, subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of
flooding in any given year.
BFE: Base flood elevation.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or one percent (1%) chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CFR: Code of federal regulations.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the city of Drumright floodplain
administrator which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in
accordance with this chapter.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building built, in the case of a building in
zones AE, A, and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones AE, A, and X,
"elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the city of Drumright.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: The federal emergency management agency.
FIRM: Flood insurance rate map.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: An official map of Creek County or Payne County on
which FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk
premium zones applicable to the city of Drumright.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by FEMA for Creek County or
Payne County which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the city of Drumright subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by the
city commission of the city of Drumright to administer and implement laws,
ordinances and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A floodway is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in section
12-1-7 of this chapter. A floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior,
or
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of title 44 CFR.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the North
American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on Creek County's flood insurance rate map or Payne County's
flood insurance rate map are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by the city commission of the city of Drumright
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the city commission of the
city of Drumright.
OWRB: The Oklahoma water resources board.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (public law 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The "actual start" means either
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the "actual start of construction"
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the city commission of the city of Drumright to
a person from the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result
in unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full
requirements see section 60.6 of title 44 CFR.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American vertical
datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-6: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city of Drumright, Oklahoma. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-7: ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For Payne County,
Oklahoma And Incorporated Areas" dated May 16, 2007, with the accompanying
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), and the areas of special flood hazard
identified by FEMA in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study For Creek County, Oklahoma And Incorporated Areas" dated May
18, 2009, with the accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM), are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. This chapter
shall go into effect on May 18, 2009. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-8: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-9: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-10: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and any
other ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 262, 4-
13-2009)
12-1-11: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city of Drumright or any official
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 262, 4-
13-2009)
12-1-13: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: The city commission of the city of Drumright designates
the fire chief/code enforcement officer as floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of the national flood insurance program regulations in title 44 CFR
pertaining to floodplain management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1601 through 1618, as amended.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter.
      4.   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval are required.
      5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions).
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to FEMA.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data contemplated by section
12-1-7 of this chapter has not been provided by FEMA, the floodplain
administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from any federal, state or other
source, in order to administer the provisions of sections
12-1-16,
12-1-17,
12-1-18 and
12-1-19 of this chapter.
      9.   When a floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zone AE as
delineated on the Creek County FIRM or Payne County FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the city of Drumright.
      10.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the city of Drumright, determine if the residential and nonresidential
structures and manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce
the substantial improvement requirement.
      11.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the city commission.
      12.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-14: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
      2.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   C.   The floodplain administrator or city commission, as applicable, may
approve certain development in zone A or AE delineated on the Creek County FIRM
or Payne County FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base
flood by more than one foot (1'), provided that the applicant for the
development permit in that case first complies with 44 CFR section 65.12. (Ord.
262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-15: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The city commission of the city of Drumright may grant variances for
uses which do not satisfy the requirements of the Oklahoma floodplain
management act or this chapter, if the applicant for the variance presents
adequate proof that: a) compliance with this chapter will result in an
arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or
advantage to the people and b) satisfies the pertinent provisions of this
section. Provided, however, no variance shall be granted where the effect of
the variance will be to permit the continuance of a condition which
unreasonably creates flooding hazards.
      2.   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma floodplain
management act or by other laws of the state.
      3.   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
twenty (20) years.
      4.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the city
commission, accompanied by a filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      5.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection
12-1-14B of this chapter and provisions of this section have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      6.   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the mayor of the city which
states that: a) the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than
the base flood elevation, and b) such construction below the base flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      7.   At such time as the city commission deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the city commission shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in Creek County and a newspaper of general circulation in Payne
County at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing.
      8.   The city commission shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section.
The city commission shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the equities
involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to the
public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
      9.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         d.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      10.   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the
intent of this chapter, the city commission may attach such conditions to the
granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in section
12-1-3 of this chapter.
      11.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the floodplain board shall be sent by the floodplain
administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within fifteen (15) days after issuance of
the variance.
   B.   Special Provisions:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      4.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria of subsections A5, A9, B2, and B3 of this section
are met, and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-16: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-17: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevations have been
provided or are otherwise determined as set forth in section
12-1-7, subsection
12-1-13B8 or 12-1-18A of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection is
satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer,
architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the floodplain
administrator that the standard of this subsection is satisfied.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on
the Creek County FIRM or Payne County FIRM shall be installed using methods and
practices that minimize flood damage and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated
at least thirty six inches (36") above grade or at least at or above the base
flood elevation. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must
be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces. The home shall be installed by a
licensed installer according to Oklahoma state law and compliance herewith
shall be certified in writing to the floodplain administrator by said installer
prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zone AE on the Creek County FIRM or Payne County FIRM on sites:
a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, b) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, c) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or d) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam
for the manufactured home is elevated at least two feet (2') above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. A licensed
installer shall install the home in accordance with state law and compliance
herewith shall be certified in writing to the floodplain administrator by said
installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zone AE on
the Creek County FIRM or Payne County FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection D2 of this section be elevated so that the bottom of
the I-beam of the manufactured home is at least two feet (2') above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. A licensed
installer shall install the home in accordance with state law and compliance
herewith shall be certified in writing to the floodplain administrator by said
installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A and AE on the Creek County FIRM or Payne County FIRM
either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days,
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of section
12-1-14 of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection D of this section. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
   F.   Accessory Structure: Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
zones A and AE on the Creek County FIRM or Payne County FIRM shall comply with
the following:
      1.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      2.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      3.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
      4.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE;
      5.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      6.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      7.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
      8.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      9.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
      10.   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-18: SUBDIVISION STANDARDS:
   A.   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
zones A and AE which is fifty one (51) or more lots or greater than five (5)
acres shall generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
   B.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   C.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-19: FLOODWAYS:
The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
   A.   Encroachments, including, but not limited to, fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the city of Drumright during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of sections
12-1-16,
12-1-17 and
12-1-18 of this chapter and this section.
   C.   The city of Drumright may permit encroachments within the adopted
floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided
that the applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 CFR
section 65.12. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
12-1-20: PENALTY:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or imprisoned for not more than one year or both, for each violation, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city commission of the city of Drumright or its
city attorney from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation. (Ord. 262, 4-13-2009)
CHAPTER 7
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE ESTABLISHMENTS 1
SECTION:
3-7-1: Location Within City Unlawful
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-12 of this title for penalty provisions.
3-7-1: LOCATION WITHIN CITY UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to establish, maintain
or operate within the corporate limits of the city any automobile salvage, junk
or wrecking establishment. (1980 Code § 5-35; amd. 2002 Code)
