CITY OF DUNCAN, OKLAHOMA
Code current through:
Ord. 1877, passed 6-24-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1872
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF DUNCAN, OKLAHOMA
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oklahoma empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DUNCAN,
OKLAHOMA.
Section 1. The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma."
Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
Chapter
PART 1:    GENERAL PROVISIONS
      1.   Use and Construction of the Code
      2.   Corporate and Ward Limits
PART 2:    ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
      1.   Government Organization
      2.   City Council
      3.   City Manager
      4.   City Clerk and Treasurer
      5.   Other Departments and Personnel
      6.   Social Security
      7.   Retirement and Pensions
      8.   Rules of Procedure for Public Meetings
      9.   Audit Committee
      10.   Telecommunications Commission
      11.   Grant Administration
PART 3:    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      1.   Alcoholic Beverages
      2.   Low Point Beer
PART 4: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      1.   General Provisions
      2.   Animal Control
      3.   Miscellaneous Provisions
      4.   Dogs and Cats
      5.   Wild or Exotic Animals
      6.   Cruelty to Animals
      7.   Bird Sanctuary
      8.   Enforcement, Penalties and Fees
PART 5:    BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
      1.   General Provisions
      2.   Building Codes
      3.   Plumbing Regulations
      4.   Electrical Regulations
      5.   Residential Code
      6.   Mechanical Code
      7.   Moving Buildings
      8.   Dilapidated Buildings
      9.   House Numbering
      10.   Fair Housing
      11.   Oil and Gas Drilling and Production
      12.   Sewer Line Connection Regulations
      13.   Building Demolition
      14.   Penalty and Judicial Relief
      15.   Telecommunications Towers and Antennas
      16.   Hospitals and Ambulatory Surgical Care Facilities
      17.   Building Contractors Registration Certificate
      18.   Water Well Drilling Regulations
PART 6:    COURT
      1.   Municipal Court
PART 7:    FINANCE AND TAXATION
      1.   Finance and Budget Administration
      2.   Sales Tax
      3.   Telephone Exchange Tax
      4.   Utilities Fee
      5.   Hotel Tax
      6.   Use Tax
      7.   Emergency Telephone Service Fee
PART 8:    HEALTH AND SANITATION
      1.   Weeds and Trash
      2.   Food and Restaurants
      3.   Nuisances
      4.   Inoperable, Unlicensed and Abandoned Vehicles
      5.   Littering
      6.   Tobacco and Vapor Products
      7.   Medical Marijuana
PART 9:    LICENSING AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      1.   Occupational License Tax Generally
      2.   Peddlers, Transient Merchants and Contribution Solicitors
      3.   Pawnbrokers
      4.   Junk Dealers
      5.   Recreation Centers
      6.   Coin-Operated Amusement Devices
      7.   Private Security Officers
      8.   Private Investigators
      9.   City Ambulance Service
      10.   Garage Sales
      11.   Penalty
      12.   Donation Boxes
PART 10:    OFFENSES AND CRIMES
      1.   Offenses in General
      2.   Offenses Against Property
      3.   Offenses Against the Public
      4.   Offenses Against Health, Welfare and Morals
      2.   Enforcement
      3.   Vehicle Equipment
      4.   Speed Regulations
      5.   Driving, Overtaking, Passing
      6.   Traffic Control Devices
      7.   Stopping, Standing and Parking Generally
      8.   Loading
      9.   Turning Movements
      10.   Pedestrians
      11.   Bicycles
      12.   Motorcycles
      13.   Impoundment of Vehicles
      14.   Penalties
      15.   Golf Carts and Utility Vehicles
PART 16: TRANSPORTATION
      1.   Airport
      2.   Taxicabs
      3.   Railroads
PART 17: UTILITIES
      1.   Utility Services in General
      2.   Water Department and Services
      3.   Sewer System and Services
      4.   Electric System
      5.   Garbage and Other Refuse
      6.   Penalty
APPENDICES
      1.   Electric Franchise
      2.   Gas Franchise
      3.   Cable Franchise
      4.   City Hospital Authority
      5.   City Industrial Foundation
      6.   City Public Utilities Authority
      7.   Zoning Map Amendments
      8.   Master Sidewalk Plan Amendments
      PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6: EMERGENCY CLAUSE
WHEREAS, it being immediately necessary for the preservation of the peace,
health, safety and welfare of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma, and the inhabitants
thereof that the provisions of this Ordinance be put into full force and
effect, an emergency is hereby declared to exist by reason whereof this
Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after its passage as
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED by City Council of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma, this 8th
Day of April 2025.
APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma, this 8th Day of April
2025.
 
THE CITY OF DUNCAN, OKLAHOMA,
A Municipal Ccyporation
By:                                                     
Robert Armstrong, Mayor
 
Attest:
                                      
Christina Johnson
Deputy City Clerk
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY
                                      
David Hammond
City Attorney
CHARTER
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE 1
INCORPORATION; FORM OF GOVERNMENT; POWERS
     
Section 1-1 Incorporation
Section 1-2 Form Of Government
Section 1-3 Powers Of The City
ARTICLE 2
THE COUNCIL
Section 2-1 Councilmen: Number, Election, Term, Qualifications
Section 2-2 Mayor And Vice-Mayor
Section 2-3 Councilmen: Compensation
Section 2-4 Council: Powers
Section 2-5 Council Not To Interfere In Appointments And Removals
Section 2-6 City Clerk
Section 2-7 Council: Induction Into Office, Meetings
Section 2-8 Council: Absences To Terminate Membership
Section 2-9 Council: Removal
Section 2-10 Council: Vacancies
Section 2-11 Council: Quorum, Rules, Yeas And Nays
Section 2-12 Ordinances: Enacting Clause
Section 2-13 Ordinances: Passage; When In Effect
Section 2-14 Ordinances: Emergency
Section 2-15 Ordinances: Adoption By Reference
Section 2-16 Ordinances: Codification
ARTICLE 3
CITY MANAGER AND ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
Section 3-1 City Manager: Appointment, Term, Qualifications, Removal
Section 3-2 Acting City Manager
Section 3-3 City Manager: Powers And Duties
Section 3-4 Administrative Departments, Offices And Agencies
Section 3-5 Library Board
ARTICLE 4
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE; FISCAL AFFAIRS
Section 4-1 City Treasurer: Office Created, Duties
Section 4-2 Purchases And Sales
Section 4-3 Sale Of Utilities And Of Property Valued At More Than $10,000
Section 4-4 Public Improvements
Section 4-5 Fiscal Year
Section 4-6 Independent Annual Audit; Inventory System
ARTICLE 5
PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section 5-1 Electric Utility: Operation And Accounting
Section 5-2 Other Utilities And Enterprises: Operation And Accounting
ARTICLE 6
MUNICIPAL COURT
Section 6-1 Municipal Court
ARTICLE 7
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
Section 7-1 Overlapping Terms: Nominated And Elected At Large: Nonpartisan
Elections
Section 7-2 Filing (Rep. by Res. 1518, 8-11-2009)
Section 7-3 Only One Candidate
Section 7-4 Primary Election: Who Nominated Or Elected (Rep. by Res. 1520, 8-
11-2009)
Section 7-5 General Election: Time, When Not Held, Who Elected
Section 7-6 Political Activity Of Officers And Employees
Section 7-7 State Constitution And Law To Govern
ARTICLE 8
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 8-1 Feminine Gender
Section 8-2 Initiative And Referendum
Section 8-3 Merit System
Section 8-4 Qualifications Of Officers And Employees
Section 8-5 Nepotism, Compatibility Of Offices
Section 8-6 Bonds
Section 8-7 Oath Of Office
Section 8-8 Who May Administer Oaths
Section 8-9 Removal Of Officers And Employees
Section 8-10 Acting Officers And Employees
Section 8-11 Separability Clause
ARTICLE 9
AMENDMENT
Section 9-1 Amendment: Proposal, Ratification, Approval
Section 9-2 Amendment: Board Of Freeholders
Section 9-3 Wards
Section 9-4 New Charter To Go Into Effect When Approved By Governor
Section 9-5 Ordinances Continued
Section 9-6 Officers And Employees Continued
Section 9-7 Pending Actions And Proceedings
ARTICLE 10
ARTICLE 11
RECALL OF ELECTED OFFICIALS
(Adopted March 1986)
Section 11-1 Recall Authorized
Section 11-2 Recall Petition
Section 11-3 Recall Election: Council To Order
Section 11-4 Recall Election: How Held
Section 11-5 Person Recalled Or Resigning
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the city of Duncan, Oklahoma, exercising the powers of
home rule granted to us by the constitution and laws of the state of Oklahoma,
in order to provide for more efficient, adequate and economical government, do
hereby amend the heretofore existing charter of the city of Duncan, Oklahoma,
by repealing it and substituting in lieu thereof, this charter of the city of
Duncan; and do hereby ordain, ratify and establish this charter of the city of
Duncan, Oklahoma, as the organic law of the city.
ARTICLE 1
INCORPORATION; FORM OF GOVERNMENT; POWERS
Section 1-1 Incorporation.
   The city of Duncan, Oklahoma, within the corporate limits as now established
or as hereafter established, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and
corporate in perpetuity under the name of the “City of Duncan, Oklahoma”. It
shall succeed to and possess all the property rights, privileges, franchises,
powers and immunities now belonging to the corporation known as the city of
Duncan, Oklahoma; and shall be liable for all debts and other obligations for
which the corporation is now legally bound.
 Section 1-2 Form Of Government.
   The municipal government provided by this charter shall be known as the
“council-manager government”. All powers of the city shall be exercised in the
manner prescribed by this charter, or, if the manner is not thus prescribed,
then in such manner as the council may prescribe by ordinance.
Section 1-3 Powers Of The City.
   1. The city shall have all powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises
and immunities granted to cities by the state constitution and law and all the
implied powers increased to carry into execution all the law granted. Except as
prohibited by the state constitution and law, the city shall have all municipal
powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities of every name
and nature whatsoever;
   2. The city shall have power to adopt a corporate seal and to alter it at
pleasure, to sue and to be sued, and to make contracts. It shall have power to
acquire property within or without its corporate limits for any city purpose,
including public utilities, works and ways, in fee simple or any lesser
interest or estate, by purchase, gift, devise, lease, condemnation or other
legal means; and to hold, maintain, improve, enlarge, manage, control, operate,
lease, sell, convey or otherwise dispose of, such property as its interests may
require, including public utilities, works and ways. It shall have power to
issue bonds in the manner and within the limitations prescribed by the state
constitution and law. It shall have power, within the limits prescribed by the
state constitution and law, to accept and administer federal and state grants-
in-aid and to do everything necessary to accomplish the purpose or purposes for
which such grants may be made. It shall have power to ordain and to enforce
local legislation, consistent with the state constitution and law, for the
proper organization and functioning of the city government, for the
preservation and enforcement of good government and order, for the protection
of health, life, morals and property, for the prevention, summary abatement and
removal of nuisances, and otherwise for the promotion of the common welfare. It
shall have power to grant, extend and renew franchises in accordance with the
state constitution and law;
   3. The enumeration of particular powers by this charter shall not be deemed
to be exclusive or limiting; and in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, the city shall have all powers which, under the state
constitution and law, it would be competent for this charter specifically to
enumerate; and
   4. Provisions of state law relating to matters which may be regulated by
cities operating under charters, shall be in effect only insofar as they are
applicable and are not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
ARTICLE 2
THE COUNCIL
Section 2-1 Councilmen: Number, Election, Term, Qualifications.
   There shall be a council of five members, which shall consist of the mayor
as ex officio councilman at large and one councilman from each of the four
wards of the city as the wards are now constituted or as they may hereafter be
constituted by ordinance. The electors shall elect them as provided in this
charter for a term of three years and until their successors have been elected
and take office. Only qualified electors of the city shall be qualified for the
office of mayor and ex officio councilman at large. Only qualified electors
residing in the city and in the wards from which they are respectively elected
shall be qualified for the offices of councilmen from the wards; and removal of
such councilman from the ward from which he was elected to another ward shall
disqualify him from completing the term for which he was elected. Neither the
mayor nor any other councilman may hold any office or position in the city
government by appointment by the city manager.
Section 2-2 Mayor And Vice-Mayor.
   1. The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council and shall certify to
the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He shall
be recognized as head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes and by
the governor for purposes of military law. As councilman at large, he shall
have all the powers, rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of
councilmen. He shall have no regular administrative duties except that he shall
sign such written obligations of the city as the council may require. If a
vacancy occurs in the office of mayor when the office of vice-mayor is vacant,
the council shall elect a qualified elector of the city, who may or may not
already be a councilman at the time, to be mayor for completion of the
unexpired term; and
   2. Every year, at the first meeting after the time for the beginning of the
term of a newly elected mayor or councilmen or as soon thereafter as
practicable, the council shall elect one of its members vice-mayor, who shall
serve as such until the next such first meeting. The vice-mayor shall act as
mayor during the absence or disability of the mayor, and if a vacancy occurs in
the office of mayor, shall become mayor and ex officio councilman from that
ward for the completion of the unexpired term. If by succession to the office
of mayor or otherwise the office of vice-mayor becomes vacant, the council
shall elect from its members another vice-mayor for the completion of the
unexpired term.
Section 2-3 Councilmen: Compensation.
   Neither the mayor nor any other councilman may receive any compensation as
such or for any other service rendered the city, other than expenses.
Section 2-4 Council: Powers.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all powers of the city,
including the determination of all matters of policy, shall be vested in the
council. Without limitation of the foregoing, the council may:
   1. Appoint and remove the city manager as provided in this charter;
   2. By ordinance enact municipal legislation;
   3. Raise revenue, make appropriations, regulate bond elections, the issuance
of bonds, sinking funds, the refunding of indebtedness, salaries and wages, and
all other fiscal affairs of the city; subject to the provisions of the state
constitution and law and this charter;
   4. Establish or adopt a pension, retirement and/or social security system or
systems for any or all groups of the officers and employees in the service of
the city, either alone or in cooperation with the state or federal government
or both;
   5. Inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the city,
and investigate municipal affairs;
   6. Appoint or elect and remove its own subordinates, the members of the
personnel board, the members of the planning commission, the members of the
board of adjustment and other quasi-legislative, quasi-judicial or advisory
officers and authorities, now or when and if established, or prescribe the
method of appointing or electing and removing them;
   7. Grant pardons, including the remission of fines and costs;
   8. Regulate elections and the initiative and referendum within the limits
prescribed by the state constitution and law and this charter;
   9. Regulate the organization, powers, duties and functions of the municipal
court and of the minor violations bureau, when and if established, within the
limits prescribed by the state constitution and law and this charter; and
   10. Create, change and abolish all offices, departments and agencies of the
city other than the offices, departments and agencies created by this charter;
and assign additional powers, duties and functions to offices, departments and
agencies created by this charter.
Section 2-5 Council Not To Interfere In Appointments And Removals.
   Neither the mayor, the council nor any of its members may direct or request
the appointment of any person to, or his removal from, office or employment by
the city manager or by any other authority, or, except as provided in this
charter, participate in any manner in the appointment or removal of officers
and employees of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the mayor, the
council and its members shall deal with the administrative service solely
through the city manager; and neither the mayor, the council nor any member
thereof may give orders on administrative matters to any subordinate of the
city manager either publicly or privately.
Section 2-6 City Clerk.
   1. The city treasurer shall be ex officio city clerk, and an acting city
treasurer shall be ex officio acting city clerk. In the absence from a meeting
of the city clerk and acting city clerk if any, the council may appoint an
acting city clerk to serve for that particular meeting.
   2. The city clerk shall keep the journal of the proceedings of the council;
shall enroll in a book or books kept for the purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by it; shall be custodian of such documents, records and
archives as may be provided by applicable law or ordinance; shall be custodian
of the seal of the city; shall attest, and affix the seal to, documents when
required in accordance with applicable law or ordinance; and shall perform such
other duties as the charter or the council may prescribe or direct. The city
clerk, as such, does not collect revenue and other money for the city except as
may be incidental to his duties as city clerk; in all other cases where the law
or ordinances provide that money shall be paid to the city clerk, it shall be
paid instead to the city treasurer as city treasurer.
Section 2-7 Council: Induction Into Office, Meetings.
   The terms of office of the mayor and other councilmen shall begin at 7:30
o’clock P.M. on the first Monday in May following their election. The council
shall hold a meeting at that time, and those whose terms are beginning shall be
inducted into office. If the mayor-elect or any other councilman-elect fails to
qualify within one month thereafter, his office shall become vacant and the
council shall fill the vacancy. The council shall meet regularly at least
monthly at such times as it may prescribe by ordinance or otherwise. The mayor
or any three councilmen may call special meetings. All meetings of the council
shall be open to the public, the journal of its proceedings shall be open to
public inspection.
Section 2-8 Council: Absences To Terminate Membership.
   If the mayor or any other councilman shall be absent from more than one-half
of all the meetings of the council, regular and special, held within any period
of four consecutive months, he shall thereupon cease to hold office.
Section 2-9 Council: Removal.
   The mayor or any other councilman may be removed from office for any cause
specified by applicable state law for the removal of officers, and by the
method or methods prescribed thereby.
Section 2-10 Council: Vacancies.
   The council, by majority vote of its remaining members, shall fill vacancies
in its own membership for the unexpired terms.
Section 2-11 Council: Quorum, Rules, Yeas And Nays.
   A majority of all of the members of the council shall constitute a quorum,
but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day. The council shall determine
its own rules. On the demand of any member, the vote on any question shall be
by yeas and nays and shall be entered in the journal.
Section 2-12 Ordinances: Enacting Clause.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the council shall be, “Be it
ordained by the Council of the City of Duncan”, and of all ordinances proposed
by the voters under their power of initiative, “Be it ordained by the People of
the City of Duncan”.
Section 2-13 Ordinances: Passage; When In Effect.
   Every proposed ordinance shall be read, and a vote of a majority of all the
councilmen shall be required for the final passage of an ordinance. The vote on
final passage of every ordinance shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be
entered in the journal. The mayor shall have no power of veto. Within ten days
after its passage, every ordinance shall be published in full or by title in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city. Every ordinance except an
emergency ordinance, shall become effective thirty days after its final passage
unless it specifies a later time.
Section 2-14 Ordinances: Emergency.
   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which in the judgment of the council
is necessary for the immediate preservation of peace, health or safety. Every
such ordinance shall contain, as part of its title, the words, “and declaring
an emergency”; and in a separate section, herein called the emergency section,
shall declare the emergency. The council shall vote on the emergency section
separately, and must adopt the section by a vote of at least four-fifths of all
the members of the council, which vote shall be by yeas and nays and be entered
in the journal. An emergency ordinance shall take effect upon publication
unless it specifies a later time.
Section 2-15 Ordinances: Adoption By Reference.
   The council by ordinance may adopt by reference codes, ordinances and
standards relating to building, plumbing, electrical installations, milk and
milk products, and other matters which it has power to regulate otherwise. Such
a code, ordinance or standard so adopted need not be enrolled in the book of
ordinances; but a copy shall be filed and kept in the office of the city clerk.
The city clerk shall keep copies of every such code, ordinances or standard in
force for distribution or sale at their approximate cost.
Section 2-16 Ordinances: Codification.
   The ordinances of the city shall be codified and published in book or
pamphlet form at least every ten years unless the council, by use of a loose-
leaf system and process of amendment, keeps the code up-to-date. Titles,
enacting clauses and emergency sections may be omitted from the code; and
temporary and special ordinances and parts of ordinances may be omitted from
the code. Permanent general ordinances and parts of ordinances which are to be
repealed by, the code, shall be omitted from the code. The ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the code may be revised, rearranged and reorganized;
and the code may contain new matter, provisions of the state constitution and
law relating to the city and provisions of this charter. A copy of the
published code shall be filed in the office of the city clerk after adoption by
council, but the code need not be enrolled in the book of ordinances.
ARTICLE 3
CITY MANAGER AND ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
Section 3-1 City Manager: Appointment, Term, Qualifications, Removal.
   There shall be a city manager. The council shall appoint him for an
indefinite term by a vote of a majority of all its members. It shall choose him
solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications. At the
time of his appointment, he need not be a resident of the city or state; but,
during his tenure of office, he shall reside within the city. Neither the mayor
nor any other councilman may be appointed city manager or acting city manager
during the term for which he shall have been elected nor within two years after
the expiration of his term. The council may suspend or remove the city manager
at any time by a vote of a majority of all its members.
Section 3-2 Acting City Manager.
   If the city manager is absent from the city or is unable to perform his
duties, if the council suspends the city manager, or if there is a vacancy in
the office of city manager, the council may appoint an acting city manager to
serve until the city manager returns, until his disability or suspension
ceases, or until it appoints another city manager, as the case may be. The
council may suspend or remove the acting city manager at any time.
Section 3-3 City Manager: Powers And Duties.
   The city manager shall be chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He shall execute the laws and
ordinances and administer the government of the city, and shall be responsible
therefor to the council. He shall:
   1. Appoint, and when necessary for the good of the service, suspend, demote
or remove all heads of administrative departments and other administrative
officers and employees of the city except as he or the council by ordinance may
authorize the head of a department, an officer or an agency to appoint and
suspend, demote or remove subordinates in such department, office or agency,
subject to such merit system regulations as the council may ordain;
   2. Supervise and control, directly or indirectly, all administrative
officers, agencies and employees;
   3. Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the council, be responsible
for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect, and recommend
to the council any changes in the budget which he deems desirable;
   4. Submit to the council a report at the end of the fiscal year on the
finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year;
   5. Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of
the city, and make such recommendations as may seem to him desirable; and
   6. Perform such other duties as this charter may prescribe and such duties
as the council may prescribe, consistent with this charter.
Section 3-4 Administrative Departments, Offices And Agencies.
   There shall be a department of finance, an electric utility department, a
police department, a fire department, a department of law headed by a city
attorney, and such other administrative departments, offices and agencies as
this charter establishes and as the council may establish; provided that the
person in charge of the electric utility department meet qualifications
specified by the city manager.
(Amendment adopted March 1986)
Section 3-5 Library Board.
   1. There shall be a library board, which shall be head of the library
department. It shall consist of five members appointed by the city manager for
overlapping terms of five years and to serve until their successors have been
appointed and take office; and the term of one of the members shall expire at
7:30 o’clock P.M. on the first Monday in May every year. The city manager may
remove a member for the good of the service, and he may fill vacancies for the
unexpired terms. Members shall serve without compensation; and
   2. The library board shall have supervision and control of the public
library or libraries of the city, and shall appoint the librarian or librarians
and all other subordinates; provided that the board may authorize a librarian
to appoint his subordinates. The library board may adopt regulations for the
administration and operation of the library or libraries, subject to ordinances
which the council may enact.
ARTICLE 4
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE; FISCAL AFFAIRS
Section 4-1 City Treasurer: Office Created, Duties.
   There shall be a city treasurer, who shall be an officer of the city
appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term, and who shall be head of
the department of finance. Subject to such regulations as the council may
prescribe, the city treasurer shall collect or receive revenue and other money
for the city, and shall deposit the same in such depositories as the council
may designate. The city treasurer shall maintain a general accounting system
for the city government. He shall have such other powers and duties as may be
prescribed by this charter, by applicable law, or by the council.
Section 4-2 Purchases And Sales.
   1. The city manager, subject to any regulations which the council may
prescribe, shall contract for the purchase, or issue purchase authorizations
for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments and
agencies of the city government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding an
amount to be established by ordinance, shall require the prior approval of the
council. The city manager also may transfer to or between offices, departments
and agencies, or sell, surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and equipment,
subject to such regulations as the council may prescribe;
   2. Before the purchase of, or contract for, any supplies, materials or
equipment, or the sale of any surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or
equipment, ample opportunity for competitive bidding, under such regulations,
and with such exceptions, as the council may prescribe, shall be given; but the
council shall not except a particular contract, purchase or sale from the
requirement of competitive bidding; and
   3. The council by ordinance may transfer some or all of the power granted to
the city manager by this section, relating to purchases and sales, to an
officer appointed by and subordinate to the city manager.
Section 4-3 Sale Of Utilities And Of Property Valued At More Than $10,000.
   1. The sale of the electric generating plant of the city, the electric
distribution system to the entire electric utility, or of the water utility,
shall be made only by authority of a special non-emergency ordinance. Such
ordinance shall be published in full in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city within ten days after its passage, and shall not become
effective until it shall have been referred to the qualified electors of the
city at a general or special election and approved by a majority of the
qualified electors voting on the question of approving the ordinance; and
   2. The sale of any other property, real, personal or mixed, or of any
interest therein, the value of which is more than $10,000, shall be made only
by authority of a special non-emergency ordinance. Such ordinance shall be
published in full passage, and shall include a section reading substantially as
follows: Section--. This ordinance shall be referred to a vote of the electors
of the city if a proper referendum petition is properly filed within thirty
days after its passage; otherwise it shall go into effect thirty days after its
passage.
Section 4-4 Public Improvements.
   Public improvements may be made by the city government itself or by
contract. The council shall award all contracts for such improvements; provided
that the council may authorize the city manager to award such contracts not
exceeding an amount to be determined by the council and subject to such
regulations as the council may prescribe. Every contract for public
improvements of more than $1,000 shall be awarded to the lowest and the best
responsible bidder after such notice and opportunity for competitive bidding as
the council may prescribe. All bids may be rejected, and further notice and
opportunity for competitive bidding may be given.
Section 4-5 Fiscal Year.
   The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of
January and shall end on the last day of December of every calendar year, with
January 1, 2011 being the first date the new fiscal year becomes effective.
(Res. 1517, 8-11-2009)
Section 4-6 Independent Annual Audit; Inventory System.
   a. The council shall designate a certified public accountant or accountants
who shall make an independent audit of the accounts and evidences of financial
transactions of the department of finance and of all other departments, offices
and agencies keeping separate or subordinate accounts or making financial
transactions, as of the end of every fiscal year at least, and who shall report
to the council and to the city manager. In lieu of the above, the council may
arrange with an appropriate state authority for such an audit when and if
permitted by law.
   b. The council, by ordinance, shall prescribe a reasonable system for
inventory of, and accounting all fixed assets and property of the city, both
real and personal, having a value per individual item exceeding the sum of five
hundred ($500.00) dollars. The inventory and accounting system prescribed by
the council shall conform to generally accepted accounting practices relating
to municipal corporations or other local governmental entities.
(Amendment adopted March 1986)
ARTICLE 5
PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section 5-1 Electric Utility: Operation And Accounting.
   1. The electric utility of the city is a business, and it shall be operated
in a businesslike manner. An electric utility fund is hereby established, and
the electric utility shall be operated from this fund, separate from the
general fund of the city;
   2. An accounting system for the electric utility shall be established within
the general accounting system of the city. The accounting system shall be so
set up and operated as to reflect the financial condition of the utility and
its income and expense; and a balance sheet and statement of income and expense
(profit and loss) shall be made annually and as often as the council may
require;
   3. The electric utility shall be duly compensated for all supplies,
materials, equipment and services (including electric current at regular rates)
which it furnishes either to other units of the city government or to others;
and all income of the electric utility shall be credited to the electric
utility fund;
   4. The electric utility shall be duly charged for all supplies, materials,
equipment and services which are furnished to it either by other units of the
city government or by others; and all expenses of the electric utility shall be
charged against the electric utility fund. Among the expenses shall be an
amount reasonably reflecting the actual depreciation of the properties of the
utility during that accounting period. Also among the expenses shall be an
amount equal to the interest earned during that period on any bonds the
proceeds of which were used for the electric utility, and that amount shall be
paid or transferred into the sinking fund to pay the interest on bonds or into
the general fund. The council may make a reasonable estimate of all taxes of
all kinds which the electric utility would pay if it were privately owned and
operated, and may provide that a contribution in lieu of taxes of the estimated
amount be charged against the electric utility as an expense, and the
contribution in lieu of taxes be paid into the general fund or into the sinking
fund; and
   5. With exception of the contribution in lieu of taxes and the payment or
transfer of an amount equal to the interest earned during that period on any
bonds the proceeds of which were used for the electric utility, no contribution
from net income (profit) or surplus, nor any other contribution or transfer
from the electric utility fund may be made to the general fund or to any other
fund of the city until an amount or amounts sufficient to meet sinking fund
requirement for the fiscal year for principal and interest of outstanding bonds
the proceeds of which were used for the electric utility, have been paid from
the electric utility fund into the sinking fund.
Section 5-2 Other Utilities And Enterprises: Operation And Accounting.
   The council may require that other utilities and business enterprises
operated by the city (water utility, airport, hospital, parking facility,
refuse disposal, etc.) shall be operated and accounted for in a manner similar
to that prescribed above for the electric utility.
ARTICLE 6
MUNICIPAL COURT
Section 6-1 Municipal Court.
   There shall be a municipal judge, who shall be an officer of the city
appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term. The council may suspend
or remove the municipal judge or acting municipal judge at any time by a vote
of a majority of all its members. The municipal judge shall have original
jurisdiction to hear and determine all cases involving offenses against the
charter and ordinances of the city; provided that the council by ordinance may
create a minor violations bureau with authority to dispose of cases arising out
of designated minor violations, such as minor traffic and parking violations,
on request of accused persons who desire to plead guilty and who are able and
willing to pay fines and costs. The municipal judge shall keep a record of all
proceedings of the municipal court, of the disposition of all cases, and of all
fines and other money collected. The style of all processes shall be in the
name of the city. The municipal judge may administer oaths, make and enforce
all proper orders, rules and judgments, and punish for contempt.
ARTICLE 7
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
Section 7-1 Overlapping Terms: Nominated And Elected At Large: Nonpartisan
Elections.
   1. The term of the first mayor elected under this charter, shall be three
years; the terms of the first councilmen from wards one and two elected under
this charter, shall be two years; the terms of the first councilmen from wards
three and four elected under this charter, shall be one year. Every year
thereafter, the successors of those whose terms are expiring shall be elected
for overlapping terms of three years;
   2. All candidates for mayor and councilmen shall be nominated and the mayor
and all councilmen shall be elected, at large, by the qualified electors of the
entire city, although candidates for councilmen from the wards must be
qualified electors of their respective wards; and
   3. Both the primary and the general election shall be nonpartisan; and no
party designation or emblem shall be placed on the ballot.
Section 7-2 Filing.
   (Rep. by Res. 1518, 8-11-2009)
Section 7-3 Only One Candidate.
   If not more than one (1) person is a candidate for an office to be filled he
shall not appear on the general election ballot but shall be considered the
successful candidate in each office to be filled.
(Res. 1519, 8-11-2009)
Section 7-4 Primary Election: Who Nominated Or Elected.
   (Rep. by Res. 1520, 8-11-2009)
Section 7-5 General Election: Time, When Not Held, Who Elected.
   The general election shall be held in the city of Duncan on the 1st Tuesday
in April or on a date which may be changed pursuant to the election laws of the
state of Oklahoma, in order to elect the successor or successors of those whose
terms are expiring, if candidates for one or more such offices remain to be
voted upon. Every qualified elector to the city of Duncan shall be entitled to
vote for one candidate for each of the offices to be filled. The candidates for
each office receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected. It is
further understood that general elections shall be commenced at least forty-
five (45) days subsequent to the primary election.
(Res. 1448, 1-25-2005)
Section 7-6 Political Activity Of Officers And Employees.
   No officer or employee of the city except the mayor and other councilmen,
may attempt to influence the nomination, election or defeat of any candidate
for mayor or councilman except by the proper exercise of his right to vote. Any
person who violates this provision, shall be punished, upon conviction thereof,
by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars inclusive of costs. Such violation shall
constitute cause for removal from office or employment.
Section 7-7 State Constitution And Law To Govern.
   The precinct and county election boards shall conduct the primary and
general elections and special elections of the city. The provisions of the
state constitution and law relating to elections, shall govern such elections
insofar as they are applicable and are not superseded by this charter or by
ordinance.
ARTICLE 8
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 8-1 Feminine Gender.
   When the masculine gender is used in this charter, it shall also mean the
feminine unless the masculine alone is clearly indicated.
Section 8-2 Initiative And Referendum.
   The powers of the initiative and referendum are reserved to the people of
the city. In the exercise of these powers, the requirements of the state
constitution and law shall be observed.
Section 8-3 Merit System.
   Appointments and promotions in the service of the city shall be made solely
on the basis of merit and fitness, and removals and demotions shall be made
solely for the good of the service. Better to achieve these ends, the council
may establish a merit system and provide for its proper organization and
functioning and for the proper personnel administration.
Section 8-4 Qualifications Of Officers And Employees.
   Officers and employees of the city shall have the qualifications prescribed
by this charter and such additional qualifications as the council may prescribe
by ordinance; but the council shall not prescribe additional qualifications for
mayor and councilmen.
Section 8-5 Nepotism, Compatibility Of Offices.
   1. Neither the city manager, the council nor any other authority of the city
government, may appoint or elect any person related to any councilman, the city
manager, or to himself, or, in the case of a plural authority, to one if its
members, by affinity or consanguinity within the third degree, to any office or
position of profit in the city government; and
   2. Except as may be otherwise provided by this charter or by ordinance, the
same person may hold more than one office or position in the city government.
The city manager may hold more than one such office or position, through
appointment by himself, by the council or by other city authority having power
to fill the particular office or position, subject to any regulations which the
council may make by ordinance; but he may not receive compensation for service
in such other offices and positions. Also the council by ordinance may provide
that the city manager shall hold ex officio designated administrative offices
subordinate to the city manager as well as other designated compatible city
offices.
Section 8-6 Bonds.
   The mayor and other councilmen, the city manager, the city treasurer and
such other officers and employees as the council by ordinance may designate,
before entering upon their duties, shall provide bonds for the faithful
performance of their respective duties, payable to the city, in such form and
in such amounts as the council may prescribe by ordinance, with a surety
company authorized to operate within the state; provided that the bonds for
mayor and other councilmen shall be for $1,000 each unless the council by
ordinance prescribes a greater amount. The city shall pay the premiums on such
bonds.
Section 8-7 Oath Of Office.
   Every officer of the city, before entering upon the duties of his office,
shall take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the
state constitution. The oath shall be filed and kept in the city clerk’s
office.
Section 8-8 Who May Administer Oaths.
   All officers authorized by federal or state law, the mayor, the city clerk,
the city manager, the city treasurer, the heads of all other administrative
departments, the municipal judge and such other officers as the council may
authorize, may administer oaths.
Section 8-9 Removal Of Officers And Employees.
   Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the power to suspend, demote
and remove accompanies the power to appoint or elect; and the city manager or
other appointing or electing authority at any time may suspend, demote or
remove any officer or employee to whom he or the other appointing or electing
authority respectively may appoint or elect a successor.
Section 8-10 Acting Officers And Employees.
   The appointing or electing authority who may appoint or elect the successor
of an officer or employee, may appoint or elect a person to act during the
temporary absence, disability or suspension of such officer or employee, or, in
case of a vacancy, until a successor is appointed or elected and qualifies,
unless the council ordains that a particular superior or subordinate of such
officer or employee shall act. The council by ordinance may provide for a
deputy to act in such cases.
Section 8-11 Separability Clause.
   1. If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold any section or part of a
section of this charter invalid, such holding shall not affect the remainder of
this charter nor the context in which such section or part of a section so held
invalid may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of a
section may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with that section or
part of a section; and
   2. If a court of competent jurisdiction holds a part of this charter invalid
or if a change in the state constitution or law renders a part of this charter
invalid or inapplicable, the council by ordinance may take such appropriate
action as will enable the city government to function properly.
ARTICLE 9
AMENDMENT
Section 9-1 Amendment: Proposal, Ratification, Approval.
   This charter may be amended by proposals therefor submitted by the council,
or by the mayor upon initiative petition of the people as provided by the state
constitution, at a general or special election, ratified by a majority of the
qualified electors voting thereon, and approved by the governor as provided by
the state constitution. If more than one amendment is proposed, all of them
except those which are so interrelated that they should be ratified or rejected
together, shall be submitted in such manner that the electors may vote on them
separately. A proposition to amend this charter may be either in the form of a
proposed amendment to a part or parts of the charter or of a proposed new
charter.
Section 9-2 Amendment: Board Of Freeholders.
   The council by ordinance may provide for the election of a board of
freeholders to prepare and propose amendments to this charter. When an
amendment proposed by a board of freeholders shall have been submitted by the
council at a general or special election, ratified by a majority of the
qualified electors voting thereon, and approved by the governor, as provided by
the state constitution, it shall go into effect.
Section 9-3 Wards.
   A. Until the council provides otherwise by ordinance, the four wards of the
city shall be constituted as set forth in section 1-202 of the city code.
   B. Reference to streets shall mean the center lines of the streets.
Section 9-4 New Charter To Go Into Effect When Approved By Governor.
   If a majority of the qualified electors of the city voting on the question
vote to ratify this charter in lieu of the heretofore existing charter, this
charter shall go into effect immediately upon approval by the governor as
provided by the state constitution; provided that section 31 (relating to
operation of and accounting for the electric utility) shall go into effect at
the beginning of the next succeeding fiscal year unless the council by
ordinance provides that it shall go into effect sooner.
Section 9-5 Ordinances Continued.
   All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this charter,
shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they expire by their
own limitations.
Section 9-6 Officers And Employees Continued.
   1. The five commissioners under the previous charter shall continue in
office under this charter until the expiration of the terms for which they were
elected, and until their respective successors have been elected and take
office; but their title under this charter shall be “councilman” instead of
“commissioner”. They shall continue to draw compensation at the rate of $25.00
per month until the expiration of the terms which they are serving when this
charter goes into effect;
   2. All other officers and employees of the city under the previous charter
shall continue in the offices and employments which they respectively hold,
after this charter goes into effect, and until their services are terminated in
accordance with the provisions of this charter; and
   3. If there are six members of the library board at the time this charter
goes into effect, they all shall continue as members until a vacancy occurs or
until the terms of two members expire. At that time, the number of members
shall be reduced to five. The city manager shall adjust the terms of the
members so that the term of one shall expire at 7:30 o’clock P.M. on the first
Monday in May each year.
Section 9-7 Pending Actions And Proceedings.
   The adoption of this charter shall not abate or otherwise affect any action
or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending when it takes full effect, brought by
or against the municipality or any office, department agency or officer
thereof.
ARTICLE 10
ARTICLE 11
RECALL OF ELECTED OFFICIALS
   (Adopted March 1986)
Section 11-1 Recall Authorized.
   The incumbent of any elective city office, including a person appointed to
fill a vacancy in any such elective office, may be recalled from office by the
electors qualified to vote for the election of a successor to the incumbent, in
the manner provided in this article.
(Amendment adopted March 1986)
Section 11-2 Recall Petition.
   a. To initiate recall proceedings, a written statement proposing the recall
of the incumbent of an elective office shall be signed by one hundred (100) or
more registered qualified electors of the city or ward concerned; and shall be
filed with the city clerk after the incumbent has held the office at least four
(4) months. The statement shall also contain the reason or reasons for which
the recall is sought, in not more than two hundred (200) words. Within five (5)
days, the city clerk shall mail a photostatic or other copy of such statement
by registered, certified, or similar special mail to the officer at his
residential address. Within ten (10) days after the statement is mailed to the
officer, the officer may make and file with the city clerk a written statement
in duplicate justifying his conduct in office, in not more than two hundred
(200) words; and the city clerk on request shall deliver one (1) copy to one
(1) of the persons filing the statement proposing the recall.
   b. The petition for recall shall include a demand that a successor to the
incumbent sought to be recalled be elected, and shall also include before the
space where the signatures are to be written the statement giving the reason or
reasons for recall under the heading “STATEMENT FOR RECALL”, and if the officer
has filed a statement as authorized, the statement justifying his conduct in
office under the heading “STATEMENT AGAINST RECALL”. The two (2) statements
shall be in letters of the same size. A copy of the petition shall be filed
with the city clerk within one (1) month after recall proceedings are initiated
by the filing of the first statement, and before the petition is circulated.
   c. A number of registered qualified electors of the city or ward concerned
equal to at least twenty (20) percent of the total number of votes cast for
governor in the city or ward at the last general state election at which a
governor was elected must sign the petition. Each signer shall write after his
name and his address within the city, giving street or avenue and number, if
any. Not more than one hundred (100) signatures may appear on a single copy of
the petition. Petitions may be circulated only by registered qualified electors
of the city or ward concerned; and the person who circulates each copy of the
petition shall sign an affidavit on the copy stating that each signer signed
the petition in his presence, that each signature on the petition is genuine,
and that he believes each signer to be a registered qualified elector of the
city or ward concerned; and the person who circulates each copy of the petition
shall sign an affidavit on the copy stating that each signer signed the
petition in his presence, that each signature on the petition is genuine, and
that he believes each signer to be a registered qualified elector of the city
or ward concerned.
   d. The circulated petition shall be filed with the city clerk not later than
one (1) month after the filing of a copy as provided above. Within one (1)
month after date of filing of the circulated petition, the city clerk shall
examine it and ascertain whether it has been prepared and circulated as
required, and whether the required number of registered qualified electors of
the city or ward have signed it. He shall then attach his certificate to the
petition. If his certificate states that the petition has not been prepared and
circulated as required and/or lacks a sufficient number of signatures, the
petition shall have no effect. But, if the city clerk’s certificate states that
the petition has been prepared and circulated as required and has a sufficient
number of signatures, he shall submit the petition and certificate to the
council at its next meeting. (Amendment adopted March 1986)
Section 11-3 Recall Election: Council To Order.
   a. The council, by resolution or ordinance passed within ten (10) days after
receiving the petition and certificate of the city clerk, shall order and fix
the date for a recall election, which shall be held not less than forty (40)
days, nor more than fifty (50) days, after passage of the resolution or
ordinance. The city clerk shall cause the resolution or ordinance ordering the
election to be published in full in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city within ten (10) days after its passage; and such publication shall be
sufficient notice of the election.
   b. The qualified electors of the city may vote in a recall election on the
election of successors to more than one (1) officer on the same day.
(Amendment adopted March 1986)
Section 11-4 Recall Election: How Held.
   a. The recall election shall be an election to fill the office held by the
incumbent sought to be recalled. There shall be no primary. Any qualified
person, including the incumbent, may file as a candidate for the office. The
candidate receiving the greatest number of votes in the recall election shall
be elected. If a candidate other than the incumbent is elected, the incumbent
shall be recalled from office effective as of the time when the result of the
election is certified. The successful candidate must qualify within one (1)
month thereafter; and if he fails to do so, the office shall be vacant, and the
vacancy shall be filled as other vacancies in the offices of mayor and
councilmen are filled. A candidate thus elected and qualifying shall serve for
the unexpired term. If the incumbent is a candidate and receives the greatest
number of votes, he shall continue in office without interruption; and recall
proceedings may not again be initiated against him within one (1) year after
the election.
   b. The provisions of this charter relating to city elections shall also
govern recall elections insofar as they are applicable and are not superseded
by the provisions of this article.
(Amendment adopted March 1986)
Section 11-5 Person Recalled Or Resigning.
   A person who has been recalled from an office, or who has resigned from such
office while recall proceedings were pending against him, shall not hold,
whether by election or appointment any office or position of employment in the
city government within two (2) years after his recall or resignation.
(Amendment adopted March 1986)
   CERTIFICATE
 
State of Oklahoma )
               SS
County of Stephens)
 
   I, Wayne M. Holden, Mayor of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma, hereby certify
that, at an election duly held on November 2nd, 1954, a majority of the
qualified electors of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma, voting on the proposition,
voted to amend the heretofore existing Charter of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma,
by repealing it and substituting in lieu thereof the Charter of the City of
Duncan, Oklahoma, attached hereto, and to ordain, ratify and establish the
Charter of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma, attached hereto, as the organic law of
the city, the vote being as follows:
 
   For the proposition: 2316
 
   Against the proposition: 852
 
   In witness whereof, I hereunto set my hand this the 16th day of November,
1954.
 
                                                     
   Mayor, City of Duncan, Oklahoma
Attest:                                        
   City Clerk, City of Duncan, Oklahoma
 
   SEAL
 
   The foregoing substituted charter, appearing not to be in conflict with the
constitution and laws of this State, is hereby approved by me this 6th day of
December, 1954.
 
                                                                      
   GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA
 
ATTEST: (SEAL)
 
                                     
SECRETARY OF STATE
 
A certified copy of this letter filed in County Clerk’s
office                                     .
 
                                 
   City Clerk, Ex officio
PART 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
      
1.    USE AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE
      
2.    CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
CHAPTER 1: USE AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE
Section
   
1-101   How code designated and cited
   
1-102   Rules of construction
   
1-103   Catchlines of sections; citations
   
1-104   Effect of repeal of ordinances
   
1-105   Severability of parts of code
   
1-106   Amendment to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language
   
1-107   Altering code
   
1-108   General and specific penalties
   
1-109   Fines recoverable by civil action
   
1-110   Ordinances in effect in outlying territory of city
§1-101 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated the “Code of Ordinances, City of Duncan, Oklahoma”
and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108 and 14-109
§1-102 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY or THIS CITY. The City of Duncan, Oklahoma.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to
be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the
time, but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Duncan, Oklahoma.
   COUNTY or THIS COUNTY. The County of Stephens, Oklahoma.
   GENDER. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to
other genders and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   LAW. Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the Constitution and
statutes of the state, the ordinances of the city and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   MANAGER or CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied
to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words used in
the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary intention
plainly appears.
   OATH. Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words “swear” and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and
“affirmed.”
   OR/AND. OR may be read AND, and AND may be read OR, if the sense requires
it.
   OTHER OFFICIALS OR OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, i.e., CLERK, CITY CLERK, CITY
ATTORNEY, FIRE CHIEF, CHIEF OF POLICE and the like, they shall mean the
officers, agencies or departments of the city.
   PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Shall include real and personal property.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to statutes of the state as they now are or
as they may be amended to be.
   STREET. Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
   TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   WEEK. Seven days.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§1-103 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS.
   The catchlines of sections in this code are printed in capital letters and
citations included at the ends of sections are intended to indicate the
contents of the section and original historical source, respectively, and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles and official sources of such sections; nor
as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines or citations, are
amended or reenacted.
§1-104 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before
or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance
shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took
effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the
repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
§1-105 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this code, or of any
ordinance in this code, shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or
otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of
the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
code.
§1-106 AMENDMENT TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code, or ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code, may be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion
thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from
reprinted pages.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language:
      Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma, that
Section                of the code of ordinances of the City of Duncan,
Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as follows: (Set out new provisions in
full.)
   (C)   When the Council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in this code, which the
Council desires to incorporate into this code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance:
      Section                . Be it ordained by the City Council of the City
of Duncan, Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be
made a part of the code of ordinances of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma, and the
sections of this ordinance may be re-numbered to accomplish this intention.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the
case may be.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-103 et seq.
§1-107 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions
any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which
will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person
violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
§1-108 GENERAL AND SPECIFIC PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law or this code, whenever in
this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or, whenever in this
code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act
is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed $750. The maximum fine or deferred
fee for traffic-related offenses relating to speeding or parking shall not
exceed $200. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of
this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the following offenses or provisions of
this code shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine, not to exceed $750
plus costs, or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or by both fine and
imprisonment except that possession of marijuana, DUI, APC, DWI, possession of
drug paraphernalia and DUI drugs shall carry upon conviction, a fine not to
exceed $800 and/or imprisonment for a period of up to 60 days:
      (1)   Prostitution, §
10-404;
      (2)   Keeping or residing in a house of prostitution, §
10-404;
      (3)   Marijuana, §
10-402, excluding medical marijuana, as provided for in
Part 8, Chapter 7 of this code;
      (4)   Drug paraphernalia, §
10-403;
      (5)   Reckless driving, §
15-522;
      (6)   Driver’s license, §
15-211;
      (7)   Operation of vehicle on invalid or suspended license, §
15-212;
      (8)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, §
15-525;
      (9)   Driving while under the influence of drugs, §
15-524;
      (10)   Public intoxication, §
10-401;
      (11)   Transporting open container of beer, §
3-212;
      (12)   Transporting open container of liquor, §
3-115;
      (13)   No or expired insurance, §
15-226;
      (14)   Petit larceny, §
10-201;
      (15)   Failure to obey citation, appear in court, §
15-220;
      (16)   Failure to obey an order of this court, §
6-118;
      (17)   Assault and battery, §
10-501;
      (18)   Assault or battery upon police or other law officer, §
10-603;
      (19)   Eluding police officer, §
10-613;
      (20)   Rules and regulations adopted by the Lake Commission and approved
by City Council, §
11-208;
      (21)   Tampering with utilities, § 10-206;
      (22)   Conviction on a second violation of the same offense within a 12-
month period, excluding parking violations and speeding violations,
Part 15 of this code;
      (23)   Violation of temporary or periodic restrictions on water usage, §§
17-218,
17-219,
17-220,
17-221 and
17-222; and
      (24)   Violation of resisting a police officer as specifically provided
for in §
10-601(E) and/or (F).
   (C)   The amount of court costs shall not exceed costs allowed pursuant to
11 O.S. § 27-126.
   (D)   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
section.
   (E)   (1)   A person who does any of the following acts or omissions shall
be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of up
to $1,000 per day and the costs for each day during which the act or omission
continues to occur or 30 days in jail for each said conviction or both a fine
and incarceration:
         (a)   Violates an effluent standard of limitation imposed by the
pretreatment program;
         (b)   Violates the terms or conditions of a permit issued pursuant to
the pretreatment program;
         (c)   Fails to complete a filing requirement of the pretreatment
program;
         (d)   Fails to allow or perform an entry, inspection, monitoring or
reporting requirement of the pretreatment program;
         (e)   Fails to pay user or cost recovery charges imposed by the
pretreatment program or violates a final determination or order of the Board or
Superintendent as described in §§
17-335 and
17-338; or
         (f)   Violates any provision of §§
17-360 through
17-363, regarding stormwater sewer system discharge.
      (2)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 30 calendar days,
be assessed an additional penalty of 25% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at the statutory rate recognized by district court. A
lien against the user’s property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines and
penalties.
   (F)   Those individuals found guilty of violating §
15-309 requiring the wearing of seat belts by both passengers and drivers shall
be assessed a fine and costs not to exceed $20. Said $20 shall not include a
$10 CLEET (Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training) assessment which
the state requires the municipal court to collect and disburse to the
appropriate state agency.
(Ord. 1500, passed 3-28-2000; Ord. 1519, passed 1-9-2001; Ord. 1642, passed 12-
12-2006; Ord. 1654, passed 8-14-2007; Ord. 1716, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 1724,
passed 4-22-2014; Ord. 1745, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 1814, passed 10-27-2020;
Ord. 1848, passed 9-12-2023; Ord. 1851, passed 12-12-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-111 and 27-119
§1-109 FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION.
   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
§1-110 ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF CITY.
   All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to or under the control of the city outside the
corporate limits of the city and shall be in full effect therein, insofar as
they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect in
the future shall also apply to and be in full effect within the boundaries of
all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance
provision is limited to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to
mean and include also the outlying real property belonging to or under the
control of the city, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
CHAPTER 2: CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
Section
   
1-201   Map of city designated as official map
   
1-202   Ward number and boundaries
§1-201 MAP OF CITY DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP.
   The map of the city showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the city, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the city, including all
annexations made to the city through and including the date of January 1, 1985.
§1-202 WARD NUMBER AND BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall be divided into four wards, as follows:
   (A)   Ward One shall be composed of all that portion of the city north of
Oak Avenue and Highway 7A, east of “D” Street and east of the O.K.T. Railroad
right-of-way (formerly the CRI&P Railroad);
   (B)   Ward Two shall be composed of all that portion of the city between the
O.K.T. Railroad right-of-way and U.S. Highway 81 north of Oak Avenue;
   (C)   Ward Three shall be composed of all that portion of the city west of
U.S. Highway 81, north of Oak Avenue to 17th Street, north of Birch Avenue to
22nd Street (between 17th Street and 22nd Street), north of Oak Avenue to 23rd
Street (between 22nd Street and 23rd Street) and north of Beech Avenue west of
23rd Street; and
   (D)   Ward Four shall be composed of that portion of the city west of U.S.
Highway 81, south of Oak Avenue east of 17th Street, south of Birch Avenue east
of 22nd Street (between 17th Street and 22nd Street), south of Oak Avenue east
of 23rd Street (between 22nd Street and 23rd Street), south of Beech Avenue
west of 23rd Street and all of that portion of the city lying south of Oak
Avenue west of “D” Street and Highway 7A east of Highway 81.
(Ord. 1553, passed 8-27-2002)
PART 2: ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
   Chapter
   
1.    GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
   
2.    CITY COUNCIL
   
3.    CITY MANAGER
   
4.    CITY CLERK AND TREASURER
   
5.    OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND PERSONNEL
   
6.    SOCIAL SECURITY
   
7.    RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
   
8.    RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC MEETINGS
   
9.    AUDIT COMMITTEE
   
10.    TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
   
11.    GRANT ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1: GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
Section
   
2-101   Council-Manager form of government
§2-101 COUNCIL-MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The city is governed by the statutory Council-Manager form of government.
The powers of the city are vested in the City Council.
CHAPTER 2: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
2-201   Council, membership
   
2-202   Elections held; three-year overlapping terms; candidate filing
   
2-203   Time of regular meetings of the Council
   
2-204   Meetings of the Council; duty to attend
   
2-205   Council duties
   
2-206   Mayor and Vice Mayor; duties
   
2-207   Compensation
   
2-208   Absentee ballots
§2-201 COUNCIL, MEMBERSHIP.
   The Council shall be composed of five members, consisting of one Council
member from each of the four wards of the city and the Mayor as ex officio
Council member at large.
§2-202 ELECTIONS HELD; THREE-YEAR OVERLAPPING TERMS; CANDIDATE FILING.
   (A)   The terms of the elected officers shall be staggered so that at any
one municipal election, the following officers are to be elected for three-year
terms: the Mayor.
   (B)   At the next municipal election, the following officers are to be
elected for three-year terms: Council members from Wards One and Two.
   (C)   At the next municipal election, the following officers are to be
elected for three-year terms: Council members from Wards Three and Four.
   (D)   (1)   A candidate may have his or her name printed upon the municipal
election ballot as candidate for any office to be filled at the election.
      (2)   To become a candidate, a declaration of candidacy must be filed
with the County Election Board no earlier than 8:00 a.m. on the first Monday in
February and no later than 5:00 p.m. on the next succeeding Wednesday.
      (3)   A candidate must also be a registered voter at an address within
the city, or of the ward where the office is from a ward, for at least six
months prior to filing a declaration of candidacy.
(Ord. 1730, passed 11-25-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 16-110
§2-203 TIME OF REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall hold a regular meeting on the second and fourth
Tuesday of every month at 5:15 p.m. If such a Tuesday falls on a holiday, the
regular meeting shall be held on the next day which is not a holiday.
(Ord. 1648, passed 4-23-2007)
§2-204 MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL; DUTY TO ATTEND.
   Every meeting of the Council shall be held in the Council chamber unless, in
case of an emergency, the Mayor or the Council members calling a special
meeting designate another place in the city for the holding of the special
meeting.
§2-205 COUNCIL DUTIES.
   The duties of the Council shall be those prescribed by law and the Charter
of the city.
§2-206 MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council and shall
certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by
it. As Council member at large, he or she shall have the rights and privileges
of a Council member. He or she shall be recognized as head of the city
government for all ceremonial purposes and by the Governor for purposes of
military law. He or she shall have no regular administrative duties except that
he or she shall sign all conveyances and other written obligations of the city
as the Council may require.
      (2)   The Vice Mayor shall act as Mayor during the absence, disability or
suspension of the Mayor.
   (B)   Every year, at the first meeting after the time for the beginning of
the term of a newly elected Mayor or Council members or as soon thereafter as
practicable, the Council shall elect one of its members Vice Mayor, who shall
serve as such until the next such first meeting.
§2-207 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Mayor or any Council member may not receive any compensation as
such for any services rendered the city other than actual expenses.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council members shall provide bonds for the
faithful performance of their respective duties, payable to the city in the
amount of $10,000 each, and the city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
(Ord. 1674, passed 2-10-2009)
§2-208 ABSENTEE BALLOTS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of state law, and as provided and controlled
thereby, absentee ballots shall be permitted in all primary, runoff, general
and special elections held within, for and on behalf of the city. It is
specifically recognized and declared that the Charter contains no provision
restricting the use of absentee ballots in municipal elections.
(Ord. 1216, passed 2-14-1984)
CHAPTER 3: CITY MANAGER
Section
   
2-301   City Manager appointment
§2-301 CITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT.
   The Council shall appoint a City Manager for an indefinite term by a vote of
a majority of all its members. It shall choose him or her solely on the basis
of his or her executive and administrative qualifications.
CHAPTER 4: CITY CLERK AND TREASURER
Section
   
2-401   City Clerk
   
2-402   Duties of City Clerk
   
2-403   City Treasurer
   
2-404   Duties of City Treasurer
§2-401 CITY CLERK.
   The City Treasurer shall be ex officio City Clerk.
§2-402 DUTIES OF CITY CLERK.
   The Clerk shall keep the journal of the proceedings of the Council. He or
she shall enroll in a book kept for the purpose, all ordinances and resolutions
passed by the Council. He or she shall keep the seal of the city and attest the
signature of the Mayor or Vice Mayor. He or she shall perform such other duties
as may be required by law or ordinance for the City Clerk.
§2-403 CITY TREASURER.
   There shall be a Treasurer for the city, appointed by the City Manager for
an indefinite term.
§2-404 DUTIES OF CITY TREASURER.
   The Treasurer shall collect and receive revenue and other money for the city
and deposit daily all funds coming into his or her hands in such depositories
as the Council may designate. He or she shall maintain a general accounting
system for the city government. He or she shall disburse such funds in the
manner provided by applicable law or ordinance. He or she shall have such other
powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by applicable law or by
ordinance.
CHAPTER 5: OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND PERSONNEL
Section
   
2-501   City Attorney
   
2-502   City-County Health Department Director
   
2-503   Officers and employees; number and classes; compensation
   
2-504   Certain personnel to be bonded
§2-501 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney is appointed by the City Manager for an indefinite term
and is removable by the City Manager. The City Attorney is an officer of the
city. The City Attorney is the chief legal adviser of the Council and all other
officers, departments and agencies of the city government in matters relating
to their official powers and duties. He or she represents the city in
proceedings in the courts and performs all services incident to his or her
position which may be required by law or ordinance.
§2-502 CITY-COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The City-County Health Department and its Director shall have the
powers of a City Health Department and city health officer respectively for the
city.
   (B)   References to Health Department and health officer or Director of the
Health Department in this code and in other ordinances of the city mean the
City-County Health Department and its Director, unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning.
§2-503 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; NUMBER AND CLASSES; COMPENSATION.
   The Council, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may regulate the number of
classes of officers and positions of employment in the various departments,
offices and agencies of the city government, and may determine or regulate the
compensation to be paid to officers and employees.
§2-504 CERTAIN PERSONNEL TO BE BONDED.
   (A)   Before entering upon their official duties, the following personnel of
the city government shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their
official duties, payable to the city, with a surety company authorized to
operate within the state, in such amounts as set or approved by the Council:
      (1)   City Manager;
      (2)   City Treasurer; and
      (3)   Mayor and each Council member.
   (B)   The Council, by motion or resolution, may require other officers and
employees in such positions as it may designate to be bonded.
   (C)   The city shall pay the premiums on the bonds.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 8-105
CHAPTER 6: SOCIAL SECURITY
Section
   
2-601   Declaration of policy to come under coverage
   
2-602   Execution of agreement with state agency
   
2-603   Withholdings
   
2-604   Contributions
   
2-605   Records and reports
   
2-606   Exclusions
§2-601 DECLARATION OF POLICY TO COME UNDER COVERAGE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to
extend, at the earliest date, to the eligible employees and officials of the
city the benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors insurance as
authorized by the federal Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq.,
and all amendments thereto, and 51 O.S. §§ 121 et seq.
   (B)   In pursuance of this policy, the officers and employees of the city
shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws
or regulations.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 51 O.S. § 125
§2-602 EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT WITH STATE AGENCY.
   The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments with the State Department of Human Services to accomplish the
provisions of §
2-601.
§2-603 WITHHOLDINGS.
   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purposes provided in §
2-601 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may
be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations and shall be
paid over to the state or federal agency designated by the laws and
regulations.
§2-604 CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts appropriated for these
purposes from available funds to the designated state or federal agency in
accordance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
§2-605 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The city shall keep such records and submit such reports as may be required
by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
§2-606 EXCLUSIONS.
   Excluded from this chapter authorizing the extension of Social Security
benefits to city officers and employees are the following:
   (A)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official covered or authorized to be covered as of the initial
effective date of this chapter by any other ordinance creating any retirement
system for any employee or official of the city; or
   (B)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official engaged in rendering services of an emergency nature, or
any position, employee or official engaged in rendering services in part-time
positions, or any position, employee or official not authorized to be covered
by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
CHAPTER 7: RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
Section
Article A. Police Pension System
   
2-701   Police pension system
Article B. Firefighters’ Pension Fund
   
2-710   Firefighters’ pension and retirement system
Article C. Employee Retirement System
   
2-720   System established
   
2-721   Administration, Trustees
ARTICLE A. POLICE PENSION SYSTEM
§2-701 POLICE PENSION SYSTEM.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose and intention of the city to adopt
the police pension and retirement system as provided by the laws of the state.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 50-101 et seq., 50-106.3, 50-109 and 50-
110
ARTICLE B. FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND
§2-710 FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   There is hereby created a local Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement
Board composed of the Mayor, the Clerk, the Treasurer and three members from
the Fire Department. The Board shall have the membership, organization, powers,
duties and functions as prescribed by 11 O.S. §§ 49-103 et seq.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the purpose and intention of the city, by
this article, to adopt the firefighters’ pension system as provided by the laws
of the state.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 50-101 et seq., 50-106.3, 50-109 and 50-
110
ARTICLE C. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
§2-720 SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state, and for the
purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the part of city
employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby authorized,
created, established, approved and adopted, effective January 1, 1963, the
pension plan designated “employee retirement system” of the city (hereinafter
called “system”) and all amendments thereto. The provisions of the employee
retirement system, as adopted by ordinance, and all amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
§2-721 ADMINISTRATION, TRUSTEES.
   (A)   For the purpose of managing and administering the employee retirement
system, there is hereby created a Board of Trustees which shall be known as the
Board of Trustees of the employee retirement system.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall be composed of five members, of which two
department heads or employees shall be appointed by the City Council from the
various departments, and the members may be removed at any time by the City
Council. The City Clerk and Treasurer shall be a member of the Board and act as
Treasurer of the retirement system. The two other Board of Trustees members
shall be two other employees of the city who shall be elected in the manner
hereinafter provided.
CHAPTER 8: RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
   
2-801   Rules or order of procedure
   
2-802   Regular meetings
   
2-803   Special meetings
   
2-804   Quorum
   
2-805   Presiding officer
   
2-806   Meetings open to public
   
2-807   Agenda schedule
   
2-808   Order of business
   
2-809   Order of discussion of each agenda item
   
2-810   Rules of discussion
   
2-811   Motions
   
2-812   Voting
   
2-813   Robert’s Rules of Order to govern
   
2-814   Attendance
   
2-815   Minutes
   
2-816   Special committee
   
2-817   When public hearing required
   
2-818   Items previously voted on by Council
§2-801 RULES OR ORDER OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The rules or order of procedure herein contained shall govern
deliberations and meetings of the City Council and additionally shall govern
deliberations and meetings of the Public Utilities Authority.
   (B)   In all sections contained hereunder where it appears that where
procedures apply to the City Council all rules and regulations shall also apply
to the Public Utilities Authority.
§2-802 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Council/Board of Trustees shall be held at 5:15 p.m.
at the City Council chambers, 18 South 7th Street on the second and fourth
Tuesdays of the month; except when the fourth Tuesday is on December 23 through
26, the Council/Board of Trustees may, by resolution, reschedule, upon majority
vote of those members of the Council/Board of Trustees present. Any meeting of
the Council/Board of Trustees may extend until 12:00 a.m. of the day of the
meeting.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-803 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be held at the call of the Mayor or any three Council
members/Trustees on notice given at least 48 hours prior to the special
meeting. In the case of an emergency, an emergency meeting may be held on such
notice as may be reasonable and possible under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-804 QUORUM.
   A quorum authorized to conduct business shall consist of a majority of all
members elected to and constituting the Council. Less than a quorum may adjourn
from day to day.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-805 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The presiding officer for each meeting shall be the Mayor, or in his
or her absence, the Vice Mayor.
   (B)   If both the Mayor and Vice Mayor be absent, the Council/Board of
Trustees member most senior in service on the Council shall initially preside
for the purpose of calling the meeting to order the electing a presiding
officer who shall then preside over the remainder of the meeting.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-806 MEETINGS OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings, regular and special, shall be open to the public, and no
person shall be barred unless he or she is disorderly or refuses to obey the
order of the Mayor, who may order the Chief of Police or any attending police
officer to eject any such person.
   (B)   The Police Department shall have at least one officer present at each
Council meeting. The Council may meet in executive sessions only as authorized
by the City Charter and state statutes.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-807 AGENDA SCHEDULE.
   An agenda schedule for each meeting of the Council shall be prepared by the
City Manager to ensure that city business is conducted in an efficient manner.
This policy is designed to respect the time of those persons who come before
the Council through the normal procedure of placing items on the agenda. The
State Open Meeting Law, being 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq., shall be strictly adhered
to in conduct of the meetings and the agenda schedule. No item shall be voted
on by the Council without having been placed on the Council agenda unless it is
of an emergency nature and could not have been foreseen. To provide for timely
preparation and distribution of the agenda, all items must be submitted to the
City Manager’s office no later than 1:00 p.m. on the Thursday immediately
preceding the next Tuesday’s Council meeting.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-808 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business shall be as follows:
   (A)   Call to order;
   (B)   Invocation;
   (C)   Roll call;
   (D)   From the office of the Mayor. Items in this section shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Recognition of city employees for awards or honors;
      (2)   Recognition of distinguished visitors or groups such as Boy Scouts,
Allied Officers, DeMolays and the like; or
      (3)   Expression of condolence to families on demise of prominent
citizens, civic leaders and the like.
   (E)   Consent agenda:
      (1)   The Council/Board of Trustees shall act on all items in this
section by a single motion and roll call vote, subject to questions, discussion
or the right of any member to delete any item for individual action;
      (2)   Items on the consent agenda shall include, but not be limited to,
consideration of the following:
         (a)   Preliminary plans and authorization for preparation of final
plans and specifications;
         (b)   Change orders;
         (c)   Final plans and authorization for advertisement of bids;
         (d)   Acceptance of final plats and improvements;
         (e)   Easements, acceptance or dedication;
         (f)   Set dates for public hearings;
         (g)   Internal fund transfers requiring excise board approval or
supplemental appropriations;
         (h)   Acceptance of annual audit reports (various);
         (i)   Annual lease agreements;
         (j)   Acknowledge receipt of State Health Department permits
(various);
         (k)   Award bids and authorize contract execution;
         (l)   Reject bids and authorize readvertisement;
         (m)   Mayor’s appointments;
         (n)   Basic claims, payroll claims, longevity claims; or
         (o)   Council/Board of Trustees minutes.
   (F)   Council’s and citizens’ scheduled presentations:
      (1)   When a citizen contacts the Mayor or Council and requests to be on
the agenda for a specific presentation, the request must be relayed to the
Mayor’s or City Manager’s office prior to agenda deadline with citizen’s name,
address, subject of presentation and available background information.
      (2)   The Council shall have the option of voting on the item or
referring it to staff for additional information.
      (3)   Each presentation shall be listed on the agenda in this section by
name, address and subject. Time limits set out for audience participation will
apply;
   (G)   New business:
      (1)   In setting the order of items requiring individual action, the
Mayor shall give priority to:
         (a)   Public hearings;
         (b)   Matters that may attract a large number of interested citizens
to the meeting; or
         (c)   Other matters that may attract interested parties such as claims
recommended for denial.
   (H)   Audience participation:
      (1)   In compliance with the State Open Meeting Law, being 25 O.S. §§ 301
et seq., the Council/Board of Trustees shall not vote on items presented during
this section of the meeting;
      (2)   Each person shall have a maximum of three minutes to state his or
her business;
      (3)   Each subject shall have a maximum of 12 minutes; and
      (4)   After such time as the individual or the discussion of a particular
subject is completed, the Council/Board of Trustees shall recommend to the
individual or group as to what action they should take, i.e., refer the
situation to a particular department or person at the city offices or suggest
they place the item on a Council agenda;
   (I)   Executive session;
   (J)   Reports: Mayor, City Manager, Council/Board of Trustees:
      (1)   Reports by the Council/Board of Trustees should be limited to those
matters of general interest to the whole Council; or
      (2)   Routine reports that concern the interest of only the ward or an
isolated situation that does not affect other Council members/Trustees or areas
of the city should be processed through normal channels.
   (K)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-809 ORDER OF DISCUSSION OF EACH AGENDA ITEM.
   Discussion of each agenda item shall be in the following order.
   (A)   City Manager or city staff. After the Mayor calls the particular
agenda item for consideration, the City Manager or staff shall present any
matters in addition to the printed agenda commentary which may be pertinent to
the item.
   (B)   Public participation.
      (1)   During public hearings, citizens and interested parties may address
the Council/Board of Trustees as a matter of “right” subject to reasonable time
limitations to expedite Council business.
      (2)   On all other matters, public participation shall be at the
discretion of the Council.
   (C)   Council members. After the staff and public have presented their
views, the City Manager, Mayor and Council/Board of Trustees shall proceed to
discuss the merits of the issue; this portion of the discussion shall be
limited to the City Manager, Mayor and Council/Board of Trustees unless the
Mayor or Council/Board of Trustees determines additional information is needed
from the staff or public at that time.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-810 RULES OF DISCUSSION.
   Rules of discussion shall be as follows.
   (A)   No Council/Board of Trustees member shall speak without recognition
from the Mayor, and no member shall speak more than twice on a specific item
without permission of the Mayor.
   (B)   A person who is not a member of the Council shall not be allowed to
address the same without permission of the Mayor.
   (C)   Each person addressing the Council/Board of Trustees shall address his
or her remarks to the Council/Board of Trustees generally rather than to a
specific member.
   (D)   Discussions shall be limited to the matter presently before the
Council/Board of Trustees. Speakers shall confine their remarks to the merits
of the particular measure and avoid comments which would tend to embarrass
other persons or attack their motives.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-811 MOTIONS.
   After preliminary discussion of an agenda item, the Mayor shall call the
matter for determination by the Council/Board of Trustees.
   (A)   Main motion. Any member of the Council desiring to offer a motion on a
particular agenda item shall so indicate by raising his or her hand to obtain
the Mayor’s recognition.
   (B)   Seconding the motions. Members desiring to second motions shall so
indicate to the Mayor by raising their hands.
   (C)   Recognition for motions and seconds. To the extent reasonably
possible, the Mayor shall recognize Council/Board of Trustees members for the
offering and seconding of motions on an alternating basis so that all Council/
Board of Trustees members have an opportunity to offer and second main motions
during a meeting.
   (D)   Special courtesy. Where a matter is of special concern to a particular
Council/Board of Trustees member, he or she may prior to the beginning of the
meeting advise the Mayor of his or her desire to offer or second the motion on
that particular agenda item. Absent conflicting requests, the Mayor shall so
recognize the requesting member for the purpose of submitting the motion or
seconding. In the event of conflicting requests, the Mayor may recognize any
one of the requesting Council members if they are unable to resolve the
conflict among themselves.
   (E)   Typical motions.
      (1)   Main motion: “I move....”;
      (2)   Amendments:
         (a)   “I move to amend the motion by inserting between ... and ...”;
         (b)   “I move to amend the motion by adding after...”;
         (c)   “I move to amend the motion by striking out...”;
         (d)   “I move to amend the motion by striking out... and
inserting...”; and
         (e)   “I move to amend by striking out the motion and substituting the
following...”
      (3)   Committee: “I move that this motion be referred to a committee of
the Council/Board of Trustees for further consideration and report back to the
Council/Board of Trustees no later than.....”;
      (4)   Call for questions: “I move the previous question two-thirds vote
required; stops debate and order an immediate vote”;
      (5)   Table: “I move that this item be tabled indefinitely” (or to a date
certain);
      (6)   Award of contracts: “I move that the bid of ... be approved for
award, pending the signing of the contract and furnishing of required bonds,
and that the Mayor be authorized and directed to sign the contract for and on
behalf of the city”;
      (7)   Adoption of ordinance: “I move the adoption of ordinance no.      
entitled ... and that the reading of the ordinance be waived”;
      (8)   Adoption of resolution: “I move the adoption of a resolution
entitled...”;
      (9)   Claims: “I move that the Council/Board of Trustees approve/reject
the claim of ... (in the amount of ... )”; and
      (10)   Consent agenda: “I move the approval of the consent agenda items”.
   (F)   Lack of motion or second. If no member offers a motion on an agenda
item, the Mayor shall again call for motions; if no motion is presented after
the second calling, the Mayor shall declare the item fails for lack of motion.
Similarly, if no one seconds another member’s motion, the Mayor shall declare
that the motion fails for lack of a second;
   (G)   Debate of motions. Upon a motion having been offered and seconded, the
Mayor shall state the motion and submit it for further debate by the Council/
Board of Trustees if desired. Debate shall be limited to the merits of the
agenda item and addressed to the Mayor;
   (H)   Amendments to motions.
      (1)   Any time prior to the Mayor’s calling for vote of the Council/Board
of Trustees, a member may move to amend the motion, which shall require a
second. An amendment must be germane to the main motion;
      (2)   Two amendments can be made to any main motion, a primary amendment
and a secondary amendment. In order to avoid confusion, a third amendment shall
not be permitted. A Council/Board of Trustees member may, in the course of
debate on the secondary amendment announce that if the secondary amendment
fails, he or she intends to introduce another secondary amendment and may
briefly state the nature and content thereof.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-812 VOTING.
   (A)   (1)   After allowing a reasonable but not unduly lengthy time for
debate of the motion, the Mayor shall put the question to a vote. The Clerk
shall call the roll of Council members present and record each vote. Council
members may vote “yes,” “no” or “abstain.”
      (2)   Where a Council/Board of Trustees member has withdrawn from
consideration of an issue because of conflict of interest, he or she shall
“abstain.” The Mayor will announce the vote or he or she shall request the
Clerk to announce the vote.
      (3)   A Council/Board of Trustees member may change his or her vote only
before the results of the vote are announced by the Mayor.
   (B)   Amendments shall be voted on prior to the main motion, with secondary
amendments voted on prior to primary amendments.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-813 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER TO GOVERN.
   The latest revision of Robert’s Rule Of Order is incorporated into these
rules and shall govern all matters not specifically addressed in these rules.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-814 ATTENDANCE.
   The City Manager, Clerk, Attorney and Finance Director (or their assistants)
shall attend all regular and special meetings of the Council/Board of Trustees.
Attendance of other city personnel shall be required only when there are agenda
items which affect their particular responsibility.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-815 MINUTES.
   (A)   Minutes of each meeting of the Council/Board of Trustees shall be
prepared by the Clerk and submitted to a subsequent Council meeting for
approval.
   (B)   The minutes shall summarize the Council’s deliberations and record the
action of the Council on each item. The Clerk shall maintain a record of the
approved minutes.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-816 SPECIAL COMMITTEE.
   On his or her own determination, or on vote of the Council/Board of
Trustees, the Mayor may from time to time appoint a special committee, two
members (if more than two, must comply with Open Meeting Act, being 25 O.S.
§§ 301 et seq.,) of the Council, to investigate and study a particular matter
in depth and report to the Council/Board of Trustees its findings and
recommendations. Each committee shall consist of two members. If requested by
the special committee of the Council/Board of Trustees, the City Manager shall
appoint a member of the city’s staff to serve in a nonvoting capacity in order
to assist the committee. The committee’s report shall be submitted for such
actions as may be appropriate.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-817 WHEN PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   When an item appears on the City Council/Board of Trustees agenda
which requires three (four for bond issues) or more affirmative votes for
passage, and one or more members of the City Council/Board of Trustees are
absent from the meeting where the item is originally considered, if not
approved, such item shall be continued or rescheduled for a vote thereon at the
next regular meeting of the City Council.
   (B)   When the agenda item requires a public hearing, the Mayor shall recess
the public hearing and take a vote of the City Council/Board of Trustees.
Should the vote decide the issue, the Mayor shall close the public hearing and
announce the vote. Should the vote not decide the issue and the results be such
that the issue is to be continued, the Mayor shall continue the public hearing
to the next regular meeting of the City Council/Board of Trustees.
   (C)   An exception to the procedures established in this section shall be
allowed when an absent Council/Board of Trustees member requests that the
agenda item be returned to the Council/Board of Trustees agenda, with
concurrence of the Mayor, when the vote of the absent Council/Board of Trustees
member could alter the outcome of the issue.
   (D)   When the Mayor is absent and the question requires three affirmative
votes for passage and the vote is two to two, the item will be continued or
rescheduled for the next regular meeting of the City Council/Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987)
§2-818 ITEMS PREVIOUSLY VOTED ON BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   An item previously decided by the City Council may be placed on the
agenda as a new item of business under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The item is placed on the agenda by two or more Council members who
voted with the prevailing side by providing a signed letter to the City
Manager, if proposed for the next regularly scheduled meeting as provided in
division (A)(1)(b) below:
         (a)   In order to be reconsidered at the City Council meeting, a
motion and second to the motion must be made by members who voted with the
prevailing side. For the purpose of this division (A)(1)(a), PREVAILING SIDE is
defined as one who voted “aye” if the motion involved was adopted and “no” if
the motion was defeated; and
         (b)   A reconsideration can only be made at the same meeting of the
original adoption or defeat of the item, or the next following regularly
scheduled meeting. Special meetings are not included.
      (2)   Annually, when Council members have been sworn into office and the
item was voted on by the previous administration.
   (B)   This section shall not be applicable to the initiation, prosecution,
defense or settlement of litigation brought by or against the city, its
employees or agencies.
(Ord. 1267, passed 2-10-1987; Ord. 1662, passed 10-23-2007)
CHAPTER 9: AUDIT COMMITTEE
Section
   
2-901   Establishment
   
2-902   Approval of nominees
   
2-903   Term and replacement of members
   
2-904   Renomination
   
2-905   Functions
   
2-906   Meetings
   
2-907   Interference with fiscal responsibilities
§2-901 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Mayor shall nominate two individuals to serve on the City Audit
Committee. The Audit Committee, as appointed by the Mayor, shall consist of two
seated Council members. The Audit Committee shall elect an individual who will
act as Chairperson of the Committee and perform such administrative duties as
provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-26-1999)
§2-902 APPROVAL OF NOMINEES.
   Said nominees, as appointed by the Mayor, in accordance with §
2-901, shall be approved by a majority vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-26-1999)
§2-903 TERM AND REPLACEMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Audit Committee shall serve a term of two years
from the date of appointment or until such sooner time when said Council member
leaves office.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a Council member leaving office, the Mayor
shall immediately appoint a seated Council person to serve the remainder of the
term.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-26-1999)
§2-904 RENOMINATION.
   The Mayor, at his or her discretion, at the expiration of the term of any
Audit Committee member, may re-nominate a serving committee member for an
additional two-year term.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-26-1999)
§2-905 FUNCTIONS.
   The Audit Committee shall be established in order to provide the following
functions:
   (A)   To review applications submitted to the city by those individuals
desiring to conduct the annual audit for the city;
   (B)   To make recommendations to the Council in selection of qualified
certified public accountant or accountants who shall conduct an independent
audit of the accounts and evidence of financial transactions of the Department
of Finance and all other departments, offices and agencies, keeping separate or
subordinate accounts or making financial transactions as of the end of every
fiscal year;
   (C)   To act as a liaison between the selected auditor and the city;
   (D)   To review all audit results with the auditor, the City Manager and the
City Treasurer; and
   (E)   To make recommendations to the auditor which may provide for a more
expedient and efficient audit procedure.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-26-1999)
§2-906 MEETINGS.
   The Audit Committee will meet when deemed necessary or at the request of the
Chairperson of the Committee.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-26-1999)
§2-907 INTERFERENCE WITH FISCAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Audit Committee may not direct any action which shall interfere with the
fiscal responsibilities of the City Manager or City Treasurer as dictated by
Charter, statute or city ordinance.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-26-1999)
CHAPTER 10: TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
Section
   
2-1001   Commission established
   
2-1002   Appointment and terms
   
2-1003   Duties
§2-1001 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Telecommunications Commission consisting of
five members to be recommended by the Mayor. The City Council shall confirm the
Mayor’s recommendations. The Commissioners shall be appointed for overlapping
three-year terms and shall serve until their respective successors have been
appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 1330, passed - -1992)
§2-1002 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall assume their duties upon appointment. However,
at the time of initial appointment, the Mayor shall identify those Commission
seats which will first become vacant. The successor term of two Commissioners
first appointed shall begin at 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in May 1993, the
successor terms of two Commissioners first appointed shall begin at 7:30 p.m.
on the first Monday in May 1994, and the successor term of one Commissioner
first appointed shall begin at 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in May 1995:
   (B)   Each Commissioner shall then serve a term of three years;
   (C)   Every year, at a time prescribed for the beginning of the term of a
new member or members or as soon thereafter as practicable, the Commission
shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. The Commission shall determine
the time and place of its regular meeting. The Mayor, the Chairperson or any
three members may call a special meeting;
   (D)   The manner of conducting business shall be determined by the members.
However, the Commission shall at all times comply with the guidelines of the
Open Meeting Act, being 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq., even if not required by state
law;
   (E)   The Mayor may remove members for the good of the city and fill
vacancies for unexpired terms; and
   (F)   The City Clerk or his or her designated representative will take the
minutes of all meetings.
(Ord. 1330, passed - -1992)
§2-1003 DUTIES.
   The Telecommunications Commission shall identify, review and assess the
telecommunication needs for the city. The Commission shall become familiar with
federal and state rules, regulations and laws which govern telecommunications.
In addition, the Commission shall monitor those individuals, companies,
partnerships or corporations which are grantees named in a nonexclusive cable
franchise or permit to ensure compliance with the franchise or permit. The
Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council on all matters
dealing with telecommunications such as, but not limited to, control,
maintenance, improvements, operations, compliance with permits, rates as
permitted by law and renewal of existing permits.
(Ord. 1330, passed - -1992)
CHAPTER 11: GRANT ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
2-1101   CDBG-EDIF job tracking
§2-1101 CDBG-EDIF JOB TRACKING.
   If the city is at any time a recipient of funds, either as a grant, loan or
combination of grant and loan, from the program available through the State
Department of Commerce and identified as the community development block grant/
economic development infrastructure financing (CDBG-EDIF) program, the city
shall require that any entity or beneficiary using the CDBG-EDIF funded
infrastructure improvements must agree to provide job tracking data as a
condition of using the improvements. The job tracking data must be provided for
a period of time starting with the date the state awards the CDBG-EDIF funds to
the city and will end one year after the physical completion of the public
improvements.
(Ord. 1482, passed 3-23-1999)
   Duncan - Alcoholic Beverages
PART 3: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Chapter
   
1.    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
2.    LOW POINT BEER
CHAPTER 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-101   Purposes of chapter
   
3-102   Terms and phrases
   
3-103   License fees
   
3-104   When due and posting
   
3-105   Payment required
   
3-106   Civil penalty
   
3-107   Application for certificate; investigations
   
3-108   Issuance of certificate of zoning and certificate of compliance
   
3-109   Condition of sale
   
3-110   Consumption prohibited, where
   
3-111   Compliance required
   
3-112   Compliance with zoning regulations required
   
3-113   Prohibited location
   
3-114   Prohibited sales
   
3-115   Transporting beverages
   
3-116   Prohibited employment
   
3-117   Hours for selling alcoholic beverages
   
3-118   Intoxication in public place prohibited
   
3-119   Not to permit intoxicated person in café, club
   
3-120   Penalty
   
3-121   Gatherings where minors are consuming alcoholic beverages
   
3-122   Alcohol occupational tax
   
3-123   Definitions
   
3-124   Brewery or brewpub hours of operation
   
3-125   Mixed beverage, beer or wine hours of operation
   
3-126   Employment
   
3-127   Mixed beverage or beer and wine certificate of compliance
   
3-128   Retail establishment occupational tax
   
3-129   Retail spirits, retail beer and retail wine certificate of compliance
§3-101 PURPOSES OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the city to
preserve the public peace, safety, health and good order thereof, and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state as established by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37 O.S. §§ 501 et seq., and to establish annual
license fees upon all licenses issued to persons engaged in the manufacture,
sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
§3-102 TERMS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions, and those
defined by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOTTLE CLUB. Any establishment in a county which has not authorized the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the individual drink, which is required
to be licensed to keep, mix and serve alcoholic beverages belonging to club
members on club premises.
   MINOR. A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained the
age at which consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted.
   PACKAGE STORE. Any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to sell
wine, beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a
grocery store, convenience store or drug store, or other retail outlet that is
not permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premises consumption.
   STATE LICENSEE. Any person who holds a license issued under authority of the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
(Ord. 1875, passed 4-22-2025)
§3-103 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed an annual fee not to exceed the amounts
indicated below upon the occupations named. Said licenses shall entitle the
holder of same to all the rights and privileges provided by municipal ordinance
as well as the state.
Beer distributor (effective October 1, 2018) per year $500
Beer and wine                                         $500 initial
                                                      $450 renewal
Bottle club                                           $1,000 initial
                                                      $900 renewal
Brewer, per year                                      $1,250
Brewpub, if licensee also holds a mixed beverage or   $50
wine and beer permit, per year
Brewpub, per year                                     $1,000
Caterer                                               $1,005 initial
                                                      $900 renewal
Class B wholesaler                                    $625
Class I beer license (available and effective only    $20
through September 30, 2018)
Class II beer license (available and effective only   $10
through September 30, 2018)
Distiller                                             $3,125
Mixed beverage                                        $1,005 initial
                                                      $905 renewal
Mixed beverage/caterer combination                    $1,250
                                                      $1,250 renewals, per year
Package store                                         $905
Rectifier                                             $3,125
Retail beer (effective beginning October 1, 2018)     $500
Retail spirits (effective beginning October 1, 2018)  $900
Retail wine (effective beginning October 1, 2018)     $1,000
Special event, per day                                $55
State brewer                                          $125
State winemaker                                       $75
Wholesaler                                            $3,500
Wine and spirits wholesaler (effective October 1,     $2,000
2018) per year
Winemaker                                             $625
 
   (B)   The fees prescribed herein shall be reduced or prorated to the extent
necessary to conform to applicable laws respecting the applicants or holders of
state licenses.
   (C)   The license fee for those service organizations which are exempt under
I.R.C. § 501(c)(19) for mixed beverage or bottle club licenses shall be $500
per year.
   (D)   The holder of a valid certificate for a bottle club may convert such
certificate to a mixed beverage certificate at any time prior to its expiration
upon presentation of a state license to operate a mixed beverage business in
the same location as the previously licensed and taxed bottle club.
(Ord. 1259, passed 9-23-1986; Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 518
§3-104 WHEN DUE AND POSTING.
   (A)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the license fee therefor at the office of the City Treasurer
on or before the date upon which he or she enters upon such occupation. The
licensee shall provide a copy of his or her current state license before
payment of a license fee will be accepted. All license fees shall expire on
June 30 of each year.
   (B)   Any state licensee carrying on his or her occupation in more than one
location within the city limits shall be subject to the fee set out for each
such location.
   (C)   Upon payment of the license fee as set out, the City Treasurer shall
issue a receipt to the state licensee which licensee shall post in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she carries on his or her
occupation. The City Treasurer shall also record the name of such licensee and
the address where he or she engages in his or her occupation and such records
shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files of that office for at least
three years. Thereafter, upon approval of the City Council, the records may be
destroyed.
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall make and transmit to the State Alcoholic
Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission an annual report covering the
fiscal year showing the number and class of businesses upon which license fees
were imposed and the amount of money collected from such fees.
§3-105 PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   Any person who engages in any of the licensed activities regulated by this
chapter without first paying the license fee imposed therefor in advance of
such operation is guilty of an offense against the city and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108. A penalty may be levied upon any person not paying the fee within 15
days after it is due.
§3-106 CIVIL PENALTY.
   All sums due from any person, firm or corporation by reason of licensing
fees imposed by this chapter shall be recoverable at the suit of the city
brought against such person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In such
suit, in addition to the fee, the city shall be allowed to recover interest at
the maximum allowable rate permitted by state law upon all sums due by way of
fee, from the date of accrual thereof, any penalty, and all costs of
collection, judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
Prosecution for an offense against the city arising out of the failure to pay a
fee levied by this chapter, regardless of the outcome or its continued
pendency, shall not constitute a defense or a bar in any manner to the
collection of any fees and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided.
§3-107 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning, fire,
health and safety codes of the city required by 37 O.S. shall apply at the
office of the Clerk by:
      (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
      (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as set by
the Council at the time of filing.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
city shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the premises
proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of the zoning
ordinance and any health, fire, building and other safety codes applicable to
it.
   (C)   The city shall act on all such applications within 20 days of receipt
thereof.
§3-108 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ZONING AND CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is in
compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning shall
be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is in
compliance with all applicable fire, safety and health codes, a certificate of
compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   (C)   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the City
Manager.
   (D)   A conditional certificate may be granted if construction, modification
or alteration of the premises proposed for licensed operations is not
completed. The conditional certificate shall indicate that the proposed
premises will comply with city zoning, fire, safety and health codes. A
certificate in accordance with divisions (A) and (B) above shall be issued
within ten days after all final inspections are complete.
§3-109 CONDITION OF SALE.
   (A)   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages out of any retail
alcoholic beverage store other than:
      (1)   In retail containers;
      (2)   At ordinary room temperatures;
      (3)   In the original package; and
      (4)   For consumption off the premises.
   (B)   No person owning, employed in or in any manner assisting in the
maintenance and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic
beverage to be consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be opened
on the premises of such a store.
§3-110 CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED, WHERE.
   No person shall drink or consume in any manner any alcoholic beverage on the
premises of a retail alcoholic beverage package store, nor in any other public
place. Neither shall a person open or break the seal of any original package or
retail container containing alcoholic beverages on the premises of any such
retail beverage store.
§3-111 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell at retail or otherwise, and no person shall deliver, in
consequence of or in completion of such a sale, any alcoholic beverages at any
place in the city except at a retail alcoholic beverage store in strict
conformity with this chapter and the laws of the state.
§3-112 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No retail alcoholic beverage package store, no bottle club and no
wholesale alcoholic beverage store, warehouse, brewery, distillery, winery or
any other place, however described, and for the manufacture or production or
bottling of alcoholic beverages of any kind, shall be located, maintained or
operated by any person, at any place within the boundaries of the city except
at a location at which such an establishment is permitted or authorized by the
zoning ordinances of the city.
   (B)   No person shall own, operate, maintain or be interested in any retail
alcoholic beverage store which is located at a place within the city limits
which is in violation of or forbidden as a location by the city or under the
laws of the state.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 534
§3-113 PROHIBITED LOCATION.
   The location of a retail package store, mixed beverage establishment or
bottle club is specifically prohibited within three hundred feet (300) feet
from any church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and
religious activities, or public school. If any such church or school, shall be
established within 300 feet of any licensed premises after such premises have
been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such license so long
as there has not been a lapse of more than sixty (60) days. The distance
indicated in this section shall be measured from the nearest property line of
such church or school to the nearest perimeter wall of the premises of such
package store, mixed beverage establishment or bottle club. A church may waive
the three hundred foot (300') requirement by providing written notice to the
establishment seeking the license and to the ABLE commission. Provided a church
prior to waiving the three hundred foot (300') requirement found in this
subsection shall publish a notice of its intention to waive such requirement in
a legal newspaper of general circulation within the state at least thirty (30)
days but no more than forty (40) days prior to providing any written notice,
waiving the three hundred foot (300') requirement, to the establishment seeking
the license or the ABLE commission.
(Ord. 1875, passed 4-22-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 518.3
§3-114 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic
beverages, at any place within the city limits to any person who is a minor.
Neither shall any minor misrepresent his or her age verbally or in writing, or
present false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of inducing any
other person to sell him or her alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No person shall sell, deliver or knowingly furnish alcoholic beverage
or beverages within the city to an intoxicated person or to any person who has
been adjudged insane or mentally deficient.
§3-115 TRANSPORTING BEVERAGES.
   No person shall knowingly transport in any vehicle upon a public highway,
street or alley any alcoholic beverage except in the original container which
shall not have been opened and the seal upon which shall not have been broken
and from which the original cap or cork shall not have been removed, unless the
opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include
the spare tire compartment in a vehicle commonly known as a station wagon and
panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver
or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
§3-116 PROHIBITED EMPLOYMENT.
   No minor shall be employed in the selling, manufacture, distribution or
other handling of alcoholic beverages at any place within the city. No person
shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of any minor at any
place within the city in the selling, manufacture, distribution or other
handling of alcoholic beverages. No minor shall be permitted to remain within
or to loiter about the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store. Violation
of this provision shall subject the owner or proprietor, as well as the
underage person, to prosecution.
§3-117 HOURS FOR SELLING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Retail spirits stores.
      (1)   Now and through September 30, 2018, no person shall open or operate
a retail spirits store except between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
Effective October 1, 2018, retail spirits stores will be permitted to remain
open and operational from 8:00 a.m. through 12:00 a.m.
      (2)   Further, no person shall open or operate a retail spirits store at
any time on Sunday of any week, on New Year’s Day, Thanksgiving Day or
Christmas Day.
   (B)   Wholesale dealers. No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no
officer, agent or employee of such a dealer shall sell or deliver to any retail
alcoholic beverage store within the city any amount of spirits or wines on
Sunday of any week, on New Year’s Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
   (C)   Retail beer or retail wine stores. Effective October 1, 2018, a retail
wine or retail beer establishment may offer wine or beer for retail sale on
Monday through Sunday between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. the
following day.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
§3-118 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC PLACE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall be in any public place in a state of intoxication.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a STATE OF INTOXICATION means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of drugs, intoxicating
liquors or low point beer to such an extent as to deprive the person of his or
her full mental or physical power or be unable to exercise care for his or her
own safety or the safety of others.
§3-119 NOT TO PERMIT INTOXICATED PERSON IN CAFÉ, CLUB.
   No person operating a café, restaurant, club or any place of recreation
within this city, and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of
such a café, restaurant, club or place of recreation shall permit any person to
be drunk or intoxicated in the place of business.
§3-120 PENALTY.
   Any and each violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is an
offense against the city and, upon conviction of such an offense, the violator
shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
§3-121 GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
         (b)   This term includes intoxicating beverages and LOW POINT BEER as
defined herein.
      GATHERING. A party, gathering or event, where a group of three or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
      INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Includes beverages containing more than 3.2%
alcohol by weight.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
the court.
      LOW POINT BEER. Includes beverages containing more than 0.5% of alcohol
by volume, and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including, but not limited
to, beer or cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an
infusion of barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
      MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent
or stepparent of another person.
      PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
      RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire
or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding
to, remaining at or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributable to such response(s);
         (b)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at or leaving the scene of a gathering;
         (c)   The cost of repairing any city equipment or property damaged,
and the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at
or leaving the scene of a gathering; and
         (d)   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
section.
   (B)   Consumption of alcohol by minor. Except as permitted by state law, it
is unlawful for any minor to consume at any public place or any place open to
the public any alcoholic beverage; or consume at any place not open to the
public any alcoholic beverage, unless in connection with the consumption of the
alcoholic beverage that minor is being supervised by his or her parent or legal
guardian.
   (C)   Hosting, permitting or allowing a gathering prohibited.
      (1)   (a)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises,
who knowingly hosts, permits or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering.
         (b)   Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic beverages
at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at
the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering by
inspecting drivers’ licenses or other government issued identification cards to
ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the gathering;
and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
         (c)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (C)(1)(a) above.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      (3)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
family activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use
of alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a non-family gathering.
      (4)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public,
then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
      (5)   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state
to dispense alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished for violation of an offense, with fine not to exceed
$500, or by imprisonment not exceeding 60 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, plus all court costs and statutory penalties, as set forth in §
1-108 (B).
   (E)   Reservation of legal options. Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the city criminally, civilly and/or administratively as provided
by this code.
      (1)   The city may seek administrative fees and response costs associated
with enforcement of this section through all remedies or procedures provided by
statute, ordinance or law.
      (2)   This section shall not limit the authority of peace officers or
private citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of
conduct regulated by this section, nor shall they limit the city’s ability to
initiate and prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same
circumstances necessitating the application of this section.
   (F)   Local authority. This section shall not apply where prohibited or
preempted by state or federal law.
(Ord. 1661, passed 10-23-2007)
§3-122 ALCOHOL OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   No person shall operate or maintain a brewery or brewpub without
having previously paid the occupational tax as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall operate or maintain any business serving mixed
beverages or beer or wine without having previously paid the occupational tax
as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
§3-123 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BREWER. Any person who manufacturers for human consumption by the use of raw
materials or other ingredients any beer upon which an occupational tax is
imposed.
   BREWPUB. A licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on
premises located contiguous to, a small brewery, which prepares and serves food
and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
   CLASS I BEER LICENSE.
      (1)   A license for the retail sale of a beverage containing more than
0.5% alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, sold for
consumption on the premises, or sold not in the original containers for
consumption on or off the premises.
      (2)   CLASS I BEER LICENSES are only available and effective through
September 30, 2018.
   CLASS II BEER LICENSE.
      (1)   A license for the retail sale of a beverage containing more than
0.5% alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, sold in the
original containers for consumption off the premises.
      (2)   CLASS II BEER LICENSES are only available and effective through
September 30, 2018.
   MIXED BEVERAGE/CATERER. An occupational tax permit for sale of mixed
beverages as specifically provided by state law for the holder of a mixed
beverage license or a caterer license.
   ON-PREMISES BEER AND WINE. An occupational tax permit for the retail sale of
beer containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight and wine which means and
includes any beverage containing more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not
more than 24% alcohol by volume. Effective October 1, 2018, this occupational
tax permit will apply to the sale of both low point and strong beer, as those
terms are defined in 37A O.S. § 1-103.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
§3-124 BREWERY OR BREWPUB HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No brewery or brewpub to which the brewery or brewpub occupational tax is
applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of such establishment shall
sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any beer on the premises between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
§3-125 MIXED BEVERAGE, BEER OR WINE HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No establishment to which the mixed beverage or on-premises beer and
wine occupational tax is applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of such
establishment shall sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any mixed
beverages, beer or wine on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m.
   (B)   Elective through September 30, 2018, no person who holds a Class I
beer license, nor any agent, servant or employee of said licensee, shall sell,
dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any low-point beer on the premises
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and
between 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (C)   Effective through September 30, 2018, and except as herein provided,
no person who owns, manages or operates any business serving mixed beverages,
beer or wine or a Class I establishment zones as a bar, club or tavern licensed
under the authority of this chapter shall permit any person to remain on the
premises past the applicable closing time; provided, that a maximum of eight
persons shall be permitted to remain for two hours past the applicable closing
time, so long as they are employed by the business serving mixed beverages,
beer or wine or the Class I establishment and are involved in cleaning, closing
or otherwise securing the premises.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
§3-126 EMPLOYMENT.
   No person shall employ any person under 18 years of age in the selling of
beer or wine or employ any person under 21 years of age in the selling of
spirits. Provided:
   (A)   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special event,
bottle club, retail wine or retail beer licensee may employ servers or
salesclerks who are at least 18 years of age, except persons under 21 years of
age may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas; and
   (B)   A mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special event
or bottle club licensee may employ or hire musical bands who have musicians who
are under 18 years of age if each such musician is either accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian or has on his or her person, to be made available for
inspection upon demand by any employee of the ABLE Commission or law
enforcement officer, a written, notarized affidavit from the parent or legal
guardian giving the underage musician permission to perform in designated bar
or lounge areas.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
§3-127 MIXED BEVERAGE OR BEER AND WINE CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   A mixed beverage or beer and wine certificate of compliance, on forms
furnished by the city, shall be completed by every applicant for an original
license pursuant to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§
1-101 et seq.
   (B)   This certificate shall be reviewed and approved by the following city
departments.
      (1)   The applicant’s proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all municipal zoning ordinances, verified by the Director of Planning and
Community Development, or his or her designee.
      (2)   The applicant’s proposed site and structure must comply with all
Building Codes as required by this code, verified by the Director of Planning
and Community Development, or his or her designee.
      (3)   The applicant’s proposed site, structure and location must comply
with all Fire Code requirements required by this code, verified by the fire
inspector for the city or his or her designee.
      (4)   The applicant’s proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all provisions regarding food service requirements as required by this code,
verified by the County Health Department inspector or his or her designee.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
§3-128 RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   No person shall operate, manage or work in any retail establishment that
sells, for off-premises consumption only, any type of alcoholic beverage, as
that term is found in 37 O.S. § 506 through September 30, 2018, and as found in
37A O.S. § 1-103 thereafter without having previously obtained an occupational
tax permit for that store as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
§3-129 RETAIL SPIRITS, RETAIL BEER AND RETAIL WINE CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   A retail spirits, retail beer and retail wine certificate of
compliance, on forms furnished by the city, shall be completed by every
applicant for an original license pursuant to the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
   (B)   This certificate shall be reviewed and approved by the following city
departments.
      (1)   The applicant’s proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all municipal zoning ordinances, verified by the Director of Planning and
Community Development, or his or her designee.
      (2)   The applicant’s proposed site and structure must comply with all
Building Codes as required by this code, verified by the Director of Planning
and Community Development, or his or her designee.
      (3)   The applicant’s proposed site, structure and location must comply
with all Fire Code requirements required by this code, verified by the fire
inspector for the city or his or her designee.
      (4)   The applicant’s proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all provisions regarding food service requirements as required by this code,
verified by the County Health Department inspector or his or her designee.
(Ord. 1782, passed 7-24-2018)
CHAPTER 2: LOW POINT BEER
Section
   
3-201   Definitions
   
3-202   Hours of sale
   
3-203   License fees
   
3-204   License required
   
3-205   Not to sell to minors
   
3-206   Possession, consumption by minors
   
3-207   Persons under eighteen not to be employed
   
3-208   Not to permit minors to frequent bars, exceptions
   
3-209   Misrepresenting age
   
3-210   Not to furnish or sell to intoxicated persons
   
3-211   Intoxicating liquors not allowed on premises
   
3-212   Unlawful transportation of low point beer
   
3-213   Prohibited location
   
3-214   Penalty
§3-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOW POINT BEER. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume
and less than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   MINOR. A person who, according to state law, has not yet attained the age at
which consumption of low point beer is permitted under state law.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Each separate location or service unit in which or from
which low point beer is sold, delivered or otherwise furnished.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person who sells any “low point beer” as defined herein
for consumption or use and not for resale.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. §§ 163.1 et seq.
§3-202 HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to sell beverages containing
more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight
to sell, dispense or serve such beverages for consumption on the premises
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. or allow such beverages to be
consumed on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. excepting
Saturday nights when such beverages may not be sold, dispensed, served or
consumed on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on
Sundays.
(Ord. 1249, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 213
§3-203 LICENSE FEES.
   There is hereby levied on each retail dealer in low point beer within the
city selling such low point beer for consumption on or off the premises of the
dealer’s place of business, a license fee of $20 per annum, and on each retail
dealer selling such low point beer exclusively in original packages (of not
less than case lots) and not for consumption on his or her premises, a license
fee of $10 per annum. A separate license fee shall be paid for each place of
business, as herein defined, operated and conducted by the retail dealer.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 163.7
§3-204 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to sell, distribute or
dispense within the city any low point beer to the public for consumption or
use without first having obtained a license therefor from the City Treasurer.
Every person desiring to engage in business as a retail dealer in low point
beer or to continue in the business within the city shall make application to
the City Treasurer on forms to be provided, setting forth the locations of the
business, together with the applicant’s address, and if a corporation, the name
of the president and managing officer. The application shall show the date and
permit number of the permits issued by the district court judge and the State
Tax Commission as required by law.
   (B)   (1)   Upon a showing that the applicant has obtained his or her
permits from the district court judge and the State Tax Commission and after
payment of the license fee to the city such license shall be issued forthwith.
      (2)   All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. Licenses issued
hereunder shall not be assignable or transferable, and the fee shall not be
prorated for part of the year.
      (3)   The city license shall be displayed in the licensee’s place of
business. The license may be canceled for any violation of the laws of the
state for which the licensee’s county or state license may be canceled, and in
a similar manner.
§3-205 NOT TO SELL TO MINORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer, give away, procure for,
furnish, barter or otherwise dispense to any minor any low point beer, or for
any minor to purchase, receive or procure any low point beer.
(Ord. 1211, passed 9-27-1983)
§3-206 POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION BY MINORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, POSSESSION shall consist of actual
physical possession and shall further include any low point beer accessible or
within the range of reach of hands of any such person.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a minor to consume or be in possession of any low
point beer while such person is upon any public street, avenue, alley, road,
highway or public building or place or on any city owned property.
(Ord. 1211, passed 9-27-1983)
§3-207 PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN NOT TO BE EMPLOYED.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any owner, manager, operator or employee of a
place where low point beer is sold for consumption on the premises to employ a
person under 18 years of age to work in such place; or for any person under 18
years of age to work in such place.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any licensed premises where
sales of low point beer do not exceed 25% of the gross sales of the licensee.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any minor to be employed or permitted to work
in any capacity whatsoever in the separate or enclosed bar area of a place
where the main purpose of the area is the sale or consumption of low point
beer.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to any area which has as its main
purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of low point beer, in
which sales or serving of low point beer is incidental to the main purpose.
(Ord. 1211, passed 9-27-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 243
§3-208 NOT TO PERMIT MINORS TO FREQUENT BARS, EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The owner of any bar, beer hall, tavern or other place wherein any low
point beer is dispensed for consumption on the premises shall not permit any
minor to be admitted to, enter or to remain in a separate enclosed bar area of
the licensed premises which has as its main purpose the selling or serving of
low point beer for consumption on the premises unless the person’s legal
guardian or parent is present, nor shall any minor enter or remain about such
separate or enclosed bar area.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit minors from being admitted to,
entering or remaining in an area which has as its main purpose some objective
other than the sale or serving of low point beer, in which sales or serving of
low point beer is incidental to the main purpose, if the minors are not sold or
served or do not consume low point beer.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. §§ 241 and 246
§3-209 MISREPRESENTING AGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to misrepresent his or her age to any retail
dealer, as herein defined, for the purpose of obtaining, or attempting to
obtain any low point beer, as herein defined, for consumption upon the premises
of such retail dealers.
§3-210 NOT TO FURNISH OR SELL TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No holder of a retail license or permit to sell low point beer, or an
employee or agent of a holder of such a license or permit, shall knowingly,
willfully and wantonly sell, deliver or furnish low point beer or any other
alcohol to an intoxicated person.
§3-211 INTOXICATING LIQUORS NOT ALLOWED ON PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation engaged in the retail
sale of any low point beer to allow any person or persons to drink on the
premises where such beverages are sold or offered for sale, any wine, whiskey,
brandy or other alcoholic beverages.
§3-212 UNLAWFUL TRANSPORTATION OF LOW POINT BEER.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to transport in any moving vehicle
upon a public street or alley, or any public way within this city any low point
beer unless it is:
   (A)   In the original container, which shall not have been opened and from
which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed; or
   (B)   If it is in an opened container, the opened container is in the rear
trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a
station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or to any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
§3-213 PROHIBITED LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any place which has received a permit
or which has been licensed to sell low point beer and which has as its main
purpose the selling or serving of low point beer for consumption on the
premises to be located within 300 feet of any public or private school or
church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities.
      (2)   The distance indicated in this division (A) shall be measured from
the nearest property line of the public or private school or church to the
nearest perimeter wall of the premises of the place which has received a permit
or which has been licensed to sell low point beer. These restrictions shall not
apply to places which have received a permit previously.
   (B)   If any school or church shall be established within 300 feet of any
place subject to the provisions of division (A) above after the place has
received a permit or been licensed, the provisions herein shall not be a
deterrent to the renewal of the permit or license if there has not been a lapse
of more than 60 days.
   (C)   When any place subject to the provisions of this section which has a
permit or license to sell low point beer for on-premises consumption changes
ownership or the operator thereof is changed, and the change results in the
same type of business being conducted on the premises, the provisions of this
section shall not be a deterrent to the issuance of a license or permit to the
new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise qualified.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 163-24
§3-214 PENALTY.
   Any and each violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is an
offense against the city and, upon conviction of such an offense, the violator
shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
PART 4: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
1.    GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
2.    ANIMAL CONTROL
   
3.    MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
   
4.    DOGS AND CATS
   
5.    WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS
   
6.    CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
   
7.    BIRD SANCTUARY
   
8.    ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND FEES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
4-101   Related laws; compliance required
   
4-102   Definitions
   
4-103   Exemptions
§4-101 RELATED LAWS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person owning or having in his or her custody any animal shall
violate any laws, rules or regulations of the state applicable thereto. Where
provisions of the laws, rules or regulations of the state are less restrictive
than the provisions of this code, the latter shall govern.
   (B)   Nothing in this part shall be construed to permit any person to
possess, keep or maintain any animal in violation of the zoning ordinances or
any other ordinance of the city.
   (C)   No outdoor quadrupeds or bipeds, except dogs and cats, shall be kept
without prior approval of the Board of Adjustment as a special use permit
pursuant to the provisions of the city’s zoning regulations. Provided, however,
no such approval shall be granted for any vicious animal, as defined in §
4-102.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. The voluntary relinquishment of an animal with no intention to
retain possession and shall include, but shall not be limited to, vacating a
premises and leaving the animal in or at the premises, or failing to feed the
animal or allowing it to stray or wander onto private or public property with
the intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said animal.
   ANIMAL. Any living vertebrate creature, wild or domestic, except humans.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person, firm or agency appointed or designated
by the City Manager for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this part
and shall include, without limitation, police officers, code enforcement
officers and other employees of the city.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society, the city or its
authorized agent, for the purpose of impounding animals under the authority of
this part or state law for care, confinement, return to the owner, adoption or
euthanasia.
   AT LARGE OR RUNNING AT LARGE. Refers to the condition of any animal that is
neither enclosed within a building, fence or other enclosure of sufficient
strength and construction to restrain and keep the animal within the building,
fence or other enclosure, nor securely restrained and under the physical
control of a competent person by a leash or harness with handhold.
   CONFINED/CONFINEMENT. Being locked up, constrained or isolated.
   CURRENTLY VACCINATED. Properly immunized by or under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian with a vaccine licensed and approved by the United States
Department of Agriculture for use in that animal species. Vaccine must have
been given at appropriate time interval(s) for the age of the animal and type
of vaccine administered.
   DISPOSED OF. Refers to euthanizing, adopting out or transferring to another.
   EUTHANIZE. The humane killing of an animal generally performed by a licensed
veterinarian, or personnel at an animal control facility that maintains a
current “Certified Animal Euthanasia Technician” certificate.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. A bite or physical contact with the saliva or other
potentially infectious tissues from an animal confirmed or suspected of being
infected with rabies.
   FIRST PARTY OWNERSHIP. A situation where the owner of a biting animal is
directly related to the bite victim, that is parent-child, sibling-sibling,
grandparent-child and the legal residence of the animal owner and the bite
victim are the same.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of the County Health Department or his or her
authorized agent and shall also include any city code enforcement officer or
animal control officer.
   IMPOUNDMENT. Placing an animal in the animal control vehicle or unit; taking
an animal into custody by physical control, trapping or other means; or holding
an animal in custody at the animal shelter or its authorized agent.
   KENNEL. Includes a cattery and means any premises wherein a person, firm or
corporation engages in the business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for
hire, training for a fee or selling dogs or cats. The definition of a KENNEL
shall exclude persons or household members who own one dog and/or one cat for
breeding purposes for personal ownership and/or sale of puppies and/or kittens.
   LARGE ANIMALS. Horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep or other animals
of similar size or stature.
   NEUTERED MALE. Refers to any male dog or cat which has been operated upon by
a veterinarian to render the animal sterile and unable to impregnate a female
animal.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, keeping, possessing,
harboring or having the care or custody of an animal and shall include all
persons having joint or collective care or custody of the animal. The occupant
of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains, or to which it
customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more, shall be deemed to be
harboring or keeping the animal.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, association, firm, partnership or
organization or corporation.
   PET SHOP. Every place or premises where birds, mammals, fish or reptiles are
kept for the purpose of sale, at either wholesale or retail, import, export,
barter or exchange as pets.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   While on the owner’s property, a vicious animal shall be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure with at
least 150 square feet of space for each dog kept therein which is over six
months of age, and which is suitable to prevent the entry of children and
designed to prevent the animal from escaping.
      (2)   Such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top and
shall also provide protection from the elements for the animal(s).
   PROVOKE OR PROVOCATION. With respect to an attack by an animal, that the
animal was hit, kicked or struck by a person with an object or part of the
person’s body or that any part of the animal’s body is pulled, pinched or
squeezed by a person.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Chase, frighten or otherwise intimidate passersby or passing
vehicles;
      (2)   Attack other animals;
      (3)   Trespass;
      (4)   Are repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damage private or public property; or
      (6)   Bark, whine, scratch, howl or make excessive noise in continuous or
untimely fashion.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is controlled by leash or tether, either of which shall
not exceed six feet in length except for retractable leashes which can be
controlled to prevent the animal from extending the leash to another person, by
a competent person or within a vehicle, trailer or other conveyance being
driven, pulled or parked on the street, or confined within the property limits
of its owner or keeper.
   SHELTER. A structure designed to keep the animal dry and protected from the
elements. Such SHELTER shall be fully enclosed on three sides, roofed and have
a solid floor. The entrance to the shelter shall be sufficiently flexible to
allow the animal’s entry and exit, and sturdy enough to block the entry of wind
or rain. The SHELTER shall be small enough to retain the animal’s body heat and
large enough to allow the animal to stand and turn comfortably. The SHELTER
shall be structurally sound and in good repair.
   SMALL ANIMAL. Dogs, cats, rabbits and ferrets but not birds or fowl.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female dog or cat which has had its ovaries surgically
removed by a veterinarian.
   STERILIZE (AND ANY OF ITS DERIVATIVES). The surgical alteration of an animal
through spaying or neutering so that it is incapable of reproduction.
   VACCINATION. An injection of U.S. Department of Agriculture approved rabies
vaccine administered by a veterinarian.
   VETERINARIAN. A person who holds an active license to practice veterinary
medicine in the state.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal which:
      (1)   Has bitten, or attempted to bite, any person or animal without
undue provocation, or which attacks or barks or growls at and acts as if it
intends to attack or bite, or bites a person, persons or animal, when not
unduly provoked;
      (2)   Has behaved in such a manner that the owner thereof knows or should
reasonably know that the animal has tendencies to attack or bite human beings
or other animals;
      (3)   Is certified by a doctor of veterinary medicine, after observation
thereof, as posing a danger to human life, animal life or property upon the
basis of a reasonable medical probability;
      (4)   Commits an attack on a person or animal without provocation; or
      (5)   Is ordered by the owner or any other person(s) to attack and does
so causing fear or injury.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003; Ord. 1695, passed 2-
8-2011; Ord. 1837, passed 12-13-2022)
Statutory reference:
   See also §
12-204
§4-103 EXEMPTIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics, the animal shelter, or its contracted agent, and other
premises operated by veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals are
exempt from the provisions of this part, except where such duties are expressly
stated.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
CHAPTER 2: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
4-201   Office of animal control officer created; powers and duties
   
4-202   Animal shelter; feeding animals
   
4-203   Impoundment of animals
   
4-204   Property owner may impound animal
   
4-205   Breaking animal shelter
   
4-206   Fees for impounding
   
4-207   Redemption
   
4-208   Sale or destruction of impounded animals; adoption prohibitions for
unsterilized dogs or cats
   
4-209   Release for research prohibited
§4-201 OFFICE OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The office of animal control officer is hereby created. The animal control
officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of this part and is hereby
authorized to file complaints in the municipal court for violations of this
part.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-202 ANIMAL SHELTER; FEEDING ANIMALS.
   The city animal shelter or its authorized agent shall provide sustenance for
all animals impounded and shall treat them in a humane manner. The city animal
shelter is under the jurisdiction of the animal control officer or of such
other person as may be officially designated.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-203 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   An animal control officer or any other city officer or employee:
      (1)   Is authorized to trap or impound any animal observed to be in
violation of any of the provisions of this part or for humane reasons pursuant
to §
4-606; and
      (2)   May enter upon the premises of the owner or other private premises
to take such animal into custody.
   (B)   Any other person who finds an animal on his or her property to his or
her injury or annoyance may, in a humane manner, trap or take an animal running
at large within the city limits into custody and present it to the authority in
charge of the animal shelter or its authorized agent for impounding.
   (C)   (1)   When an animal is so trapped or impounded, it shall be humanely
kept and treated, and may be redeemed and disposed of, as other impounded
animals are kept, treated and redeemed or disposed of. A description of the
animal shall be kept and if the owner is known, the city shall make reasonable
attempts to notify the owner of the impoundment orally or in writing.
      (2)   If the animal is tagged but contact cannot be made with the owner,
an attempt will be made to determine if the registered owner has moved and to
ascertain the current address from utility billing records and/or local
veterinarian records.
   (D)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any part of this section,
proof that the animal described in the complaint was at large as defined herein
and that the defendant named in the complaint was the owner of the animal shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the owner permitted his
or her animal to be at large in violation of this part.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 4 O.S. §§ 501 through 508
§4-204 PROPERTY OWNER MAY IMPOUND ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any person who finds an animal on his or her property within the city
limits to his or her injury or annoyance may, in a humane manner:
      (1)   Remove such animal to the animal shelter or its authorized agent,
except that stray animals will be handled as provided by state law; or
      (2)   Retain possession of such animal or fowl and, within 24 hours,
notify the animal control officer or other appropriate existing agency of this
custody, giving his or her name, address and telephone number, a true and
complete description of said animal, the circumstances under which the animal
came into his or her possession, and the owner’s name, if known. Removal of the
animal from the property shall be done in such a manner so as not to cause
injury to the animal.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of rental property shall have the right to remove or
have the animal control officers remove said animal from the property in the
event that the rent is not current, the home or premises has been vacated and
the animal has been apparently abandoned.
      (2)   The owner shall complete an “Animal Removal Form” as provided by an
animal control officer.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-205 BREAKING ANIMAL SHELTER.
   No unauthorized person shall:
   (A)   Break or attempt to break open the animal shelter or facility of its
authorized agent or take or let out any animal therefrom. Such action may be
prosecuted by this part or pursuant to 21 O.S. as it relates to burglary of a
non-dwelling;
   (B)   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the city any
animal taken into custody as provided by this part;
   (C)   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or city employee in
the discharge of his or her duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals as provided in this part; or
   (D)   Let any animal out of any trap or damage any trap owned by the city.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-206 FEES FOR IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   The City Council by motion or resolution shall determine the fees to
be charged for impounding and keeping animals. In computing the fee, a fraction
of a day during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a full day.
   (B)   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required fees
to the appropriate person or office as designated by the City Manager and
present his or her receipt therefor to the person in charge of the animal
shelter or its authorized agent before the latter releases the animal.
   (C)   Written proof of a current rabies vaccination, or a prepayment receipt
for a rabies vaccination, by a licensed veterinarian must be presented when
redeeming an impounded animal from the animal shelter or its authorized agent.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003; Ord. 1837, passed 12-
13-2022)
§4-207 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   An owner of an impounded animal or his or her agent may redeem the
animal, prior to its sale or destruction as provided for herein, by paying the
required fees against the animal and meeting any other requirements which may
be prescribed in this part. However, when in the judgment of an animal control
officer, an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not
be redeemed.
   (B)   Animals impounded by reason of running at large may be redeemed at any
time within 72 hours, not counting weekends and holidays, by payment of
required impoundment and boarding fees. Animals redeemed on the day of
impoundment shall be subject to boarding fees for one day.
   (C)   No dog, cat or ferret shall be released from impoundment unless the
owner shows evidence of a current rabies vaccination, or a prepayment receipt
for a rabies vaccination, by a licensed veterinarian.
   (D)   Dogs and cats impounded for reasons other than running at large, and
other animals impounded pursuant to the authority of this part, shall be
released, redeemed, destroyed or otherwise disposed of according to the
procedures that pertain to said animal or the circumstances of the impoundment.
Provided, that if no such procedures apply, then an animal control officer is
authorized to determine and act upon those procedures that are in the best
interests of the animal and the public with proper regard for due process.
   (E)   When a police officer effects a custodial arrest of a person having an
animal in his or her immediate possession and no other responsible person of at
least 18 years of age is immediately present to take custody of an animal, the
animal will be impounded for the animal’s welfare. The owner, if other than the
arrestee, will be contacted and the disposition of the animal determined. The
owner and/or arrestee will have 72 hours from the time of contact to make
arrangements for the disposition of the animal. After the 72-hour period,
exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, has expired, the animal becomes
the property of the city and may be euthanized or otherwise disposed of at the
city’s sole discretion.
   (F)   In addition to any other offense provided in this part, it shall be
unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with the conditions of a
release, and persons found to be in violation may be cited each day until such
conditions are satisfied.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003; Ord. 1837, passed 12-
13-2022)
§4-208 SALE OR DESTRUCTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; ADOPTION PROHIBITIONS FOR
UNSTERILIZED DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   Any impounded animal not claimed by their owner before the expiration
of 72 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays, shall become
the property of the city and shall be disposed of at the discretion of the
city.
   (B)   Small unvaccinated animals, other than dogs or cats, shall be
impounded when found running at large within the city limits and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of this part or other applicable law.
   (C)   (1)   The animal control officer, upon receiving any animal for
impoundment, shall record or cause to be recorded the description, breed, color
and sex of the animal and whether or not it is licensed, and the date and time
of impoundment.
      (2)   If the animal is licensed or the owner is known, the officer shall
enter the name and address of the owner as may be shown on applicable city
records. If the owner is known, the officer shall attempt to contact the owner
to notify the owner that unless reclaimed within 72 hours, after impoundment,
Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays excluded, the animal will be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of by the city.
   (D)   At the end of the period prescribed in this part, animals that have
not been reclaimed by the owner thereof shall be destroyed, sold, adopted or
otherwise disposed of in a humane manner and as required by law. Any animal who
has displayed an aggressive disposition or behavior such as trying to bite or
scratch, has been reported to have already bitten or scratched, is unhealthy or
otherwise not eligible for adoption as determined by an animal control officer
or the city’s authorized agent shall be destroyed after the 72-hour period has
expired. Any animal eligible for adoption may be adopted after the 72-hour
period has expired but shall not be destroyed or otherwise disposed of until
after 120 hours after impoundment.
   (E)   No animal may be adopted from the animal shelter or its authorized
agent by any employee of the shelter for any reason, nor may any employee of
the shelter adopt, give away or sell any animal from the shelter except in
accordance with the provisions of this part.
   (F)   A “no questions asked” period of 72 hours, from the date of the
adoption, is established for the purpose of returning an adopted animal, for
any reason, to the Animal Control Division. The city or its authorized agents
are not responsible for any prepayments or payments made for rabies
vaccinations or sterilization of the animal. The adoption fee for the first
animal shall be applied toward the adoption of the second animal with no
additional adoption fees.
   (G)   (1)   A grace period of seven days, from the date of the adoption, is
established during which period an animal adopted from the city’s animal
shelter or its authorized agents may be returned to the animal shelter or its
authorized agent for a replacement animal, conditioned solely upon the
presentation of written certification of a licensed veterinarian that the first
adopted animal is in poor health. The city or its authorized agents are not
responsible for any prepayments or payments made for rabies vaccinations or
sterilization of the first animal.
      (2)   The adoption fee for the first animal shall be applied toward the
adoption of the second animal with no additional adoption fees.
   (H)   Upon presentation of reasonable proof that the adopted animal died
before the expiration of the period during which the spaying or neutering was
required to be completed, the adopting party or new owner can request a
replacement animal. The city or its authorized agents are not responsible for
any prepayments or payments made for rabies vaccinations of the first animal.
The adoption fee for the first animal shall be applied toward the adoption of
the second animal with no additional adoption fees.
   (I)   Sales and/or adoption fees as established by Council resolution shall
be for cash, check or money order and shall be collected by, or under the
direction of the department head as designated by the City Manager. If an
impounded animal cannot be sold or adopted, the animal shall be destroyed, in a
humane manner, or otherwise disposed of in a legal manner.
   (J)   The purchaser or adopter of an animal as provided herein shall acquire
absolute title to the animal purchased or adopted.
   (K)   The animal control officer shall pay to the appropriate person or
office, as designated by the City Manager, all money received from the sale or
adoption fees of impounded animals as soon as possible to the day in which it
is received or on the next day upon which the office of the City Treasurer is
open for business.
   (L)   (1)   No dog or cat may be released for adoption from the city’s
animal shelter or its authorized agent until the new owner has paid the
required adoption fee and:
         (a)   The animal has a current rabies vaccination and has been
surgically sterilized;
         (b)   Has presented a prepayment receipt from a veterinarian to have
the animal vaccinated for rabies and surgical sterilization; or
         (c)   Has presented a prepayment receipt from a veterinarian to have
the animal vaccinated for rabies and also has presented written documentation
from the veterinarian that the animal is unable to reproduce due to age or
illness.
      (2)   Prepayments for rabies and sterilization for puppies and kittens
are required even though a waiting period may be required before they are old
enough to be vaccinated for rabies or sterilized.
      (3)   Any tax exempt non-profit agency whose primary purpose is to
facilitate the adoption of animals to interested parties may take animals into
their possession from the city’s animal shelter or its authorized
representative without paying the required adoption fee described herein.
   (M)   The provisions of this part shall not be construed to require the
sterilization of dogs or cats which are being held in the city’s animal shelter
or its authorized agent which might be claimed by their rightful owners; nor
shall it be construed to require sterilization of dogs and cats held pursuant
to the provisions of 4 O.S.
   (N)   The city’s animal shelter or its authorized agent shall furnish
conditional adoption agreements to be completed and signed by the owner or
adopting party.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003; Ord. 1763, passed 1-
24-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 4 O.S. §§ 501 through 508
§4-209 RELEASE FOR RESEARCH PROHIBITED.
   No animal impounded in the city’s animal shelter or its authorized agent
pursuant to the authority of this part shall be released or delivered to any
institution for research, experimentation, testing or other scientific
purposes.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
CHAPTER 3: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
4-301   Animals running at large prohibited
   
4-302   Dogs prohibited from park trails
   
4-303   Keeping of domestic birds, fowl and bees
   
4-304   Animals killed or injured on rights-of-way
   
4-305   Sanitary enclosures required
   
4-306   Animal waste
   
4-307   Dead animals
   
4-308   Animals which disturb prohibited; nuisance; complaint procedure
   
4-309   Dogs chasing livestock or poultry; right to kill; liability; nuisance
   
4-310   Grazing, herding or pasturing in public areas illegal
   
4-311   Certain animals not to be kept within the city
   
4-312   Pet shops
   
4-313   Public way solicitation pet sales unlawful
§4-301 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any owner or other person to
allow or permit any animal to run at large, or trespass upon the property of
another, within the city. This division (A) shall not apply to cats.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any
animal is confined as required by ordinance so as to turn the animal at large,
or in any manner to turn the animal at large.
   (C)   An animal control officer or any law enforcement officer may destroy
an animal running at large that is rabid or a threat to public safety.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1683, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 1694, passed 1-
25-2011)
§4-302 DOGS PROHIBITED FROM PARK TRAILS.
   (A)   Dogs are prohibited, whether running at large or restrained, from the
jogging trails or sidewalks at any city park which has an established jogging
trail or sidewalk.
      (1)   When dogs are found on the jogging trails or sidewalks at any city
park as prohibited in this division (A) and their ownership is known to the
agents of the city, such dogs need not be impounded; but an animal control
officer or police officer may, at his or her discretion, cite the owner of such
dog to appear in court to answer to charges of this section.
      (2)   Dogs are allowed in the parks off of the jogging trails or
sidewalks when securely restrained and under the physical control of a
competent person by a leash or harness with handhold.
   (B)   Dogs are prohibited from entering into any city owned building.
   (C)   Dogs classified as service animals pursuant to the Americans with
Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   Domesticated animals of any kind are prohibited at Abe Raizen Park.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1564, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 1840, passed 2-
14-2023)
§4-303 KEEPING OF DOMESTIC BIRDS, FOWL AND BEES.
   (A)   Unless zoned A-1 or A-2, or grandfathered for such conditions prior to
the adoption of this part, keeping of domestic birds, fowl or bees shall be
permitted only by use on review as defined in the land development code (see
Part 12 of this code). Regardless of zoning or grandfathered status, details in
divisions (B) through (I) below are conditions for keeping of such animals
within the city limits.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a poultry house
or pen for the raising or keeping of chickens or any other poultry within 100
feet of any house or building used for residential purposes, situated on any
adjoining lot or plot of ground, in the city.
   (C)   It is the duty of the owner or person in charge of such domestic fowl
to keep the same securely confined in a suitable pen, coop, building or
enclosure. Any such fowl found running at large shall be deemed prima facie
evidence that the owner or person in charge has failed to comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   The keeping of more than three chickens within a recognized
residential subdivision on a lot of less than one acre is prohibited.
   (E)   The keeping of roosters, geese, guinea fowl, ducks, turkeys or
peacocks is similarly prohibited in recognized residential subdivisions on lots
of less than two acres.
   (F)   Any chicken or fowl or avian kept in a residential subdivision shall
be maintained as follows.
      (1)   All chickens, or other fowl, or avians, shall be confined to the
owner’s property at all times.
      (2)   All enclosures shall be cleaned regularly to prevent an
accumulation of food, fecal matter or nesting material from creating a nuisance
or unsanitary condition due to odor, vermin, debris or decay.
   (G)   Every keeper of domestic birds or fowl shall confine the same in an
enclosure sufficient to prevent their being at large and shall provide a
shelter area of sufficient size to be conducive to good sanitation practices
and shall provide adequate sanitary drainage for the shelter or area.
   (H)   The housing and keeping of fowl, domestic birds or bees shall be in
such a manner as not to create a nuisance. Owners of fowl, domestic birds or
bees will be held responsible and liable for any damages they cause within the
city.
   (I)   When bees are kept within the city limits, the following provisions
shall apply.
      (1)   No such beekeeping shall be allowed until the keeper of such bees
has registered his or her beekeeping operation with the city.
      (2)   The density of colonies on any lot may not exceed one colony of
bees for each 2,500 square feet of lot area.
      (3)   Colonies shall not be located within 35 feet of any property line
except:
         (a)   When situated at least eight feet above adjacent ground level;
or
         (b)   When situated less than six feet above adjacent ground level and
behind a solid fence, wall, dense evergreen hedge or effective equivalent
having a height of not less than six feet and parallel to each property line
within 35 feet of the hive. Such fence shall extend at least 30 feet beyond the
hive in both directions or the full length of the property line to which the
fence is parallel, whichever is the lesser.
      (4)   The beekeeper shall maintain fresh water sources on his or her lot
for his or her bees during all the times that bees fly from the hives.
      (5)   All colonies shall be maintained in movable frame hives, and mature
colonies shall be housed in two full depth brood chambers.
      (6)   Each beekeeper shall register his or her beekeeping operation with
the State Board of Agriculture as required by state law.
   (J)   The provisions of this section shall apply upon written and signed
complaint by the kennel master. When a violation is determined to exist, the
owner or keeper shall be ordered to correct the violation within 72 hours of
receiving such notice. Failure to correct the violation may result in the owner
or keeper being issued a summons to appear in court for the violation(s). Each
day a violation of this section is continued shall be deemed a separate
violation.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-304 ANIMALS KILLED OR INJURED ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall immediately report such injury or death to the animal’s owner; in
the event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, such operator shall at
once report the accident to the appropriate law enforcement agency, the animal
shelter or its authorized agent or to the local humane society.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provisions herein to the contrary, animals injured
or killed on or along public streets or rights-of-way within the city limits
shall be presumed to be or having been running at large. The animal control
officer shall remove all such animals and, at his or her discretion, deliver
those needing medical attention to a veterinarian or to the animal shelter or
its authorized agent. The owner of the animal shall be liable for all expenses
of treatment, impoundment and of disposal, in addition to any other penalties
imposed for violation of this part.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-305 SANITARY ENCLOSURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   All pens and enclosures where animals are kept and maintained shall at
all times be kept free of an accumulation of animal waste or other filth and
shall be cleaned or sanitized as often as is necessary to control noxious odors
and to prevent the infestation of flies, ticks, fleas, parasites, rodents and
other vermin. It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or
corporation to keep or maintain animal enclosures in such a way that they
become an annoyance or nuisance to others on adjoining properties or a threat
to the welfare of the animal or animals so enclosed.
   (B)   In addition to other powers of enforcement provided in this part, the
animal control officer is authorized to remove any animal kept or maintained in
a pen or enclosure in violation of this section and impound the animal in the
animal shelter or its authorized agent for humane treatment at the expense of
the owner.
   (C)   Any health officer, animal control officer or peace officer, upon
complaint of any person, shall inspect any structure or place where an animal
is kept, and may do so on his or her own initiative. He or she may issue any
such reasonable order as he or she may deem necessary to the owner of the
animal to cause the animal to be kept as provided in this part or in a manner
so as not to constitute a nuisance. He or she may make a complaint before the
municipal judge against any person for violation of any provision of this part
or of any such reasonable order, but this procedure shall not abridge the right
of others to make such complaint.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-306 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta or other animal waste or refuse deposited by his or her animal on
public walks, recreation areas or private property.
   (B)   Manure, excreta or other animal waste or refuse may be deposited in
trash, refuse or garbage receptacles only if such waste and refuse is placed in
a tightly sealed plastic bag or other similar airtight and flyproof container.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-307 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The carcass of a dead animal of such size as to permit the cover being
placed on the container or garbage can after it has been placed therein may be
placed in the container or can with the garbage. The carcass of a dead animal
too large to be placed in the container or garbage can must be disposed of by
the owner or at his or her expense.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to bury, or cause
to be buried, the carcass of any dead animal in any street, park, private
premises or other public or private place within the city.
   (C)   Animal owners must dispose of carcasses in a timely manner so as to
prevent odors, attract flies or create other health or sanitary risks.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Dead animals as garbage, see §
17-508
§4-308 ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB PROHIBITED; NUISANCE; COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The following conditions are hereby declared to be a nuisance:
      (1)   Any dog or other animal which, by frequent or long continued
barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and quiet of any person;
      (2)   Any dog or other animal, which goes into any garbage can or other
waste vessel, or turns the same over or scatters the contents of the same on
the ground; or
      (3)   Any dog or other animal which chases cars, motorcycles, bicycles or
any other motor vehicle or intimidates joggers, pedestrians or children.
   (B)   (1)   Any dog or other animal alleged to be a nuisance, as defined in
this section, may be proceeded against in the municipal court after a complaint
has been duly filed therein by any person having knowledge thereof, and if the
court shall find that such dog or other animal is a nuisance, then the court
may order the owner or the person in possession to prevent and abate such
nuisance, or the court may order such dog or animal impounded and the owner or
person in possession may have the dog or other animal returned upon paying all
costs of impounding and giving good and sufficient bond, in the sum as set by
the city, conditioned that he or she will prevent and abate such nuisance.
      (2)   Thirty days thereafter, such owner or person in possession may
present to the court evidence that the nuisance has been abated and prevented,
and the court may, upon such hearing, order the bond returned.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to restrict the privilege of
keeping, possessing, owning or harboring an animal within the city limits to
those of a quiet and peaceable nature; and not only shall the owner of such
animal be liable for the infliction of penalties provided but upon order of the
municipal judge, subsequent to a due process hearing, shall surrender the
animal for the purpose of destruction or disposition.
   (C)   Any animal control officer or any municipal law enforcement officer
may seize a potentially dangerous dog without a warrant:
      (1)   If the dog is continuing to run at large at the time of the
seizure;
      (2)   If the officer has probable cause to believe the dog is a dangerous
dog and the threat to the health, safety and welfare of livestock or persons is
of a continuing nature under the circumstances; or
      (3)   Pursuant to 4 O.S. § 47.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
§4-309 DOGS CHASING LIVESTOCK OR POULTRY; RIGHT TO KILL; LIABILITY; NUISANCE.
   In areas of the city zoned for agriculture, it shall be lawful for any
person to kill any dog found chasing or worrying sheep, other livestock or
poultry, off the premises of the owner of such dog, provided the animal is on
the premises of the individual acting, or the individual is authorized to take
such lethal action. Any person who kills such dog is liable for any act
stemming from his or her action and is responsible for ensuring minimal risk to
any person or other animal in the area. The owner or owners of any animal of
the dog kind that kills, worries or injures any sheep, lamb, goat, kid, other
livestock or poultry shall be jointly and severally liable to any person so
damaged, to the full amount of the injury done, and the court or justice,
before whom a recovery is had for any such injury, shall declare the animal
found to have occasioned the injury to be a common nuisance, and order the
defendant to kill or cause to be killed, such animal within 24 hours after the
rendition of the judgment. Appeals shall be allowed in all such cases. Such
appeals shall be prosecuted in such manner as prescribed by general statutes
governing appeals.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 4 O.S. § 41
§4-310 GRAZING, HERDING OR PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS ILLEGAL.
   (A)   No person shall allow or permit any livestock to graze or be herded in
the streets, alleys, parking lots and parks within the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal
on any public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city or
other, on any railroad right-of-way, or on any private property without the
consent of the person owning or controlling such property.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-311 CERTAIN ANIMALS NOT TO BE KEPT WITHIN THE CITY.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep, possess or have
in his or her control any cattle, horses, mules, goats, sheep, swine,
potbellied pigs or hogs, except in or on the fairgrounds or where permitted in
the city’s zoning regulations, including any future revisions and amendments to
the same.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-312 PET SHOPS.
   (A)   All pet shops within the city shall keep and maintain their animals in
such a manner as to prevent a nuisance or health hazard to humans and to avoid
injury and minimize illness to such animals. Maintenance of said animals shall
include:
      (1)   A wholesome adequate diet and potable water consistent with the
requirements and habits of the animal’s species, type, size, age and condition;
and
      (2)   Cages, pens and runs designed to provide adequate physical comfort,
maintained at a relative state of thermal neutrality, and periodically
disinfected to reduce disease pathogens.
   (B)   All animals showing evidence of disease or injury shall be immediately
isolated and shall receive treatment by a veterinarian or euthanized by the
same. The veterinarian performing such euthanasia shall document the reasons
and procedure for the same. Animals showing signs of parasites shall receive
appropriate treatment.
   (C)   Any pet shop selling dogs, cats, kittens or puppies shall provide to
the purchaser at the time of sale written documentation of each animal’s
origin, including the breeder’s name and the state where the animal was born,
and the animal’s complete health record. Any pet shop selling birds or reptiles
with a retail value exceeding $200 shall provide to the purchaser at the time
of sale, written documentation of the country or origin of the bird or reptile.
   (D)   Puppies or kittens shall not be offered for sale before eight weeks of
age, with the exception of puppies and kittens between six and eight weeks of
age that may be sold if they are examined and certified fit for sale by a
veterinarian.
   (E)   Any animal control officer or police officer with proper
identification may enter a pet shop during business hours for the purpose of
making inspections to determine compliance with this section.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-313 PUBLIC WAY SOLICITATION PET SALES UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful to sell, transfer, trade or give away, or any attempts to do
so, any dogs or cats from any location on a curbside, roadside, parking lot or
store front. This section shall not apply to events sponsored by the County
Humane Society or the animal shelter.
(Ord. 1837, passed 12-13-2022)
CHAPTER 4: DOGS AND CATS
Section
Article A. Spaying and Neutering
   
4-401   Legislative purpose
   
4-402   Impoundment fees; first offense
   
4-403   Impoundment fees; second or subsequent offenses
Article B. General Restrictions
   
4-410   Keeping of dogs and cats restricted by number
   
4-411   Confinement of female dogs and cats in heat
Article C. Registration; Tags
   
4-415   Registration/city tags not required
Article D. Rabies Control
   
4-420   Vaccination required
   
4-421   Rabies certificate and tag; records required
   
4-422   Rabies control
   
4-423   Animal bites; rabies examination; quarantine
   
4-424   Securing support information on diagnosed animals
   
4-425   Dogs and cats confined; when
   
4-426   Rabies crisis declaration
   
4-427   Destruction of animals under crisis period
   
4-428   Surrender of animals
   
4-429   Killing or removing rabid animal prohibited
Article E. Vicious Dogs
   
4-435   Confinement
   
4-436   Redemption prohibited; hearing; court proceedings against vicious
animals
Article F. Kennels
   
4-440   License required; application; fee; rabies vaccination; term; sanitary
conditions; exception
   
4-441   Facilities for keeping animals
   
4-442   Facility standards; space requirements; exceptions
   
4-443   Right of entry for inspection; revocation of license
   
4-444   Permit application; requirements; exceptions
   
4-445   Compliance with article required; revocation of permit
   
4-446   Permit required for large, small animals; restrictions
   
4-447   Number of animals limited
   
4-448   Practices to be observed in the keeping of large or small animals
   
4-449   Keeping not to be a nuisance
   
4-450   Refusal or revocation of permit; review by the City Manager
   
4-451   Regulations applicable to institutions, hospitals, pet shops and animal
shelters
   
4-452   Cumulative effect of article
ARTICLE A. SPAYING AND NEUTERING
§4-401 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that each year hundreds of dogs and cats within the
city are euthanized because they are unwanted, and data shows that the number
of dogs and cats that must be euthanized is on the increase. Furthermore, the
overpopulation of stray dogs and cats disturbs the quiet enjoyment of property
within the city, affecting the quality of life in residential neighborhoods.
The City Council finds that the overpopulation and attendant high costs of
disposal and enforcement can be significantly reduced through a spay and
neutering program. It is therefore the policy of the city to encourage and
promote through appropriate fee schedules and legislation the spaying and
neutering of dogs and cats as a means of responsible pet ownership.
(Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
§4-402 IMPOUNDMENT FEES; FIRST OFFENSE.
   First offense impoundment fees for allowing intact animals to run at large
will be twice as much as the impoundment fees for allowing sterilized animals
to run at large. The impoundment fee for allowing an intact animal to run at
large will be reduced by one-half upon presentation of a written receipt from a
veterinarian for prepayment of having the animal sterilized.
(Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
§4-403 IMPOUNDMENT FEES; SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT OFFENSES.
   Second or subsequent impoundment fees for allowing intact animals to run at
large will be twice as much as the first offense impoundment fee for allowing
intact animals to run at large. If the animal is not redeemed within 72 hours,
exclusive of holidays and weekends, the animal shall become the property of the
city and disposed of as described in § 4-208. The impoundment fee for second or
subsequent offenses will be reduced by one-half upon presentation of a written
receipt from a veterinarian for prepayment of having the animal sterilized.
(Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
ARTICLE B. GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
§4-410 KEEPING OF DOGS AND CATS RESTRICTED BY NUMBER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation that owns,
leases or controls any premises within the city to maintain on said premises
more than a combined total of four dogs and/or cats over the age of six months.
This provision shall not apply to agriculturally zoned properties. Any owner
having more than the above prescribed number of dogs or cats prior to May 1,
2000, and who can verify their ownership by way of rabies certificates, may
continue with the same animals without penalty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain any number of animals within a
dwelling unit in such a way that the conditions of the dwelling unit constitute
a nuisance or health hazard and threat to the occupants or welfare of the
animals maintained. Nothing in this division (B) shall be construed to permit
any person to maintain any dangerous animal, whether inside or outside a
dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-411 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   (A)   The owner of any female dog or female cat in heat shall keep said
animal confined in a building or secure enclosure, or in a veterinary hospital
or boarding kennel, in such a manner that the female dog or cat cannot come
into contact with another dog or cat except for planned breeding purposes, in
which event such dogs or cats shall be confined in some enclosed place entirely
out of the public view.
   (B)   Any person who violates this provision, either willfully or through
failure to exercise due care and control, is subject to the penalties
prescribed in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
ARTICLE C. REGISTRATION; TAGS
§4-415 REGISTRATION/CITY TAGS NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Pet registration or obtaining city tags is not required for dogs, cats
or ferrets.
   (B)   Pet owners are encouraged to have a subcutaneous computer chip
implanted in their animals to ensure the most accurate and expedient way of
identifying the owner. However, since every animal more than four months of age
is required to have a current, valid rabies vaccination tag, such rabies
vaccination tag is deemed sufficient to identify owners.
(Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
ARTICLE D. RABIES CONTROL
§4-420 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor within the limits of
the city any dog, cat or ferret, male or female, over the age of four months
unless such animal has a current vaccination against rabies administered by a
licensed veterinarian. Said immunization is considered valid if given within
the last 12 months, however, the city and state regulations recognize a three-
year rabies vaccine when given upon the second or later boosters. The
expiration date on the rabies certificate is to be used as prima facie evidence
to establish status of the immunization.
(Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
§4-421 RABIES CERTIFICATE AND TAG; RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The vaccination required in §
4-420 shall be performed by a veterinarian. Upon payment of the veterinarian’s
fee, the veterinarian shall deliver to the owner, keeper or harborer of each
vaccinated dog, cat or ferret a certificate showing the date of vaccination,
its apparent age and a statement as to whether the dog or cat is spayed or
neutered. At the time of delivery of the certificate, the veterinarian shall
also deliver to the owner, keeper or harborer of the vaccinated dog or cat a
metal or plastic tag to be known as a vaccination tag, which shall be attached
to the collar of the dog or cat, except when wearing a tag is exempted for
medical reason by a veterinarian. The certificate and tag shall be prima facie
evidence that the dog, cat or ferret has been vaccinated.
   (B)   Veterinarians shall be required to keep a record of a rabies
vaccination for a minimum period of three years. This record must include:
name, address and telephone number of the owner of the animal; date of
vaccination; animal identification; brand name of vaccine used, vaccine
expiration date and producer of vaccine.
   (C)   Three-year immunity conferred by the second or subsequent boosters
with a three-year rabies vaccine will be recognized.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
§4-422 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Every dog, cat or ferret that bites a person shall be promptly
reported to the animal control officer and shall be securely confined at the
animal shelter or its authorized agent unless the owner makes arrangements with
a veterinary hospital of the owner’s choice at the owner’s expense. The animal
shelter will keep any such animal for no longer than 72 hours. It is the
owner’s responsibility to make arrangements with a veterinary hospital for
confinement under the supervision of a veterinarian for a period of ten days
from the date the person was bitten or as otherwise provided in this section.
Once confined, the dog, cat or ferret shall not be released from such
confinement except by written permission of the animal control officer. In the
case of stray dogs or cats or in the cases of dogs, cats or ferrets whose
ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be at the animal shelter or its
authorized agent. Any animal that is not taken to a veterinary hospital after
72 hours, or earlier at the owner’s discretion, shall be euthanized.
   (B)   (1)   The animal control officer may make an exception to the
requirement of confinement with a veterinarian under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Dogs, cats or ferrets involved in a first party ownership may be
allowed to be securely confined and closely observed at the owner’s home for a
period of ten days immediately following the bite, as further defined in §
4-423(B); and
         (b)   Dogs in service to the blind, police dogs or search and rescue
dogs in the line of duty, or other currently vaccinated dogs or cats in a
situation where separation from the owner will threaten the owner’s well-being,
may be allowed to be placed in a home quarantine.
      (2)   When an exception is granted, the animal control officer will
provide information regarding the symptoms of rabies to the person responsible
for containing the animal during the quarantine period. If the animal should
display any of the symptoms for rabies, the responsible person must immediately
contact the animal control officer for further disposition.
   (C)   The owner upon demand made by the animal control officer shall
forthwith surrender the dog, cat or ferret that has bitten a human for
supervised quarantine, which expense shall be borne by the owner, and may be
reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies upon payment of the fees set
forth in this part and upon compliance with applicable spaying or neutering
provisions set forth in §§
4-401 through 4-403.
   (D)   Any domestic animal which is currently vaccinated against rabies and
is exposed to a rabid animal shall be re-vaccinated within 72 hours of
notification and isolated, by leashing or confinement under the owner’s
supervision, for a period of at least 45 days.
   (E)   Any livestock or equine animal which is not currently vaccinated and
is exposed to a rabid animal shall be managed according to the most current
compendium of animal rabies control published by the National Association of
State Public Health Veterinarians and any State Department of Agriculture
guidelines which may apply. Any dog, cat or ferret which is not currently
vaccinated against rabies and is exposed to a rabid animal shall be:
      (1)   Euthanized immediately either by a veterinarian of the owner’s
choice, or the animal control officer or his or her agent; or
      (2)   Placed in strict quarantine and observed for a period of six to
four months under the supervision of a veterinarian at a veterinary hospital.
Such dog, cat or ferret shall be vaccinated against rabies approximately 30
days prior to release from quarantine.
   (F)   (1)   When a dog, cat or ferret under quarantine has been diagnosed as
being rabid, or suspected by a veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while
under such observation, then the animal control officer shall immediately send
the head of the animal to veterinary pathology laboratory of Oklahoma State
University or other recognized diagnostic laboratory for rabies examination.
      (2)   He or she shall notify the public health officer of reports of
human contact and the diagnosis made of the suspected animal. If the animal is
decapitated, such work shall be done by a veterinarian.
   (G)   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the City
Manager may recommend a citywide quarantine for a period of 30 days. Upon the
invoking of such quarantine, no dog or cat shall be taken into the streets, or
permitted to be in the streets, during such period of quarantine.
   (H)   If there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring during the
period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended for an
additional period.
   (I)   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid dog, cat or
ferret, any dog, cat or ferret suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or
any dog, cat or ferret biting a human, except as provided in this section, nor
remove the same from the city without permission from the animal control
officer.
   (J)   The carcass of any dead dog, cat or ferret exposed to rabies shall
upon demand be surrendered to the animal control officer.
   (K)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any dog, cat or ferret for
quarantine or destruction as required in this section when demand is made
therefor by the animal control officer.
   (L)   Payment of any fees incurred and the cost of boarding the dog, cat or
ferret shall be the responsibility of the person owning, keeping or harboring
the animal. Further, the payment of fees incurred in the cost of euthanasia and
the sending of an animal for rabies testing shall be the responsibility of the
person owning, keeping or harboring the animal. If the animal is a stray or
wild animal without a custodian, the bite victim or their legal guardian, shall
be responsible for payment of fees.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003; Ord. 1837, passed 12-
13-2022)
§4-423 ANIMAL BITES; RABIES EXAMINATION; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   If the identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person is known, it shall be promptly furnished to the animal control officer
and the County Health Department. The animal, regardless of its immunization
status, shall be securely quarantined at the animal shelter for no longer than
72 hours. It is the owner’s responsibility to make arrangements with a
veterinary hospital of the owner’s choice at the owner’s expense. The animal
shall be observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days and may
not be released until such reasonable determination has been made that the
animal is not infected with rabies, unless the bite was a severe bite by an un-
immunized animal. In circumstances of a severe bite (bite on the head, face,
neck or upper extremities; or deep laceration; or multiple bite wounds) by an
un-immunized animal, the biting animal should be humanely killed immediately,
without damaging the head, and the head removed and shipped, under
refrigeration, for examination at the State Department of Health. If the animal
is not immediately available for testing, the individuals exposed should
consult with their physician concerning the need for immediate initiation for
rabies prophylaxis. In the case of animals whose ownership is unknown, such
quarantine shall be at the city animal shelter or its authorized agent. If an
owner becomes known, the animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free
of rabies, and such owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement.
Signs of rabies in wild animals cannot be interpreted reliably; therefore, any
wild animal that has exposed a person should be killed at once (without
unnecessary damage to the head) and the head submitted for examination for
evidence of rabies.
   (B)   An animal that bites or scratches the animal’s owner or a family
member in a first party ownership will be allowed to be securely confined and
observed at the owner’s home for a ten-day period immediately following the
bite and shall not be otherwise quarantined if the owner so requests. This
exception will only be allowed when it is determined by the kennel master or
his or her designee that the conditions for secure confinement and animal
supervision can be met by the responsible first party. In addition, the owner
must provide proof of current rabies immunization, which has been provided by a
licensed doctor of veterinary medicine. It shall be the animal control
officer’s duty to inform the person about the benefits and risks of quarantine.
If the owner or family member does not request a quarantine of the animal, they
will be required to execute a release of liability to the city, in a manner
prescribed by the city. If the owner or family member is under 18 years of age,
then the release shall also be executed by that person’s parent or guardian.
   (C)   Dogs in service to the blind, police dogs or search and rescue dogs in
the line of duty, or other currently vaccinated dogs or cats in a situation
where separation from the owner will threaten the owner’s well-being, may not
be required to be placed in quarantine at the discretion of the kennel master
or his or her designee.
   (D)   Stray or unwanted dogs or cats that have bitten any person may either
be quarantined for ten days at an approved veterinary facility or an animal
control facility; or immediately euthanized and the brain tissue submitted to
the State Department of Health laboratory for rabies testing at the discretion
of the kennel master or his or her designee.
   (E)   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other practitioner
to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
   (F)   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the animal
control officer his or her diagnoses of any animal observed by him or her to be
a rabid suspect.
   (G)   The kennel master shall keep or cause to be kept an accurate and
detailed record of all bite cases reported to the city with a complete report
of the investigation of each case.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003; Ord. 1837, passed 12-
13-2022)
§4-424 SECURING SUPPORT INFORMATION ON DIAGNOSED ANIMALS.
   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid or is
suspected of having rabies by a licensed veterinarian and dies while under such
observation, the animal control officer, veterinarian, the city health officer
or other designated emissary shall immediately send the necessary part of such
animal to the State Department of Health for pathological examination and shall
notify the proper public health officer of any reports of human contact.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-425 DOGS AND CATS CONFINED; WHEN.
   (A)   When the health officer or Chief of Police determines and certifies
that a dog, a cat or other animal in the city or within five miles of the city
is or was infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the
city, the Council, by resolution, may order all dogs, cats and other animals to
be confined during a period of time to be determined by the Council. Such
resolution or an adequate notice of its passage shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city and shall go into effect on
the day following such publication unless the resolution prescribes a later
time.
   (B)   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit a dog or cat to be at large in violation of such resolution, or for any
dog or cat to be at large in violation thereof.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-426 RABIES CRISIS DECLARATION.
   (A)   When a report gives a suspected or a positive diagnosis of rabies, or
when the city, county or state health officials feel that a rabies crisis may
be imminent, the health officials may recommend to the City Manager citywide
quarantine, and upon the invoking of such quarantine by the City Council, by
resolution, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the
streets, except for short periods of exercise under leash and control of a
competent adult.
   (B)   During the quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the city
without written permission of the animal control officer. This declaration must
be made by notice in a general circulated newspaper of the community and will
last as long as health officials determine the situation requires such action.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-427 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS UNDER CRISIS PERIOD.
   (A)   During the period of rabies quarantine as mentioned, every animal
bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed, or at
the owner’s expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies infection by a
licensed veterinarian, or held under six-month quarantine by the owner in the
same manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended
from time to time.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of the quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended
for an additional six months.
   (C)   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any animal biting or
scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor to remove same from the city
limits without written permission from the health officer of the city or the
animal control officer.
   (D)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand,
be surrendered to the animal control officer.
   (E)   The city veterinarian, in consort with the State Department of Health,
shall direct the disposition of any animal found to be infected with rabies.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-428 SURRENDER OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall remove from the city any animal suspected of having been
exposed to rabies, or any animal which has bitten a human, except as herein
provided. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the animal control officer upon demand, and the animal control officer shall
direct disposition of the animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the
animal control officer. It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or
other practitioner to report to the Animal Control Division the names and
addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such
other information as will be helpful in rabies control.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-429 KILLING OR REMOVING RABID ANIMAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer or animal control
officer, shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any animal
suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any animal biting a human, except
as provided in this article, or remove the animal from the city limits without
written permission from the health officer of this city.
   (B)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand,
be surrendered to an animal control officer. The health officer of the city
shall direct the disposition of any animal found to be infected with rabies.
   (C)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
or destruction when demand is made by an animal control officer or police
officer. Such refusal shall be deemed an offense.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
ARTICLE E. VICIOUS DOGS
§4-435 CONFINEMENT.
   The owner of any vicious dog shall confine the animal within a building or
secure enclosure and display a sign on the premises that there is a dangerous
dog on the premises. The owner shall not take the dog out of the building or
secure enclosure unless the dog is securely muzzled and restrained by a chain
or leash not exceeding six feet in length and under the actual physical control
of a responsible, competent person. The muzzle must be made in a manner that it
will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration
but will prevent it from biting any person or animal.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-436 REDEMPTION PROHIBITED; HEARING; COURT PROCEEDINGS AGAINST VICIOUS
ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any vicious animal impounded for being vicious and
found running at large may not redeem the animal from the animal shelter or its
authorized agent unless the municipal court or another court of competent
jurisdiction, upon hearing, authorizes such redemption.
      (2)   The animal control officer shall stay the destruction of the
vicious animal pending said hearing if the owner agrees in writing to pay
boarding fees as determined by the animal shelter or its authorized agent for
the duration of the impoundment. A vicious animal will not be put up for
adoption.
   (B)   (1)   Any dog or other animal alleged to be vicious or dangerous may
be proceeded against in the municipal court, after a complaint has been duly
filed therein by any person having knowledge thereof.
      (2)   If the court shall find that, at such time: the dog or other animal
has attacked a person or animal, and the person or animal so attacked was not
at the time trespassing upon the property of the owner or person having control
of such dog or animal; or it cannot be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that
the person or animal so attacked was provoking or teasing such dog or other
animal; or the dog or other animal is of such vicious and fierce disposition as
to attack human beings or animals without provocation, then the court shall
have the authority to order such dog or other animal kept muzzled or that such
dog or other animal be kept within a sufficient enclosure.
      (3)   In addition, the court may require that the owner of the vicious
animal have the animal obtain a registered microchip, within 15 days, which
must show current ownership information, including owner name, address, phone
number (if available) and the description of the pet. If such dog or other
animal has bitten or attacked a human being or animal, the court may order that
it be delivered to an animal control officer and destroyed by him or her.
      (4)   Any person who willfully violates the order of the court under
these provisions may be punished for contempt of court. The court shall also
have the authority to have the dog or other animal destroyed if such person
refuses to comply with the court’s order. In addition, the court may also
impose fines and costs pursuant to §§
1-108 and
4-806.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1837, passed 12-13-2022)
ARTICLE F. KENNELS
§4-440 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; RABIES VACCINATION; TERM; SANITARY
CONDITIONS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall own, maintain or operate a kennel within the
city unless such kennel is licensed as herein provided.
      (2)   Application for such license shall be made to the appropriate
person or office as designated by the City Manager and shall state the name and
address of the owner or operator of the kennel with the street address and
legal description of the property upon which the kennel is located. Application
for a renewal license must be received by the city at least 60 days prior to
the expiration of the license.
      (3)   A kennel license may only be obtained for areas zoned for
agricultural, industrial or commercial usage but in no case shall be issued for
areas zoned for residential usage.
   (B)   A kennel license fee shall be as provided in the fee schedule, and
such license shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (C)   The owner or operator of a kennel must show proof of rabies
vaccination on all animals over four months of age when applying for a license,
as set forth in §§
4-420 and
4-421.
   (D)   Licenses expire annually on December 31. There is no proration of
license fees.
   (E)   Any person maintaining a kennel, whether for profit or not, shall
maintain such kennel in a sanitary condition and shall be subject to the
provisions of this part. Nonconforming kennels shall be deemed a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-441 FACILITIES FOR KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Permits for the keeping of large animals shall be issued only to those
applicants who provide facilities for the keeping of such large animals in
quarters set out herein, which will confine the large animals within the limits
not closer than 100 feet to the exterior limits of any dwelling resided in by
anyone other than the applicant unless such other building is owned by the
applicant. Large animals shall be kept in a stall measuring at least six feet
wide and 12 feet deep for each large animal. The stall area shall be
constructed in a manner as to provide shelter for the animals from inclement
weather. In addition, there shall be, adjacent to the stall, a lounging/
exercise lot measuring at least 15 feet wide by 27 feet deep for each large
animal.
   (B)   Permits for the keeping of small animals shall be issued only to those
applicants who provide facilities for the keeping of such small animals in
quarters set out in this part, which will confine the small animals within
limits not closer than 25 feet to the exterior limits of any dwelling resided
in by anyone other than the applicant.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-442 FACILITY STANDARDS; SPACE REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All kennels within the city limits shall meet the following minimum
standards.
      (1)   The kennel floor shall be made of concrete at least four inches
thick or other material as approved by the city building inspector, with a
smooth surface which shall have one-fourth inch of slope per foot of fall for
drainage. The drainage shall slope to a cleanout gutter, and all drains shall
be connected to the sanitary sewage line.
      (2)   (a)   Each cage shall have sleeping quarters, a lounging area and
access to an exercise area with a minimum of 150 square feet. Sleeping quarters
for the animals shall be protected from the weather, and each lounging area
shall be individually enclosed by chainlink material of at least ten to 14
gauge or other material as approved by the city inspector and shall have the
following minimum dimensions for the number of animals to be accommodated:
 
Width  Length  Height Accommodation For
4 feet 12 feet 6 feet Lounging area for 1 large dog, or 2 medium dogs, or 3
                      small dogs or cats
4 feet 6 feet  3 feet Sleeping area for 1 large dog, or 2 medium dogs, or 3
                      small dogs or cats
 
         (b)   However, cages for cats shall be completely enclosed.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         LARGE SIZE DOGS. Any dog weighing in excess of 50 pounds.
         MEDIUM SIZE DOGS. Any dog weighing between 25 and 50 pounds.
         SMALL SIZE DOGS. Any dog weighing 25 pounds or less.
      (4)   There shall be at least one cage which must be completely enclosed
to house female dogs in heat.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to kennels operated and
maintained by licensed veterinarians, to commercial pet stores where all
animals are kept within the establishment, nor to the animal shelter or its
authorized agents.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-443 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It is a condition to the issuance of a kennel license that an animal
control officer shall be permitted to inspect, at all reasonable times, all
animals and kennels.
   (B)   Refusal by the owner or operator of the kennel to permit such
inspection shall be a cause for the revocation of the kennel license. A second
attempt will be made to inspect the animals and kennels within 48 hours,
exclusive of holidays and weekends, from the time of the first refusal; and if
the inspecting officer is denied entry for the purpose of inspection, the
animal control officer shall revoke the license. The decision of the animal
control officer shall be subject to review by the City Manager if the kennel
owner or operator feels that the revocation of the kennel permit is
unjustified. No refund of the license fee shall be made to the license holder.
   (C)   If a City Manager review is desired, the owner or operator of the
kennel shall so inform the animal control officer, who, in turn, shall place
the request before the City Manager within 30 days from the date of revocation.
The animal control officer shall notify the owner/operator of the date, time
and place in which the City Manager will consider the review.
   (D)   During the pendency of the City Manager review, no action shall be
taken or initiated against the owner or operator of the kennel.
   (E)   The decision of the City Manager is final. If the license revocation
is upheld by the City Manager, no refund of the license fee shall be made to
the license holder.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-444 PERMIT APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Permits for large or small animals may be obtained from the city
after an application for the permit has been filed with and approved by the
kennel master. The kennel master shall approve such application only after
determining that the applicant for such permit complies with the requirements
for the keeping of such animals as set forth in this part and the zoning code.
      (2)   Once the premises have been inspected by an animal control officer,
the Animal Control Division will coordinate with the city’s zoning
administrator for zoning approval.
   (B)   The following are exempt from the animal permit requirements of §
4-415:
      (1)   Areas in excess of five acres inhabited by no more than one single-
family dwelling unit shall be allowed to keep large animals, if the number of
large animals does not exceed one large animal per acre;
      (2)   Publicly owned institutions or public agencies, hospitals, clinics,
premises operated by licensed veterinarians for the care and treatment of
animals, commercial pet stores and animal shelter or its authorized agents;
      (3)   Public sale yards, slaughter pens and meat-packing plants;
      (4)   Medical laboratories and educational institutions keeping such
animals for medical research, veterinary hospitals or pet shops keeping such
animals for resale; and
      (5)   Owners or keepers of dogs or cats must obtain an annual license but
are exempt from the requirement to obtain an animal permit, but where four or
more dogs or cats are kept, all other provisions of §§ 4-440 through 4-443 on
small animals shall be applicable. All exceptions provided herein must fully
comply with all the sanitary provisions of this code.
   (C)   Valid permits shall be posted in a conspicuous place and shall be
considered an appurtenance to the premises and are not transferable to another
location nor from one owner to another.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-445 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE REQUIRED; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   It is the duty of the holder of any permit to maintain and operate the
housing and keeping of such animals in such a manner as not to create a
nuisance as determined by an animal control officer.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-446 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR LARGE, SMALL ANIMALS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be two classifications of permits that may be issued under
the provisions of this article, as follows:
      (1)   Permit for keeping small animals; and
      (2)   Permit for keeping large animals.
   (B)   The permit fees shall be as provided in the fee schedule.
   (C)   All permits issued hereunder shall expire annually on December 31 of
each year. There shall be no proration of the fee.
   (D)   Permits for the keeping of large or small animals on areas of less
than five acres shall be issued only to the owner or person living on such
land.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-447 NUMBER OF ANIMALS LIMITED.
   Except as provided in this part, no permit shall be issued, or be valid if
issued, for the permitting or keeping within the city a combined total of more
than two large animals and 12 small animals.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-448 PRACTICES TO BE OBSERVED IN THE KEEPING OF LARGE OR SMALL ANIMALS.
   (A)   Upon the obtaining of a permit from the appropriate person or office
as designated by the City Manager, every owner of large or small animal or
animals shall observe the following practices:
      (1)   Confine the same in an enclosure sufficient to prevent their
running at large. Such enclosure shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times, and an approved insecticide shall be used as often as
deemed necessary by an animal control officer;
      (2)   Provide a shelter or area of a size sufficient to be conducive to
good sanitation practices, and he or she shall provide adequate and sanitary
drainage for the shelter or area;
      (3)   Cause the litter and droppings therefrom to be collected daily in a
container or receptacle of such a type that, when closed, is ratproof and
flytight, and after each such collection shall cause such container or
receptacle to be kept closed. At least twice each week, each such keeper shall
cause all litter and droppings so collected to be disposed of in a way as not
to permit the presence of fly larvae; and
      (4)   Cause all feed provided to be stored and kept in a ratproof,
flytight building, box, container or receptacle.
   (B)   The premises where large or small animal or animals are kept shall be
subject to inspection by an animal control officer any reasonable hour of the
day.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-449 KEEPING NOT TO BE A NUISANCE.
   It is the duty of the holder of any permit provided for in this chapter to
maintain and operate the housing and keeping of such animals in such a manner
as not to create a nuisance.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-450 REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; REVIEW BY THE CITY MANAGER.
   The failure of any owner or keeper of any of such animals to comply with the
provisions of or the sanitation standards and requirements established by the
city in this article shall be cause for the kennel master to refuse to grant a
permit for the keeping of such animals, or, if the permit shall have been
previously granted to such keeper, shall be cause for the revocation of the
same. The decision of the kennel master may be subject to review by the City
Manager if the applicant feels nongranting of permit or revocation of permit to
be unjustified.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-451 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTITUTIONS, HOSPITALS, PET SHOPS AND ANIMAL
SHELTERS.
   Animals kept in medical laboratories or educational institutions for medical
research, or in veterinary hospitals for treatment, or in pet shops for resale,
or in animal shelters, shall be kept under the same sanitary conditions
prescribed by §
4-448.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-452 CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ARTICLE.
   This article shall be cumulative of all other sanitary ordinances or
regulations of the city unless in conflict with the terms of such ordinances
and regulations, in which case the terms of this article shall prevail.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
CHAPTER 5: WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS
Section
   
4-501   Purpose and effect
   
4-502   Definitions
   
4-503   Prohibited; exceptions
   
4-504   Notice to remove; impoundment
   
4-505   Costs of impoundment
   
4-506   Wildlife and exotics in transit; contingency plan required; exceptions
   
4-507   Bite cases; exceptions
   
4-508   Performing animal exhibitions
§4-501 PURPOSE AND EFFECT.
   The City Council finds that the presence of wild or exotic animals is
incompatible with the urban, residential character of the community in that
such animals threaten and disturb the health, safety, comfort, security and
peace of mind of its inhabitants. To this end, it shall be the public policy of
the city that the possession or maintenance of wild or exotic animals within
the municipal limits shall be prohibited. Specific animals permitted
individually prior to adoption of this chapter are exempt as long as permits
are renewed annually until such animal is sold, dies or is otherwise disposed
of.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWN, KEEP or HARBOR. To have legal title to, or the care or custody of,
possession, maintenance of or control over any wild animal.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM (TO PERSONS). Physical harm involving a substantial
risk of death, partial or total permanent incapacity, permanent or temporary
serious disfigurement or acute pain lasting long enough to result in
substantial suffering or causing any degree of prolonged or incurable pain.
   WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal other than domestic dogs and cats,
including those born or raised in captivity, which in the wild state is
carnivorous or which because of its nature or physical makeup is capable of
inflicting serious physical harm or death to human beings, including, but not
limited to, all forms of venomous or constrictor snakes, alligators,
crocodiles, lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, bobcats, cougars (mountain
lions), lynxes, wolves, foxes or any hybrid of like animals, elephants,
rhinoceroses, bears, apes, monkeys, foxes, coyotes, raccoons, skunks, prairie
dogs, bats and like animals; snakes, rear fanged and constrictors, including
boa constrictors, anacondas, cobras, adders, pythons, asps, rattlesnakes,
copperheads, cottonmouths and like animals.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1837, passed 12-13-2022)
§4-503 PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, no person shall own, keep or
harbor any wild or exotic animal in the city.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to any keeping of
such animals in or en route to a bona fide licensed veterinary hospital for
treatment, or in bona fide educational or medical institutions or museums where
they are kept as live exhibits or for study, licensed zoological parks or zoos,
performing animal exhibitions, traveling circuses or wildlife rehabilitators
properly licensed by the State Wildlife Department, providing a permit has been
obtained.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-504 NOTICE TO REMOVE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Upon investigation and determination that a person owns or is keeping
or harboring a wild animal on premises within the city, the animal control
officer shall mail written notice to such person, requiring the person to
safely remove the animal from the city within five days after the receipt of
said notice.
   (B)   (1)   The animal control officer shall cause to be seized and
impounded any wild animal where the person owning, keeping or harboring such
animal has failed to comply with the notice sent pursuant to this section.
Provided, however, the animal control officer shall cause to be immediately
seized and impounded, without the requirement of notice in division (A) above,
any wild animal that has previously caused serious physical harm or death to
any person or has escaped and is at large.
      (2)   Upon seizure and impoundment, said animal shall be delivered to a
place of confinement which may be with any organization authorized by law to
accept, own, keep or harbor such animals.
   (C)   If, during the course of seizing and impounding, the wild animal poses
a risk of serious physical harm or death to any person, the animal control
officer is authorized to contract with appropriate persons or agencies to
render said animal immobile by means of tranquilizers or other safe drugs. If
the animal has escaped and is at large, and immobilization is not safely
possible, then said animal may be killed.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-505 COSTS OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The reasonable costs incurred by the city in seizing, impounding and for
confining any wild animal shall be charged against the owner, keeper or
harborer of such animal. Such charge shall be in addition to, and not in lieu
of, the penalty provided for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-506 WILDLIFE AND EXOTICS IN TRANSIT; CONTINGENCY PLAN REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No nonresident person of this city may bring any wild or exotic
animal into this city or travel with any wild or exotic animal in this city
without obtaining a permit before entering this city.
      (2)   To obtain a permit to enter or travel with any wild or exotic
animal, such nonresident shall notify or submit an application to the kennel
master which shall describe the number and species of animals, anticipated
itinerary and purposes for bringing the animal or animals into the city.
      (3)   The animal control supervisor may issue the permit, provided that
the applicant can demonstrate, in advance, compliance with the minimum care
standards and a need to bring such animal into or through the city.
      (4)   The permit shall be valid for no more than 30 days and may not be
renewed.
   (B)   A written contingency plan for animal escape and retrieval must be
submitted before a permit is issued. The plan must include immediate
notification of the city police, County Sheriff’s office and animal control
should an escape occur.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Common carriers;
      (2)   Animal suppliers transporting wildlife or exotics to zoos;
      (3)   Animal suppliers to institutes of higher education;
      (4)   Local, state or federal agencies;
      (5)   Circuses meeting minimum humane standards; or
      (6)   Zoos meeting minimum humane standards.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-507 BITE CASES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Bite defined. For the purpose of this section, the term BITE means the
breaking of the skin of a human being by a wild or exotic animal.
   (B)   Disposal of animal. Any wild or exotic animal, provoked or unprovoked,
that bites a human shall be disposed of as follows.
      (1)   The animal shall be euthanized and the head sent off for rabies
testing.
      (2)   The animal control center shall deliver said wild or exotic animal
head to the appropriate authority for testing.
      (3)   Wild or exotic animals that are found dead and that have bitten a
human shall be impounded and their head shall be sent for testing to the city
health officer or other testing agency.
   (C)   Exception. The kennel master may consider a six-month to one-year
rabies quarantine period for rare, endangered or threatened or other exotic or
wild animals if the following criteria are fully met:
      (1)   A letter is received from a licensed veterinarian requesting
observation rather than euthanasia;
      (2)   The victim agrees to the observation of the animal rather than
euthanasia;
      (3)   The owner and/or possessor shall agree to indemnify and hold
harmless the animal control center and city;
      (4)   The animal was bred and raised in captivity;
      (5)   The animal was licensed according to all federal, state or local
laws;
      (6)   The six-month holding period shall be considered a minimum time
period;
      (7)   After the observation period, a licensed veterinarian can release
the animal and the animal control center will be notified, in writing, thereof;
and
      (8)   Animals shall be quarantined under conditions as required by the
animal control center and the veterinarian involved.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-508 PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person may sponsor, promote, train a wild animal to participate in,
contribute to the involvement of a wild animal in, or attend as a spectator any
activity or event in which any wild animal engages in unnatural behavior or is
wrestled, fought, mentally or physically harassed, or displayed in such a way
that the animal is abused or stressed mentally or physically or is induced or
encouraged to perform through the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or
manual devices in a manner that will cause or is likely to cause physical
injury or suffering. This prohibition applies to events and activities taking
place in either public or private facilities or property and applies regardless
of the purpose of the event or activities and irrespective of whether or not a
fee is charged to spectators. This division (A) is not intended to include
performing animals in recognized rodeo or circus acts.
   (B)   All equipment used on a performing animal shall fit properly and be in
good working condition.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
CHAPTER 6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Section
   
4-601   Acts prohibited
   
4-602   Consideration required
   
4-603   Animal treatment generally
   
4-604   Confinement of dogs or cats
   
4-605   Use of leash, rope, chain or similar tether
   
4-606   Duty of animal control officer
   
4-607   Injured or sick animals
   
4-608   Abandonment of injured or diseased animals
§4-601 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following
acts:
      (1)   To maliciously overdrive, overload, torture, destroy or kill, or
cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in subjugation or
captivity, whether dangerous or tame and whether belonging to himself or
herself or to another;
      (2)   Unjustly administer any poison or noxious drug or substance to any
animal;
      (3)   Unjustly expose any drug or substance with the intent that the same
shall be taken by an animal, whether such animal be the property of that owner
or another person;
      (4)   To deprive any animal of necessary food, drink, shelter, proper
light and ventilation or medical attention reasonably required;
      (5)   To cause, procure or permit any of the occurrences enumerated in
this division (A) or any other act tending to produce such cruelty;
      (6)   To set afoot, instigate, engage in or in any way further any act of
cruelty to any animal, or do any act tending to produce such cruelty; and/or
      (7)   Cause any other person to do any of the above acts.
   (B)   If an animal control officer finds an animal to be in one of the above
described conditions, the officer may issue a citation to the offender and
shall issue a notice to the offender warning him or her that if the animal’s
condition is not improved, another citation may be issued.
   (C)   If, within 72 hours, the condition of the animal is not improved to
the satisfaction of the animal control officer, a citation shall be issued.
   (D)   No dogs, cats or other small animals shall be confined within a motor
vehicle under such conditions as may endanger the health or well-being of the
animal, including, but not limited to, dangerous temperature, lack of food or
water.
   (E)   No person shall abandon or cause to be abandoned any dogs, cats or
small animals.
   (F)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, reptile, fowl or bird
as a prize for, or as an inducement to enter any contest, game or other
competition, as an inducement to enter a place of amusement or as an incentive
to enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting trade.
   (G)   No animal or bird may be dyed or stained an artificial color for the
purpose of offering for sale or giving away as a prize.
   (H)   (1)   No person shall set or expose an open jaw-type trap, leg hold
trap, snare trap or any type of trap which would likely cause physical harm or
injury to any animal.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to persons who are licensed by the
state to trap animals as provided in 29 O.S. § 4-119.
   (I)   No person shall deposit any live dog, cat or other domestic animal
along any private or public roadway, or in any other private or public place
with the intention of abandoning the domestic animal.
   (J)   Upon conviction, any person found in violation of divisions (A)
through (H) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-602 CONSIDERATION REQUIRED.
   Any person making use of any dumb beast or domestic animal within the limits
of the city as a beast of burden or means of transportation shall use due care
and be duly considerate in using such animal.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-603 ANIMAL TREATMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Owners and keepers of dogs, cats and other small animals shall provide
such animals, regardless of how confined, with food, shelter and medical
attention, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Sufficient wholesome food that is nutritious for the species;
      (2)   Fresh, potable drinking water; and
      (3)   Medical attention to relieve such animals from suffering.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to leave any dog, cat or other small animal
unattended for more than 72 hours.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the animal
control officer or other persons from attending to dogs, cats and other small
animals at any time such animals lack the necessities or comforts required
herein.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-604 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   The owner of any dog shall provide the animal with adequate shelter
that meets the minimum specifications of this division (A). Said shelter shall:
      (1)   Allow the dog or cat to remain dry and protected from the elements,
provided that metal barrels shall not be considered adequate shelter;
      (2)   Be small enough to retain the dog’s or cat’s body heat and large
enough to allow the animal to stand and turn comfortably;
      (3)   Be structurally sound and in good repair; and
      (4)   Contain adequate and appropriate bedding.
   (B)   Any owner of any dog or cat that elects to confine the animal to a pen
or enclosure shall, in addition to the requirements of division (A) above,
provide a pen or enclosure that meets the minimum specifications of this
division (B). Said pen or enclosure shall:
      (1)   Have not less than 100 square feet of space for each adult dog,
provided that boarding kennels shall be exempt from this provision; and
      (2)   Provide adequate drainage to prevent surface water from standing in
the area of the pen or enclosure where the dog is kept.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-605 USE OF LEASH, ROPE, CHAIN OR SIMILAR TETHER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to keep or maintain the
dog or cat on a leash, rope, chain or similar tether unless the dog or cat is
under continuous supervision by the owner, or other adult responsible for the
animal.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 1837, passed 12-13-2022)
§4-606 DUTY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any animal control officer finding an animal
in imminent danger due to maltreatment or abuse, lack of basic care, lack of
adequate shelter, improperly tethered or suffering any of the cruelties of this
chapter, to remove the animal and impound it in the animal shelter or its
authorized agent for humane treatment at the expense of the owner. If such
conditions exist but the animal is not in imminent danger, a warrant will be
obtained to enter the premises.
   (B)   When, in the judgment of the animal control officer, any animal should
be destroyed for humane reasons, the owner may not redeem the animal, but if
the owner desires, it may be released into the custody of a veterinarian. The
owner shall be responsible for any fees charged by a veterinarian.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-607 INJURED OR SICK ANIMALS.
   (A)   Every person owning or having any animal under his or her charge
within the city which he or she knows or suspects to be sick or injured shall
isolate the animal from other animals and shall obtain treatment for such
animal by a licensed veterinarian within 24 hours.
   (B)   Any animal which comes into possession of the city at the animal
shelter or its authorized agent which is severely injured or sick shall be
humanely euthanized by the animal shelter or its authorized agent personnel
without waiting for the expiration of the period in which such animal may be
reclaimed by its owner, or before the end of the period in which the animal may
be placed for adoption. Provided, however, that before such sick or injured
animal is euthanized, the animal shelter or personnel of its authorized agent
shall attempt to contact the owner, if known, of such animal to determine the
disposition of such animal. If the owner indicates that the animal will be
reclaimed but fails to reclaim the animal within a reasonable time (no longer
than 24 hours), or if the owner of such animal is not known, the sick or
injured animal shall be euthanized by the animal shelter or its authorized
agent personnel. The animal shelter or its authorized agent supervisor shall
keep a record of such animal, to include breed and sex of the animal, when the
animal came into possession of the city, the type of injury or sickness of such
animal, the date the animal was destroyed and any other information relevant to
the health, condition and description of such animal.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-608 ABANDONMENT OF INJURED OR DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person owning or having charge or custody of a maimed, diseased,
disabled or infirm animal who fails to get proper treatment within one hour
after said person receives notice by a duly constituted authority that the
animal is disabled or diseased, upon conviction, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any peace officer, animal control officer or agent or officer of the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals or of any humane society duly
incorporated for the purpose of the prevention of cruelty to animals may
destroy or cause to be destroyed any animal found abandoned and for which no
proper care has been given.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1686
CHAPTER 7: BIRD SANCTUARY
Section
   
4-701   Bird sanctuary established
   
4-702   Unlawful to shoot birds
   
4-703   Nuisance birds
§4-701 BIRD SANCTUARY ESTABLISHED.
   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city except the
municipal lake areas is hereby designated as a “bird sanctuary.”
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-702 UNLAWFUL TO SHOOT BIRDS.
   It is unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any
manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests.
(Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
§4-703 NUISANCE BIRDS.
   If starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers
in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health
or property, the property owner or tenant may apply for a city permit to
utilize commercially available audio or visual measures to discourage birds
from roosting. The permit must be approved by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee prior to any discouragement techniques being implemented if such
measures could be annoying to neighbors. The property owner or tenant is
responsible for any costs associated with any attempts to discourage the birds
from congregating.
(Ord. 1563, passed 3-25-2003)
CHAPTER 8: ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND FEES
Section
   
4-801   Animal control officer; authority
   
4-802   Records required
   
4-803   Interference prohibited
   
4-804   Inspection authorized
   
4-805   Authority of City Manager
   
4-806   General penalty; minimum fines
   
4-807   Dead animal pick up; euthanasia
   
4-808   Nuisance declared
§4-801 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Manager may appoint a qualified person or persons as an
animal control officer for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
part. An animal control officer shall, among other things, have the duty to
take up and impound all dogs, cats and other animals running at large, to
safely keep and deposit such animals in the animal shelter or its authorized
agent, require, when applicable, the sterilization of dogs and cats, and
enforce the ordinances prohibiting cruelty and prescribing sanitary enclosures
for animals.
   (B)   An animal control officer or any other law enforcement officer is
authorized to enforce the provisions of this part. In carrying out such duties,
an animal control officer may issue a citation to any person violating the
provisions herein if the animal control officer sees the violation.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-802 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to keep, or cause
to be kept, accurate and detailed records of the impoundment and disposition of
all dogs or cats coming into his or her custody.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to keep, or cause
to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all monies belonging to the city,
which records shall be open to inspection at reasonable times by such persons
responsible for similar records of the city and shall be audited annually in
the same manner as other city records are audited.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-803 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the
animal control officer in the performance of any duty, or seek to release any
animal in the custody of the animal control officer except as provided in this
part.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-804 INSPECTION AUTHORIZED.
   When an animal is believed to be in imminent danger, an animal control
officer may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel
or inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal and take possession of the
same when, in his or her opinion, the animal requires humane treatment.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-805 AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager is authorized to adopt rules and regulations deemed
necessary and proper to the administration of this part and to ensure
compliance by any contractor performing duties pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-806 GENERAL PENALTY; MINIMUM FINES.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this part is punishable by a fine
as prescribed in §
1-108.
   (B)   The minimum fine in the municipal court for the offenses enumerated in
this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   Permitting a dog or cat to run at large as provided in §
4-301: $50 plus costs;
      (2)   Permitting an unvaccinated dog, cat or ferret to run at large as
provided in §
4-420: $200 plus costs;
      (3)   Failing to spay or neuter a dog or cat as provided in §
4-402:
         (a)   First offense: $50 plus costs;
         (b)   Second offense: $100 plus costs; and
         (c)   Each subsequent offense: $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-807 DEAD ANIMAL PICK UP; EUTHANASIA.
   (A)   Dead animals may be picked up from residences by the animal control
officer upon request. However, in the event the carcass is decomposed, swollen
or has burst or is under a house, building or other structure or is in attics
or cannot otherwise be reasonably reached, it is the owner’s responsibility to
dispose of the carcass in a proper manner at his or her expense.
   (B)   Owners may deposit an animal with an animal control officer or city
authorized agent at the animal shelter or its authorized agent providing an
impoundment card is signed releasing custody of the animal to the city. Once
the animal is released to the city, the animal becomes the property of the city
and may be disposed of as provided in this part.
   (C)   Animals will be euthanized at an owner’s request by the Animal Control
Division, provided the owner signs an impoundment card releasing custody of the
animal to the city and upon payment of the fee as provided in the fee schedule.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
§4-808 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The causing or permitting to exist of any violation of the provisions of
this part is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to any other
remedy provided by the terms of this part, the city may abate such nuisance in
accordance with the general powers conferred by state law, the City Charter and
this code.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-8-2000)
PART 5: BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
Chapter
   
1.    GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
2.    BUILDING CODES
   
3.    PLUMBING REGULATIONS
   
4.    ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
   
5.    RESIDENTIAL CODE
   
6.    MECHANICAL CODE
   
7.    MOVING BUILDINGS
   
8.    DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
   
9.    HOUSE NUMBERING
   
10.    FAIR HOUSING
   
11.    OIL AND GAS DRILLING AND PRODUCTION
   
12.    SEWER LINE CONNECTION REGULATIONS
   
13.    BUILDING DEMOLITION
   
14.    PENALTY AND JUDICIAL RELIEF
   
15.    TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
   
16.    RESERVED
   
17.    BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE
   
18.    WATER WELL DRILLING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Article A. Building Official and Inspections
   
5-101   Building Official
   
5-102   Duties of the Building Official
Article B. Building Permits and Certificates of Occupancy
   
5-120   Building permit required
   
5-121   Application
   
5-122   Fees
   
5-123   Certificate of occupancy required
   
5-124   Penalties
Article C. Fire Limits, Rules
   
5-130   Fire limits defined, created
ARTICLE A. BUILDING OFFICIAL AND INSPECTIONS
§5-101 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The office of Building Official is hereby created. The Building Official
shall be appointed by the City Manager. The terms BUILDING INSPECTOR or CODE
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, when used in this code, shall also mean the Building
Official unless another person is designated.
§5-102 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   It is the duty of the Building Official to inspect all construction,
reconstruction and demolition carried on in the city, and, upon request or by
assignment, inspect any existing structure located within the limits of the
city. The Building Official may, as necessary in the performance of his or her
duty, enter in the daytime any building, structure or premises located inside
the corporate limits of the city. The Building Official shall review and
approve or disapprove all plans, drawings and specifications for any
construction proposed in the city, and he or she shall issue building permits
and collect fees and enforce compliance of codes as provided for in the
ordinances of the city. It is the Building Official’s responsibility to issue
permits and perform inspections on the construction and related activities as
specified by other sections of this part and other codes and ordinances of the
city.
ARTICLE B. BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
§5-120 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to construct, enlarge, alter or demolish a structure or
change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to change to another use,
or to install or alter any equipment for which provision is made or the
installation of which is regulated by the city codes, without having first
filed an application with the Building Official in writing and obtaining the
required permit therefor, except as may be otherwise provided by the city’s
Building Code.
§5-121 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a required building permit or certificate of
occupancy shall be made by the owner or lessee of the building or structure, or
agent of either, or by the licensed engineer or architect employed in
connection with the proposed work.
   (B)   If the application is made by a person other than the owner in fee, it
shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner or the qualified
person making the application that the proposed work is authorized by the owner
in fee and that the applicant is authorized to make such application.
   (C)   The full names and addresses of the owner, lessee, applicant and of
the responsible officers, if the owner or lessee is a corporate body, shall be
stated in the application with the information as required in the city’s
Building Code.
§5-122 FEES.
   The fees for a building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be in such
amounts as set by the City Council by motion or resolution.
§5-123 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   No new building shall be occupied and no change in the use of a building or
part of a building or lot, parcel or tract of land shall be made until after
the Building Official shall have issued a certificate of occupancy therefor in
accordance with the codes adopted by this part and the city’s zoning ordinance.
§5-124 PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this part shall
be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in §
1-108. The owner or owners of any buildings or premises or part thereof, where
anything in violation of this part shall be placed or shall exist, and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, person, firm or corporation employed in
connection therewith, and who may have participated or aided in such violation,
shall be guilty of a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
1-108.
ARTICLE C. FIRE LIMITS, RULES
§5-130 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED, CREATED.
   There is hereby established in the city fire limits comprising the area
following: all property within the city in a commercial or industrial zoning
classification.
CHAPTER 2: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
5-201   Building Code adopted
   
5-202   Additions and changes to Building Code
   
5-203   Fee for inspection
§5-201 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   There are hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy and location of buildings and structures, those
certain codes known as the Life Safety Code, NFPA 101 codes or International
Code Council codes, the latest editions thereof and all subsequent amendments
or editions thereto, or other such codes adopted by the International Code
Council in the future, to be used as model building codes, copies of which are
on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-11-2001; Ord. 1793, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 1794, passed
12-10-2019; Ord. 1795, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 1803, passed 12-10-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 14-109 and 74 O.S. § 324.8
§5-202 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the Building Code are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1, insert: City of Duncan;
   (B)   Section 114, insert: amount as set by the City Council by motion or
resolution;
   (C)   Section 114.4, insert: offense, punishable as provided in §
1-108 of the city code of ordinances;
   (D)   Section 118.2, insert: “amount as provided in §
1-108 of the city’s code of ordinances” in both locations;
   (E)   Section 123.2, insert: amount as set by the City Council by motion or
resolution;
   (F)   Section 501.2, insert: the boundaries of the fire limits are provided
in §
5-130 of the city code of ordinances;
   (G)   Section 1807.2.1, insert: depth as set by Building Official;
   (H)   Section 1807.2.2, insert: depth as set by Building Official; and
   (I)   Section 1906.1, insert: $10,000;
   (J)   The Board of Adjustment, as created in Chapter 1, Article B of the
city’s Building Code, shall be the appeal board for all Building Code matters,
with notice to be given in the same form as prescribed in § 12-127 of the city
code except that notice to be given regarding appeals of the Building Code
shall not require notice to be given to property owners within a 300-foot
radius of the subject property unless the appeal shall deal with variations
contemplated by §
12-123 of the city code or exceptions contemplated by §
12-124 of the city code; and
   (K)   Sections 121.2 through 121.7 of the Building Code shall be deleted.
(Ord. 1413, passed 11-26-1996)
§5-203 FEE FOR INSPECTION.
   There shall be an inspection fee charged for inspection. All inspection fees
shall be in such amounts as may be set by the Council by motion or resolution.
CHAPTER 3: PLUMBING REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-301   Plumbing inspector
   
5-302   Duties of plumbing inspector
   
5-303   Registration required, exemptions
   
5-304   Permits
   
5-305   Adoption of Plumbing Code
   
5-306   Additions, insertions and changes to Plumbing Code
   
5-307   Inspection
   
5-308   Failure to comply with plumbing rules
   
5-309   Recourse to plumbers’ surety and penalty
§5-301 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The office of plumbing inspector is hereby created. The plumbing inspector
may be the Building Official or other person appointed by the City Manager in
compliance with the provisions of state law. (Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq. and 1016
§5-302 DUTIES OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   It is the duty of the plumbing inspector to inspect all plumbing and
sewer lines in the city.
   (B)   The plumbing inspector may, as far as necessary in the performance of
his or her duties, enter in the daytime, any building or premises inside the
corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   It is the duty of the plumbing inspector to keep a daily record of all
his or her work, including all notices and applications received, permits and
certificates granted, and all violations of this chapter and other matters
which may pertain thereto.
(Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996)
§5-303 REGISTRATION REQUIRED, EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation, before engaging in the business of
plumbing in the city, shall pay to the City Treasurer a registration fee for
the purpose of regulating the business, the sums as set by Council by motion or
resolution for plumbing contractors, journeymen and apprentices, payable in
advance to be deposited in the General Fund of the city. The registration fee
herein assessed shall be construed to be exacted from each establishment or
place of business in the city, and not from the individual employees of
plumbing contractors, firms or establishments. The city shall issue
certificates and receipts for all sums of money collected under this provision
to the person, firm or corporation paying the same. No certificate or receipt
may be issued until the applicant shows proof of possession of the appropriate
state license. No certificate shall extend beyond the birth date of the
licensee of any year. Any request for renewal of a certificate must be received
by the city within 30 days after the expiration date of the certificate, along
with the required fees and proof of state license. No prorating of the license
is allowed.
   (B)   Exempt from the provisions of this registration requirement are
homeowners performing work at their residence, minor repairs and other
exemptions as specifically provided in the State Plumbing License Law, 59 O.S.
§ 1017.
(Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996; Ord. 1596, passed 1-25-2005)
Cross-reference:
   See also
Chapter 17  of this part.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.
§5-304 PERMITS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to proceed with any
plumbing work, or work connected or to be connected with any pipe or pipes of
the waterworks or sewer system of the city, or any private plumbing connected
or to be connected therewith, until a permit for such work has been obtained
from the plumbing inspector. Included in the permit requirement shall be all
work as defined in the Plumbing Code adopted by the city. The fee for the
issuance of such permit shall be set by the City Council by motion or
resolution, which fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer and shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996)
§5-305 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   A certain document, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Plumbing Code,
the latest edition thereof, and any appendices, revisions or amendments
thereto, as published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International and the International Conference of Building Officials, is hereby
adopted as the Plumbing Code of the city regulating the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of the plumbing
systems. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the Plumbing Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this code, with additions, insertions and
changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996; Ord. 1800, passed 12-10-2019)
§5-306 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Section 100.1 (page 1), insert: the City of Duncan;
      (2)   Section 106.5.2 (page 4), insert: as set by the city;
      (3)   Section 106.5.3 (page 4), insert: as determined by the plumbing
inspector;
      (4)   Section 108.4 (page 6), insert: offense and punished as provided in
§
1-108 of the city’s code of ordinances;
      (5)   Section 108.5 (page 6), insert: as provided in §
1-108 of the city’s code of ordinances; and
      (6)   Section 306.6.1 (page 14), insert: one foot or as otherwise set by
the city.
   (B)   The provisions of the Plumbing Code permitting the use of asbestos
cement pipe for building sewer or building to septic tank or building storm
drain or disposal fields or stack vents shall not be applicable nor allowed in
the city.
   (C)   All pipes leaving the curb cock and used for connecting buildings with
the city water system shall be laid underground and at least 12 inches below
the established grade. Such pipes shall be of galvanized, type K copper pipe or
PVC schedule 40 not less than three-fourths inch in diameter for underground
and type L, copper pipe for general aboveground work.
   (D)   For sewers, three-inch minimum size PVC schedule 40 or cast iron shall
be used in service lines from the sewer to any building.
   (E)   There shall be a backwater valve installed on all new or replacement
sanitary sewer service lines near the junction of the building drain and the
building sewer.
(Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996; Ord. 1595, passed 1-25-2005)
§5-307 INSPECTION.
   All plumbing and drainage of buildings, and all sewer work inside of private
property lines in the city, must be done or installed in accordance with the
provisions of the adopted Plumbing Code and must be inspected by the plumbing
inspector and a certificate of inspection issued therefor, before the same may
be used or connected with any public sewer or water pipeline, and all sewer
connections or other connections to city water or sewer lines must be inspected
by the plumbing inspector before use. The fees shall be as set by the Council
by motion or resolution.
(Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996)
§5-308 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLUMBING RULES.
   Should the plumbing inspector refuse to issue a certificate of approval on
any work due to failure to comply with the plumbing rules and regulations, the
inspector shall notify the person(s) doing the work to make such changes and
revisions as are required to comply with the plumbing rules and regulations.
Such notice shall provide that the required changes and revisions be
accomplished within not more than three days of the date of notice of failure
to comply.
(Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996)
§5-309 RECOURSE TO PLUMBERS’ SURETY AND PENALTY.
   (A)   In the instance of failure or refusal on the part of a plumber to
rectify or change such plumbing so as to cause same to comply with the plumbing
rules and regulations, then, after three days from the time notice was given,
the owner of any house or premises may have recourse against the principal and
sureties on the bond required to be kept on file with the State Department of
Health.
   (B)   In the instance of failure of any person(s) to comply with a notice to
correct, rectify or change plumbing so as to cause same to comply with the
plumbing rules and regulations, following notice from the plumbing inspector,
or in the instance of violation of any provision of the Plumbing Code or the
provisions of this chapter, the plumbing inspector may initiate action for
violation of the plumbing rules and regulations in municipal court. Each day
that such failure to comply or violation is permitted to continue may
constitute a separate offense. Any person found guilty of a violation of the
plumbing rules and regulations may be punished in accordance with the
provisions of §
1-108.
(Ord. 1405, passed 7-31-1996)
CHAPTER 4: ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-401   Electrical Inspector and qualifications
   
5-402   Duties of Electrical Inspector
   
5-403   Work not to be concealed before inspection
   
5-404   Payment of inspection fees
   
5-405   Contractors not to connect until work approved
   
5-406   Exemptions
   
5-407   Right of ingress
   
5-408   Appeal process
   
5-409   National Electrical Code adopted
   
5-410   Registration required; exemptions
   
5-411   Permit necessary for electrical work
   
5-412   Temporary service permits
   
5-413   Temporary pole meter service permits
   
5-414   Penalty
§5-401 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   The office of Electrical Inspector is hereby created. He or she may be the
Building Official unless another person is appointed by the City Manager.
Pursuant to 59 O.S. § 40A, he or she shall have at least three years of active
experience in the electrical industry and shall have no interest, direct or
indirect, in any firm or corporation engaged in the electrical industry.
Pursuant to O.A.C. Title 158, Chapter 60, he or she shall be properly licensed
with the State Construction Industry Board.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-402 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Electrical Inspector to inspect all electrical
installations withing 48 hours after having been notified that work is ready
for inspection, Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays are not
included. It is the duty of the Electrical Inspector to keep a daily record of
all his or her work, including all notices and applications received, permits
and certificates granted, and all violations of this chapter and other matters
which may pertain thereto.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-403 WORK NOT TO BE CONCEALED BEFORE INSPECTION.
   It is unlawful for any persons to conceal or cause to be concealed any
electrical conductors used for electric light, heat or power, until such work
has been approved and a certificate of completion or tag properly signed and
dated, so stating, has been issued by the Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-404 PAYMENT OF INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Inspection fee charges shall be made and collected in such
amounts as set out by the Council by motion or resolution.
      (2)   For failed and after-hour/holiday inspections (see §
5-402), the minimum fee charged shall be one and one-half times the minimum fee
or the schedule of inspection fees, whichever is greater.
      (3)   For reinspection or return trips to reexamine and inspect
electrical work, the minimum fee or the schedule of inspection fees, whichever
is greater, shall be charged. In no event shall the Electrical Inspector allow
or permit electrical installations to be connected to service lines until such
time as all fees for inspection and reinspection have been paid in full.
   (B)   All inspection fees required to be paid under and by virtue of this
chapter shall be paid to the City Treasurer and be placed in the General Fund
in and for the city.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-405 CONTRACTORS NOT TO CONNECT UNTIL WORK APPROVED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or individual
to conceal or cause to be concealed any electrical conductors used for electric
light, heat or power, until such time as they know work has been approved and a
certificate of completion or tag properly signed and dated, so stating, has
been issued by the Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-406 EXEMPTIONS.
   For the installation of telephone or signal systems not using over 12 volts,
no registration or bond will be required as set out hereinafter, but the
installation of same must comply with the Electrical Code adopted by the city.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-407 RIGHT OF INGRESS.
   The Electrical Inspector, while in the discharge of his or her duty, shall
have the authority to enter any building or premises at any reasonable hour,
and any person interfering with the Electrical Inspector while performing his
or her duty shall be guilty of a public offense.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-408 APPEAL PROCESS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall interpret and enforce the electrical codes as
adopted by the city. Any appeals filed with the Building Official shall be
based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed.
The Board shall not have authority to waive the requirements of this code as
adopted by the city.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-409 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The state-wide minimum electrical codes as adopted codes by the State
Uniform Building Code Commission (O.A.C. § 748:20, Subchapter 10) known as the
National Electrical Code, NFPA 70, and/or NEC latest edition (2023), with such
changes and additions amendments, as may be made from time to time, are hereby
made a part of this chapter, and adopted and incorporated herein by reference
as if set out in full herein. At least one copy of the code and list are on
file in the office of the Department of Community Development.
(Ord. 1862, passed 10-8-2024; Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. § 1000.23
§5-410 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   All persons, firms, partnerships, corporations or individuals, engaged
or hereafter engaging in the business of installing electrical fixtures, wiring
or apparatus in or on any building within the corporate limits of the city
(except central power station, powerhouses and substations belonging to the
electric light company) shall procure from the city a certificate of
registration. Upon payment of a fee as set by the City Council and showing
proof of possession of the appropriate and current state license, the
certificate shall entitle the holder to install electrical conductors, fixtures
or apparatus, within the corporate limits of the city until the birth date of
the licensee next succeeding after all provisions of this chapter have been
complied with. An electrical contractor shall pay to the City Treasurer the sum
for registration annually in such amount as set by the Council which shall
entitle the electrical contractor to engage in his or her trade within the
city. Registrations shall be renewed prior to the anniversary date of initial
registration of each year to be considered a renewal and shall expire on the
end of the birth month of the licensee or registrant. Any request for renewal
of a certificate must be received by the city within 30 days after the
expiration date of the certificate, along with the required fees and proof of
state license. No prorating of the license is allowed. Electrical contractors
are responsible for the registration of all licensed journeyman and registered
apprentices working under his or her license.
   (B)   Exempt from the provisions of this registration requirement are owners
of property and minor repairs as defined specifically in State Electrical
License Act, 59 O.S. §§ 1624 through 1641, or the National Electrical Code as
adopted by State Uniform Building Code Commission.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
Cross-reference:
    See also
Chapter 17  of this part
§5-411 PERMIT NECESSARY FOR ELECTRICAL WORK.
   No person, firm or corporation, or officer, receiver, representative or
employee of any corporation shall do, or cause to be done, any interior or
exterior wiring or any construction, installation or alteration of any
electrical wiring apparatus or fixtures within the city without first having
complied with the provisions of this chapter and without first having obtained
a permit for the particular work as required by the Electrical Code from the
Department of Community Development. The Electrical Inspector shall not issue a
stamp of approval or otherwise authorize current connected until the provisions
of this chapter and the Electrical Code of the city have been fully complied
with.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-412 TEMPORARY SERVICE PERMITS.
   The Electrical Inspector may grant temporary electrical service permits for
a period of 90 days with the privilege of extending same at the discretion of
the Electrical Inspector upon the payment of a fee as set by the Council for
each 90 days plus inspection fees.
§5-413 TEMPORARY POLE METER SERVICE PERMITS.
   The Electrical Inspector may grant a permit for temporary pole meter service
for a period not to exceed 180 days with the privilege of extending same at the
discretion of the Electrical Inspector. A fee as set by the Council shall be
paid for each 180 days or less period and for every extension of same, plus
inspection fees.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
§5-414 PENALTY.
   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter or any code adopted
herein shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1863, passed 10-8-2024)
CHAPTER 5: RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
   
5-501   Residential Code adopted
   
5-502   Additions and changes
§5-501 RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The International Residential Code (IRC), the latest edition thereof, and
any amendments thereto, as recommended by the International Code Council, is
hereby adopted as the Housing Code of the city for the control of buildings and
structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations of the
Residential Code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part
of this code by reference, as if fully set out in this code, with the
additions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter. At least
one copy of the code is kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1799, passed 12-10-2019)
§5-502 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES.
   The following sections of the Residential Code are hereby revised as
follows:
   (A)   The City of Duncan shall be inserted for the name of the jurisdiction;
and
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the code shall be as provided in §
1-108 in the city’s code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 6: MECHANICAL CODE
Section
   
5-601   Mechanical Official
   
5-602   Duties of Mechanical Official
   
5-603   Registration required; exemptions
   
5-604   Adoption of Mechanical Code
   
5-605   Additions, insertions and changes to Mechanical Code
   
5-606   Inspection
   
5-607   Failure to comply with mechanical rules
   
5-608   Recourse to mechanical surety and penalty
§5-601 MECHANICAL OFFICIAL.
   The office of Mechanical Official is hereby created. The Mechanical Official
may be the Building Official or other person appointed by the City Manager
meeting the applicable qualifications of state law.
(Ord. 1404, passed 7-31-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. §§ 1850.1 et seq.
§5-602 DUTIES OF MECHANICAL OFFICIAL.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Mechanical Official to inspect all mechanical
work performed in the city.
   (B)   The Mechanical Official may, as far as necessary in the performance of
his or her duties, enter in the daytime, any building or premises inside the
corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   It is the duty of the Mechanical Official to keep a daily record of
all his or her work, including all notices and applications received, permits
and certificates granted, and all violations of this chapter and other matters
which may pertain thereto.
(Ord. 1404, passed 7-31-1996)
§5-603 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation, before engaging in the mechanical
trade in the city shall pay to the City Treasurer a registration fee for the
purpose of regulating the business, the sums as set by Council by motion or
resolution for mechanical contractors, journeymen and apprentices, payable in
advance to be deposited in the General Fund of the city. The registration fee
herein assessed shall be construed to be exacted from each establishment or
place of business in the city, and not from the individual employees of
mechanical contractors, firms or establishments. The city shall issue
certificates and receipts for all sums of money collected under this provision
to the person, firm or corporation paying the same. No certificate or receipt
may be issued until the applicant shows proof of possession of the appropriate
state license. No certificate shall extend beyond the birth date of the
licensee of any year. Any request for renewal of a certificate must be received
by the city within 30 days after the expiration date of the certificate, along
with the required fees and proof of state license. No prorating of the license
is allowed.
   (B)   Exempt from the provisions of this registration requirement are owners
of property and minor repairs as defined specifically in the State Mechanical
License Law, 59 O.S. §§ 1850.1 et seq.
(Ord. 1404, passed 7-31-1996; Ord. 1596, passed 1-25-2005)
Cross-reference:
    See also
Chapter 17  of this part
§5-604 ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE.
   A certain document, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Mechanical
Code, the latest edition thereof, and any appendices, revisions or amendments
thereto, as published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International and the International Conference of Building Officials, is hereby
adopted as the Mechanical Code of the city regulating the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of the mechanical
systems. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the Mechanical Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this code, with additions, insertions and
changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 1404, passed 7-31-1996; Ord. 1801, passed 12-10-2019)
§5-605 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO MECHANICAL CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 (page 1), insert: the City of Duncan;
   (B)   Section 106.5.2 (page 4), insert: as set by the city;
   (C)   Section 106.5.3 (page 4), insert: as determined by the Mechanical
Official;
   (D)   Section 108.4 (page 5), insert: offense and punished as provided in §
1-108 of the city’s code of ordinances; and
   (E)   Section 108.5 (page 5), insert: as provided in §
1-108 of the city’s code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1404, passed 7-31-1996)
§5-606 INSPECTION.
   All mechanical work and installations inside of private property lines in
the city must be done or installed in accordance with the provisions of the
adopted Mechanical Code and must be inspected by the Mechanical Official and a
certificate of inspection issued therefor, before the same may be used. The
fees shall be as set by the Council by motion or resolution.
(Ord. 1404, passed 7-31-1996)
§5-607 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH MECHANICAL RULES.
   Should the Mechanical Official refuse to issue a certificate of approval on
any work due to failure to comply with the mechanical rules and regulations the
official shall notify the person(s) doing the work to make such changes and
revisions as are required to comply with the mechanical rules and regulations.
Such notice shall provide that the required changes and revisions be
accomplished within not more than three days of the date of notice of failure
to comply.
(Ord. 1404, passed 7-31-1996)
§5-608 RECOURSE TO MECHANICAL SURETY AND PENALTY.
   (A)   In the instance of failure or refusal on the part of a mechanical
contractor to rectify or change such mechanical work so as to cause same to
comply with the mechanical rules and regulations, then, after three days from
the time notice was given, the owner of any house or premises may have recourse
against the principal and sureties on the bond required to be kept on file with
the State Department of Health.
   (B)   In the instance of failure of any person(s) to comply with a notice to
correct, rectify or change mechanical work so as to cause same to comply with
the mechanical rules and regulations, following notice from the Mechanical
Official, or in the instance of violation of any provision of the Mechanical
Code or the provisions of this chapter, the Mechanical Official may initiate
action for violation of the mechanical rules and regulations in municipal
court. Each day that such failure to comply or violation is permitted to
continue may constitute a separate offense. Any person found guilty of a
violation of the mechanical rules and regulations may be punished in accordance
with the provisions of §
1-108.
(Ord. 1404, passed 7-31-1996)
CHAPTER 7: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
5-701   Permit required; fee
   
5-702   Application and fees for permit
   
5-703   Bond required for permit
   
5-704   Caution signs
   
5-705   Protection of trees and overhead structures
   
5-706   Guards against danger
   
5-707   Limit to size of building
   
5-708   Time limit
   
5-709   No permit issued, when
   
5-710   Notice to Fire, Police Departments
   
5-711   Liability
§5-701 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership or
individual to move or cause to be moved on the streets or alleys of the city
any house or building, or part thereof, or any similar structure, without
having first obtained from the Building Official a permit therefor. The
applicant for a permit shall pay the City Treasurer a sum as set by the City
Council for each such permit and shall deposit with the City Treasurer of the
city a good and sufficient bond as required in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership or
individual to move or cause to be moved any house or building, or part thereof,
or any similar structure, on the streets or alleys of the city without having
first obtained such permit, paid such permit fee and deposited such bond with
the city.
§5-702 APPLICATION AND FEES FOR PERMIT.
   The permit shall be obtained by making application therefor in writing. The
written application shall recite the character of the thing or object to be
moved and transported along or through and upon the streets and avenues, the
proposed route of such transportation and the place where any equipment used in
effecting such transportation shall be placed and secured.
§5-703 BOND REQUIRED FOR PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued as by the terms of this chapter until such time as
the applicant shall have deposited with the officer issuing such permit a cash
bond in such sum as may be reasonably necessary to protect the city and cover
all loss from damage accruing to it or its citizens by reason of any negligence
or improper occupancy of the streets, sidewalks and any and all property
therein. Any negligence or improper occupancy of the streets, sidewalks or
other public places shall be provided against in the bond and such bond shall
be deposited upon the understanding that it is to cover all of the conditions
as set forth in this section. All such persons as described herein, engaged as
principals in the business herein described, shall file a surety bond to be
approved by the city in the sum of $1,000 conditioned, that such person shall
save, indemnify and keep harmless the city against any and all liabilities,
judgments, damages, costs and expenses which may in any way accrue against the
city, in consequence of the granting of such permit or while acting under the
same, and will under all circumstances strictly comply with the terms of such
license and permit. Any such surety bond shall not be in any manner affected by
the fact of the cash deposit and bond required hereunder. Any such person as
referred to herein or his or her laborer, servant or agent or employee, shall
cause a sufficient passageway to be kept open for vehicles to pass on one side
or both sides of any building, structure, edifice, object or thing, while the
same is being moved upon any street, avenue or alley, and when possible, the
same shall be kept moving each day unless the actual elements render this
impossible.
§5-704 CAUTION SIGNS.
   It is the duty of the permittee to place warning lights plainly visible for
not less than 200 feet on each and every side of the building or structure
which is being moved at the close of day and to keep same on throughout the
entire night and until one hour after sunrise on the morning following. Such
lights shall be so placed and maintained that the view of same will not be in
any sense obstructed. If necessary, as many additional lights as may be
necessary shall be placed at such other points on the building or structure as
will enable any person of reasonable and ordinary prudence to take notice of
the obstruction.
§5-705 PROTECTION OF TREES AND OVERHEAD STRUCTURES.
   The person who may have a permit to move a building or structure over any
street within the city shall by virtue of such permit and license derive no
right to injure or impair the condition or usefulness of any shade tree,
electric light, telephone or telegraph poles or lines. No tree of any kind
shall be cut, bruised, scarred under any circumstances, without the expressed
permission in writing of the owner of the same and with the permission of the
Building Official or Public Works Director. In all cases where necessary to
remove any electric light, telephone or telegraph construction, it shall be the
duty of the person moving such building or structure to give not less than 24
hours’ notice to the public utility company or person owning or operating the
same, which notice shall state the place, the construction which it is
necessary to be removed, or temporarily changed or altered and the day on which
it is desired to have such clearance made as well as the amount of time it will
be necessary to keep such space clear. It is the duty of the person moving the
building or structure to deposit an amount of money estimated necessary to
cover the cost of the changing or moving of public utility overhead
construction and replacing the same in its former condition in a sum as set by
the city with the City Treasurer. Upon such deposit being made with the City
Treasurer, and such notice being delivered to the owner or operator of the
telephone or telegraph and line construction, it is the duty of the person
owning or operating the overhead construction to make such temporary changes as
are reasonably necessary to comply with the representations set forth in the
notice made and delivered to him or her.
§5-706 GUARDS AGAINST DANGER.
   It is the duty of the house mover to station sufficient persons on guard and
to establish such notices by placards or boards in the immediate vicinity of
the moving activities as will be necessary to apprise any reasonable person of
any potential danger that might be incurred by coming closer to the moving
operations or buildings being moved or the instruments or agencies used in the
moving of the same.
§5-707 LIMIT TO SIZE OF BUILDING.
   No permit shall be issued to move any building which in the judgment of the
Building Official or Public Works Director might by any chance result in an
injury to the pavements, bridges, conduits or other street improvements within
the city.
§5-708 TIME LIMIT.
   At the time of application for a permit, it is the duty of the mover of any
building or structure to estimate the reasonable time required for the moving
of the building from its present location to its proposed location and shall
state in his or her application for permit what he or she deems to be such
reasonable time. The mover shall bind himself or herself to pay a sum as set by
the city per day for each and every day, all or any part of which the building
or structure remains on the street in excess of the number of days allowed in
the permit, and his or her cash deposit in addition to his or her bond shall be
made liable for the payment of the amount. Nothing but an act of God shall be a
defense against the payment of the sums.
§5-709 NO PERMIT ISSUED, WHEN.
   The city shall not issue any permit on any day, which according to the
estimated number of days required to move the building or structure, shall when
counted from the date of the permit include a Sunday or legal holiday; provided
that this shall apply where the permit includes and provides that the persons
moving such house shall begin on the day of the permit. When a day is set on
which the person moving the building shall begin to move the same and the day
is different from the date of issuing the permit, then no permit shall be
issued in such a way to include a Sunday or holiday within the time allowed for
moving the building. Where the number of days shall exceed five, the provisions
of this section shall not apply.
§5-710 NOTICE TO FIRE, POLICE DEPARTMENTS.
   Any person desiring to move any building shall show his or her permit to the
Chiefs of the Fire and Police Departments. If for any reason any delay is
occasioned by any unforeseen contingency, it is his or her duty to inform the
Fire and Police Chiefs, of such facts, to the end that the Fire and Police
Chiefs may keep accurate and recent information on the true conditions of the
streets and alleys for fire prevention purposes.
§5-711 LIABILITY.
   No provision or condition of this chapter shall be construed so as to limit
the liability civilly of any person moving any house on or over the city
streets, avenues and alleys from any and all damages which may result as the
proximate cause of such acts to any person or his or her property or to the
city.
CHAPTER 8: DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
Section
   
5-801   Nuisance declared; report to be made
   
5-802   Definitions
   
5-803   Removal; boarding and securing; adoption of state law
   
5-804   Method of abatement
   
5-805   Collection of costs
   
5-806   Clearing premises from which buildings have been removed
   
5-807   Penalty
§5-801 NUISANCE DECLARED; REPORT TO BE MADE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any person to suffer
or permit on premises within the city any dilapidated or unsecured buildings as
defined herein.
   (B)   Any officer or employee of the city who discovers or receives a report
or complaint of a dilapidated or unsecured building shall report such
conditions to the Building Official or such other department or official as the
City Manager may designate. Upon receiving and verifying the report or
equivalent information from any reliable source, said official shall abate such
conditions as provided in this chapter or in any other manner as this code
provides.
(Ord. 1503, passed 4-25-2000)
§5-802 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary repairs
or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent that the
structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general public;
      (2)   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety and welfare of the general public;
      (3)   A structure which is determined by the administrative officer of
the City Council to be an unsecured building, as defined herein, more than
three times within any 12-month period;
      (4)   A structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined herein,
for more than 36 consecutive months; or
      (5)   A structure otherwise declared by the City Council to constitute a
public nuisance.
   UNSECURED BUILDING. Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or
equitable owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and into
which there are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked
windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the
roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
(Ord. 1503, passed 4-25-2000)
§5-803 REMOVAL; BOARDING AND SECURING; ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   The provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-112, and all subsequent amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted for the removal and dismantling of dilapidated
buildings. Notice of the hearing to determine whether a building is dilapidated
shall be given concurrently by posting a copy of the notice on the property
affected and by mail to the property owner and mortgage holder, if any, without
necessity for publication.
   (B)   The provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-112.1 and all subsequent amendments
thereto are hereby adopted for the boarding and securing of unsecured
buildings. Notice of the hearing to determine whether an unsecured building
should be boarded and secured shall be given in the same manner as for the
removal of dilapidated buildings. Said notice may be given concurrently with
notice of other hearings on the condition of the property or dilapidated
buildings thereon and may include additional notice of summary abatement, if
anticipated.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized to carry
out the duties of the City Council for the removal, dismantling or boarding and
securing of dilapidated or unsecured buildings, and for the assessment of costs
incurred in the abatement thereof. The City Manager may continue a hearing from
time to time for the convenience of the parties. An appeal from any order of
the City Manager may be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the City
Clerk within ten days after the order is rendered.
(Ord. 1503, passed 4-25-2000)
§5-804 METHOD OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The City Manager may accomplish the removal, dismantling or boarding
and securing of buildings by force account or private contract, and he or she
is authorized to execute contracts in furtherance of the same.
   (B)   If done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder according to such rules and regulations as the City
Council may prescribe.
(Ord. 1503, passed 4-25-2000)
§5-805 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   At any time prior to the collection of costs for removal, dismantling
or boarding and securing as provided by law, the city may pursue any civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon, including an
action in personam against the owner and an action in rem to foreclose the
city’s lien against the property.
   (B)   Upon receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk shall forward to the
County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
(Ord. 1503, passed 4-25-2000)
§5-806 CLEARING PREMISES FROM WHICH BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN REMOVED.
   In all cases in which a house or building has been completely or partially
removed, dismantled or demolished upon the volition of the owner, or pursuant
to this code, or as otherwise provided by state law, then the owner or owners
of the premises shall have the premises cleaned up and left entirely free from
trash, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   The removal of all lumber, brick, concrete, cement, plaster, nails,
wire and other materials;
   (B)   Filling in any cellar space and excavations;
   (C)   Filling in or safely and securely closing any cistern or well, and
plugging all openings to the sanitary sewer according to the requirements of
the plumbing inspector; and
   (D)   Leveling the premises.
(Ord. 1503, passed 4-25-2000)
§5-807 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that maintains a public nuisance as provided
herein, or that fails or refuses to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, shall be guilty of an offense against the city and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1503, passed 4-25-2000)
CHAPTER 9: HOUSE NUMBERING
Section
   (Reserved by Ord. 1826, passed 3-8-2022)
CHAPTER 10: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
5-1001   Purposes and construction
   
5-1002   Housing discrimination acts prohibited
   
5-1003   Exemptions
   
5-1004   Fair Housing Board created
   
5-1005   Duties of Fair Housing Board
   
5-1006   Procedure for complaints
   
5-1007   Notices
   
5-1008   Penalty
§5-1001 PURPOSES AND CONSTRUCTION.
   The general purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   (B)   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare.
§5-1002 HOUSING DISCRIMINATION ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, real estate broker, real estate salesperson
or corporation:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title
or other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential
housing is to be constructed to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status
or disability;
   (B)   To refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or leasing
of any residential property, or to represent that such property is not
available for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, because of such person’s race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, age, familial status or disability;
   (C)   To solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person
owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not
to sell, rent or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss of
value due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person
or persons of another race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
familial status or disability, either by direct solicitation or inducement or
by the purchase of other property in the neighborhood for the purpose of such
inducement, or to distribute, or cause to be distributed, material or making
statements designed to induce a residential property owner to sell or lease his
or her property due to such change in neighborhood; or
   (D)   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with
knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment.
§5-1003 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall apply to:
   (A)   Prohibit persons from giving preference to prospective buyers or
tenants for any reason other than race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, age, familial status or disability;
   (B)   The sale of a dwelling which is, or was at the time when first offered
for sale, the residence of its owner;
   (C)   The rental of rooms in an owner occupied residence or in a dwelling
used exclusively as a rooming house;
   (D)   The rental or leasing of a housing unit in a building containing no
more than eight housing units; or
   (E)   The rental or leasing of a dwelling or housing unit owned by any
religious or fraternal organization or private club used and occupied for such
organizational purposes.
§5-1004 FAIR HOUSING BOARD CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board of the city, hereinafter
referred to as “Board,” which shall be the City Council.
§5-1005 DUTIES OF FAIR HOUSING BOARD.
   It is the duty of the Fair Housing Board to:
   (A)   Initiate, receive and investigate complaints charging unlawful housing
practices;
   (B)   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings of
fact and publish its findings of fact; and
   (C)   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary within the limits
of this chapter and carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter.
§5-1006 PROCEDURE FOR COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practice prohibited by this
chapter may file with the Fair Housing Board a complaint in writing, under
oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be aggrieved and
shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have violated the
provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the particulars of the
violation, and may include such other information as may be required by the
Board. Complaints filed under this section must be filed within 30 days after
the alleged violation, and failure to file within the time shall be considered
a waiver of the application of this chapter. The Board may issue a complaint on
its own initiative, at any time it is within the knowledge of the Board that a
person has violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall investigate each complaint filed with the Board and
shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of conference and
conciliation. Sixty days shall be allowed for the purpose of investigation,
conference and conciliation. Upon determination that a complaint is not well
founded, the Board shall dismiss the complaint and notify the complainant and
respondent in writing of the dismissal. If the Board takes no action within 90
days of the filing of the complaint, it shall be considered as dismissed.
   (C)   If conference or conciliation does not result in compliance with this
chapter, the Board shall cause to be issued and served in the name of the city
a written notice, together with a copy of the complaint, requiring the person
named in the complaint, hereinafter referred to as respondent, to answer
charges of the complaint at a hearing before the Board at a time and place to
be specified in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   At the hearing, provided for in division (C) above, the
complaint shall be heard by the Board. At the hearing, the complainant or
person aggrieved may appear in person or by counsel, and the respondent may
file a written answer to the complaint and may appear in person or by legal
counsel. The Board, when conducting any hearing pursuant to this section, may
permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony taken at the
hearing shall be under oath, and shall be transcribed at the request of either
party, or at the direction of the Board. If the Board finds at the hearing that
the respondent has engaged in any discriminatory practice or practices
prohibited by this chapter, it shall state its findings of fact, and shall so
certify the matter to the City Attorney for appropriate action. No prosecution
shall be brought under this chapter except upon such certification.
      (2)   If the Board, upon hearing, finds that respondent has not engaged
in any discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of fact and shall
issue and file an order dismissing the complaint. The Board shall establish
rules and regulations to govern and expedite and effectuate the foregoing
procedure and shall maintain the files provided for herein.
§5-1007 NOTICES.
   Any and all notices required under the provisions of this chapter to be
served upon any person may be served personally on such person, or by mailing a
copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, to
the most current business or residence address of such person.
§5-1008 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. Any person found guilty of violating any provisions
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and is subject, upon conviction, to
punishment as provided in §
1-108.
CHAPTER 11: OIL AND GAS DRILLING AND PRODUCTION
Section
   
5-1101   Definitions
   
5-1102   Public nuisance
   
5-1103   Permits required
   
5-1104   Location of wells
   
5-1105   Permit fees
   
5-1106   Drilling permits
   
5-1107   Production permits
   
5-1108   Completion and plugging reports
   
5-1109   Permit amendment or conversion
   
5-1110   Application review
   
5-1111   Permit issuance
   
5-1112   Compliance bond
   
5-1113   Liability insurance
   
5-1114   Drilling and production regulations
   
5-1115   Premises to be maintained and enclosed
   
5-1116   Emergency actions
   
5-1117   Appeals
   
5-1118   Penalty and enforcement
§5-1101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED WELL.
      (1)   A well in which no production casing has been run and for which
drilling or testing operations have ceased for 30 consecutive days; or
      (2)   Any other well for which there is no current production or drilling
permit.
   CITY. Duncan, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation.
   CITY MANAGER. The person currently serving in the capacity of City Manager
for the city, or such person or persons as the City Manager may designate to
perform the duties assigned to the City Manager under the provisions of this
chapter.
   CORPORATION COMMISSION. The Corporation Commission of the state.
   DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE. Any chemical, salt water, oil field brine, oil,
gasoline or other oil product, waste oil, waste emulsified oil, basic sediment,
drilling or rotary mud or injurious substances produced or used in the
drilling, development, producing, transportation, refining and process of oil,
gas or condensate.
   OIL OR GAS WELL, WELL. Any well, hole or bore, of any depth for the purpose
of production or disposal of oil, gas, casing head gas or liquefied matter or
any byproducts thereof, or for the injection or disposal of any of the
foregoing.
   PERMIT HOLDER (PERMITTEE). Any person to whom is issued a permit under the
terms of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association, trust,
cooperative or other similar organization.
   POLLUTION. The contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical
or biological properties of any natural waters of the city, or such discharge
of any liquid, gaseous or solid substance into any water of the city as will,
or is likely to, create a nuisance or render such waters harmful or detrimental
or injurious to:
      (1)   Public health, safety or welfare;
      (2)   Domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational or
other beneficial uses; or
      (3)   Livestock, animals or aquatic life.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma, its branches, departments, agencies, boards
and commissions, or the officers thereof.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1102 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whereas the imprudent operation of an oil or gas well and related
production facilities can constitute a menace to the public health, safety and
welfare of the city, it is the intent and purpose of this chapter that oil and
gas production operations be reasonably regulated for the public good.
   (B)   Therefore, the drilling, mining or production of oil, gas or other
minerals within the corporate limits, except in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, is hereby declared a nuisance against the public health,
safety and welfare of the city.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1103 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to engage in any work
incident to the drilling of an oil or gas well, opening or reentry of an
abandoned oil or gas well unless a permit for drilling, opening or reentry
shall have been first obtained as provided by the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to maintain or
operate an oil and gas well or related production facilities or to engage in
the work incident to the maintenance and operation of the same without a valid
production permit therefor as provided by the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Operators of producing wells within the corporate limits of the
city on the effective date of this chapter, or upon the effective date of any
subsequent annexation, shall be notified of the production permit requirements
of this chapter and shall apply for a production permit therefor within 60 days
of such notice.
      (2)   Approval of such permit shall be conditioned upon compliance with
the provisions of this chapter within 90 days of permit approval.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1104 LOCATION OF WELLS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drill, mine or produce or cause to be
drilled, mined or produced, any oil, gas or other minerals within the corporate
limits of the city, except where permitted under the zoning ordinance of the
city, and in compliance with the terms in this chapter.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for the drilling of a well or reentry of an
abandoned well at any location which is within 150 feet of a surface property
boundary line other than a street right-of-way or within 400 feet of any
residence, commercial building, church, school, building intended for human
occupancy or freshwater well. Distances prescribed shall be measured from the
proposed permanent enclosure of the facility.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for the drilling of a well or reentry of an
abandoned well within the right-of-way of a public street or within the
projected right-of-way or within a building setback line of any existing or
proposed street as identified in the major street plan of the city or other
plan, ordinance or document establishing the same.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
maintenance, operation or reworking of a well for which a production permit has
been maintained in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1105 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The permit fee for drilling, opening or reentry of a well shall
be as set by Council for each well. Permit fees shall be payable upon permit
application.
      (2)   No action in review of a permit application shall be taken without
the payment of such fee to the City Treasurer. Should an application for permit
for drilling, opening or reentry of a well be denied or withdrawn the City
Treasurer shall refund the permit fee less $100 held for application processing
fee.
   (B)   There shall be no fee for production permits.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1106 DRILLING PERMITS.
   Applications for permits to drill an original well or reenter an abandoned
well shall be submitted in the form and shall include such information as the
City Manager shall require to assure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Applications shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following information:
   (A)   Site surveys and plot maps showing the location of the well and
surrounding surface property lines and buildings and existing oil, gas and
freshwater wells within 400 feet of the site;
   (B)   Plot maps indicating the proposed location of enclosures to be
provided should a producing well be established;
   (C)   A complete copy of the notice of intent to drill as submitted to the
State Corporation Commission, including a drilling prognosis to specify in
detail the amount, weight and size of conductor pipe and surface pipe and the
procedures to be used for cementing such and plugging procedures to be used in
the event production is not established; and
   (D)   Affidavit identifying the name, title, address and phone number of the
service agent for the applicant.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1107 PRODUCTION PERMITS.
   (A)   Initial applications for production permits shall be submitted in a
form prescribed by the City Manager. Applications shall describe each lease
maintained by the applicant within the city and the surface facilities
associated with such lease, including each well thereon and any associated
surface facilities. To the extent practical, the information requested shall be
provided in the form of spill prevention control and countermeasure plans and
Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act (SARA Title III) reports.
   (B)   Production permit renewals shall be issued upon verification that the
information of record is current and accurate and receipt of insurance and bond
renewals. Notice of renewal and request for verification of information shall
be provided to the permit holder not less than 30 days prior to the expiration
of the production permit.
   (C)   Production permits shall expire on the expiration or anniversary date
of the liability insurance policy required in §
5-1113.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1108 COMPLETION AND PLUGGING REPORTS.
   (A)   The holder of any permit under the provisions of this chapter shall
provide the city with copies of all reports and documentation required by the
State Corporation Commission in relation to the completion or plugging of a
well, excluding well logs. Information provided to the State Corporation
Commission shall be provided to the city within 48 hours of filing with the
Commission.
   (B)   Surface casing shall be set in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the State Corporation Commission or Water Resources Board in all
respects. The permittee shall furnish evidence of compliance, casing logs, upon
request by the city. Such request for casing logs may be made a condition of
drilling permit approval.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1109 PERMIT AMENDMENT OR CONVERSION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completion or plugging report, as required in §
5-1108, the City Manager shall cause the inspection of the permitted facility
in question for compliance with the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   In the instance of a completed well, the drilling permit shall remain
in force and effect until the site shall be in compliance with the applicable
production permit provisions of this chapter, or the permit term expires. Upon
compliance with the terms of this chapter, the City Manager shall approve the
conversion of the drilling permit to a production permit.
   (C)   In the instance of a plugging report, the permitted facility shall be
removed from those maintained under the permit holder’s production permit,
provided that the site has been appropriately abandoned.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1110 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   Applications for permits required by this chapter shall be reviewed by
the City Manager for compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter
and approved or denied based upon such review.
   (B)   (1)   Should the City Manager find deficiencies or violations of the
provisions of this chapter in review of an application for production permits,
the applicant shall be notified of such deficiencies and advised that the
permit application shall be held in abeyance until such deficiencies are
corrected
      (2)    Such notice shall provide that production from such sites shall
not continue beyond the expiration date of the previous production permit.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1111 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Permits approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be issued by the City Manager and shall:
      (1)   Be issued only after submission of such bonds and certificates of
insurance in amounts as provided for elsewhere in this chapter;
      (2)   Incorporate by reference all provisions of this chapter with the
same force and effect as if reproduced verbatim therein;
      (3)   Incorporate by reference all provisions of applicable law and the
rules, regulations and standards adopted in accordance therewith relating to
the protection of human beings, animals and natural resources, including those
of the State Corporation Commission, Water Resources Board, Department of
Environmental Quality and Environmental Protection Agency; and
      (4)   Specify that the term of the permit shall be for a period of one
year from the anniversary date of liability insurance required herein and shall
be renewed for like periods thereafter upon application and successful
inspection of the permitted facility as provided in this chapter or until such
time as the facility is properly plugged and abandoned in accordance with the
terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Permits shall be issued in two originals signed by the City Manager
and the applicant, one of which shall be maintained by each signatory.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1112 COMPLIANCE BOND.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply to any holder or applicant
for a drilling or production permit:
      (1)   Required to post or maintain a similar surety for plugging and site
remediation with the State Corporation Commission; or
      (2)   Found in violation of the provisions of this chapter within the
past three consecutive production permit terms.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit as required in this chapter, the
applicant shall provide a bond, executed by a reliable insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, with the issuing company as surety and
the applicant as principal, running to the city for the benefit of the city and
all persons concerned, conditioned that the principal shall:
      (1)   Comply with the terms and conditions of this chapter;
      (2)   Promptly pay fines, penalties and other assessments imposed upon
the permit holder by reason of breach of any provisions and conditions of this
chapter;
      (3)   Promptly restore streets, sidewalks and other public property of
the city which may be disturbed or damaged in the permittee’s operations to
their former conditions;
      (4)   Upon completion of drilling, opening and reentry operations, or
plugging operations, grade level and restore the property to the same surface
conditions as existed prior to commencing operations, as practicably as
possible, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   Maintain the site free of litter, trash, waste and other substances
or material not essential to the maintenance and operation of facility; and
      (6)   Hold harmless the city from any liability attributable to granting
the permit.
   (C)   The compliance bond required in this section shall become effective on
or before the date filed with the city and remain in force and effect for at
least 12 months after the expiration of permit term.
   (D)   The amount of the compliance bond required in this section shall be in
a principal amount of $15,000 with respect to any holder of a drilling permit.
   (E)   The amount of the compliance bond required in this section shall be in
a principal amount of $5,000 for such period as the permit holder maintains the
production permit.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1113 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Each holder of a permit under the terms of this chapter shall carry a
policy or policies of standard comprehensive public liability insurance,
including contractual liability, covering bodily injuries and property damage,
naming the permit holder and the city, issued by an insurer authorized to do
business within the state. The policy or policies shall in the aggregate
provide the following minimum coverage:
      (1)   Bodily injuries: $100,000 per person and $1,000,000 per accident;
and
      (2)   Property damage: $500,000.
   (B)   Certificates of insurance submitted in compliance with the provisions
of this section shall provide that the policy shall not be canceled without
notice to the city at least 15 days prior to the effective date of such
cancellation.
   (C)   In the event the policy is canceled, the permit or permits held in
conjunction therewith shall immediately thereupon terminate without any action
on the part of the city and the permittee’s rights to operation under such
permits shall cease until permit holder files additional insurance bonds or
surety as required herein.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1114 DRILLING AND PRODUCTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Persons drilling, operating or maintaining any oil and gas well shall
use all necessary care and take all precautions which shall be reasonably
necessary under the circumstances to protect the public. The provisions of this
section shall be deemed to be the minimum requirements for the preservation of
the public health, safety and welfare, and compliance with the terms hereof
shall not be deemed to relieve any person of any additional duty or liability
imposed by law.
   (B)   The drilling, operation or maintenance of any oil or gas well and
related facilities shall be subject to the following regulations, and
violations thereof are hereby declared unlawful and an offense.
      (1)   No deleterious substance shall be disposed of by draining or
diverting the same into or upon any public highway, street or alley, drainage
ditch, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, gutter or paving; nor shall any of such
substance be permitted to escape from the property owned, leased or controlled
by the person conducting such operations by seepage or overflow.
      (2)   No steam engine, gasoline, natural gas, diesel or other internal
combustion engine shall be operated without being muffled.
      (3)   All permits for drilling, opening or reentry of a well shall
prescribe the use of blowout prevention unless specifically exempted by the
City Council.
      (4)   No earthen pits shall be permitted without the review and approval
of the City Council. All metal pits or other pits and their contents shall be
removed from the premises within 60 days after completion of the well.
      (5)   (a)   All storage tanks or other tanks intended to contain
inflammable substances shall be protected by earthen embankments constructed in
compliance with the provisions of the spill prevention containment and
countermeasure plan requirements as promulgated by the environmental protection
agency.
         (b)   No such tanks shall be erected or installed nearer to any
surface property boundary or structure than permitted in accordance with §
5-1104.
      (6)   Approved equipment, devices and methods for the safety of life and
property, such as are commonly known in the oil drill and producing business,
must be used in the city in the carrying on of all the operations covered by
this chapter, and the failure to use any such equipment, devices or methods in
any substantially important question shall be a grounds for immediately
stopping further work until such failure has been corrected.
      (7)   Derricks, metal pits and other equipment not necessary to
production shall be removed from a permitted well site within 60 days of the
cessation of drilling.
      (8)   No pipeline, power transmission system, communications system or
other facility shall be erected or installed upon, within or under any public
right-of-way except in accordance with such permits as may be required by the
city.
      (9)   Permits for drilling or reentry of wells may include provisions
requiring compliance with adopted standards for driveway improvements.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1115 PREMISES TO BE MAINTAINED AND ENCLOSED.
   (A)   The premises of any well and associated surface facilities shall be
kept free from accumulations of rubbish, litter, tall weeds and grass, unused
materials or equipment, excessive rotary mud and waste oil or oily substances
or other deleterious substance, as far as such premises may be reasonably kept
free of the same in the carrying on of operations.
   (B)   (1)   All surface facilities associated with oil and gas production
shall be secured by a fence of not less than six feet in height provided with
three strands of barbed wire affixed to the top thereof.
      (2)   Such fence shall be constructed and maintained so as to ordinarily
keep persons and animals out of the enclosure in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Such fence shall be of nine-gauge wire mesh material or such
other material as may be approved within the terms and conditions of the
permit.
         (b)   The enclosure shall provide no openings of greater than four
inches in any dimension, including any separation between the bottom of the
fence and adjacent grade.
         (c)   Fences and gates shall be kept locked when the permit holder or
his or her employees are not within the enclosure.
         (d)   The provisions of this section may be complied with by the
provision of a single enclosure of multiple surface facilities or individual
enclosures for each surface facility in accordance with plans submitted and
approved in conjunction with permit review and approval procedures.
   (C)   All lease equipment shall be painted and maintained in a good state of
condition, operation and appearance.
   (D)   Each enclosure, as required above, shall have posted in a prominent
place a metal sign of no less than two square feet in area upon which the
following information shall be conspicuous:
      (1)   Name of operator;
      (2)   Lease name;
      (3)   Location of site by reference to the United States survey;
      (4)   Identify number of permits issued by the city; and
      (5)   A current emergency response phone number.
   (E)   Each enclosure, as required above, shall have hazard warning signs
prominently posted so as to be clearly visible from all approaches to the
enclosure. Such signs shall be not less than two square feet in area.
   (F)   All tanks or vessels equipped with thief or similar hatches shall be
fitted with mechanisms permitting the locking thereof and shall be maintained
locked except in the presence of the operator’s employees or agents.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1116 EMERGENCY ACTIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her appointee shall have the authority to
require the immediate shutting in or closing of any well if it is found that
there exists within a 100-foot radius of the enclosure of any facility or well,
any flammable or explosive vapor in a quantity sufficient to constitute, in his
or her judgment or the judgment of the Fire Marshal, a fire hazard or health
hazard.
   (B)   If the city finds that a hazard to life or natural resources exists,
the City Manager or his or her appointee shall order immediate rectification of
the cause. If the permit holder takes no immediate action to reduce a hazard,
or if the situation be so perilous as to constitute an imminent threat to
safety, then the City Manager or his or her appointee may order the prompt
cessation of activity and, if necessary, the clearing of the premises.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1117 APPEALS.
   Applicants aggrieved by any order, directive or ruling by the City Manager
or his or her appointee under the provisions of this chapter may appeal the
same to the City Council, which shall hear the matter at its next scheduled
meeting, provided that the aggrieved party has submitted a written appeal to
the City Manager not less than five workdays prior to such meeting. The lodging
of such an appeal shall not stay the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter. Any appeal of the provisions of this chapter involving a request for
variation of the provisions of this chapter relating to the location of wells
shall require not less than 15 days’ notice of hearing to all surface owners of
property within 600 feet of the site in question.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
§5-1118 PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of the provisions of this chapter may be
punished as provided in §
1-108. Each day in which a violation continues may constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty prescribed above, the city may, upon
direction of the City Council, seek compliance with the provisions of this
chapter through action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1383, passed 10-24-1995)
CHAPTER 12: SEWER LINE CONNECTION REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-1201   Definitions
   
5-1202   Defective and prohibited connections
   
5-1203   Administrative procedure
   
5-1204   Corrective action
§5-1201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEFECTIVE SERVICE LINE. A line transporting wastewater from a user facility
to the public wastewater collection system that in addition allows the entrance
of infiltration or inflow.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the publicly owned treatment works at any
location, public or private, by permeation through the ground and subsequent
entry through defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, manhole walls or
similar such means of passage.
   INFLOW. Water entering the publicly owned treatment works at any location,
public or private, by means of surface stormwater or irrigation runoff, or
piped transportation of such waters.
   PROHIBITED CONNECTION. Any piping arrangement or transportation system that
conveys groundwater, stormwater or irrigation runoff, or any condensate to the
public wastewater collection system.
(Ord. 1326, passed 3-24-1992)
§5-1202 DEFECTIVE AND PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   To minimize groundwater infiltration and surface water inflow to the
public wastewater system that overloads pipelines and inhibits wastewater
treatment, the city hereby requires the owner of any property on which a
defective sewer line or a prohibited connection is located to repair the
service line or remove the prohibited connection at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   The city will investigate and determine if a service line is
defective. Cracked, broken, crushed or similarly damaged lines, lines with
separated joints or lines with any condition that allows infiltration of
groundwater shall be considered defective.
   (C)   The city will investigate and determine if a connection to the public
sewer is a prohibited connection. Prohibited connections may be direct to the
public sewer or indirect through the property service line. Roof drains, yard
drains, driveway and parking area drains, foundation drains, exterior stairwell
drains, uncapped cleanouts, sumps or any other system that conveys groundwater
or surface runoff to a public wastewater system may be considered a prohibited
connection, even though such connection may not have been prohibited under
existing ordinances, regulations or standards at the time of construction.
(Ord. 1326, passed 3-24-1992)
§5-1203 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   The code enforcement officer will provide written notice to the property
owner by certified mail that corrective action is required. The written notice
will specify the action that is needed such as partial repair, replacement or
disconnection. The property owner shall have 60 days from the date of the
notice to complete the work. If the property owner fails to complete the work,
the code enforcement officer will file appropriate damages in municipal court
for violation of this code. In addition to prosecution in municipal court, the
city may pursue a civil action by injunction in any court of competent
jurisdiction to temporarily or permanently enjoin the continuation of
wastewater collection service because of a public health nuisance. Further, the
city may suspend water service to property until the violations are corrected.
(Ord. 1326, passed 3-24-1992)
§5-1204 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Plumbing work shall be done in accordance with all city, state and federal
codes, regulations and standards. The city in no way whatsoever assumes any
responsibility or liability for corrective action undertaken by the property
owner or plumbing contractor. All prohibited connections shall be disconnected
immediately at the public sewer or sanitary service line and capped with a
watertight seal. Any repairs to the service tap fitting shall be made by a
licensed plumbing contractor registered with the city. Any repairs to a public
sewer shall be made by a licensed plumbing contractor registered with the city,
or by city personnel. All corrective work shall be inspected and approved by
the city prior to being covered and returned to service. Connection of
terminated service shall be at the owner’s expense. Any person damaging a
public sewer main shall be responsible for reasonable repair costs for such
damage, as determined by the city.
(Ord. 1326, passed 3-24-1992; Ord. 1351, passed 6-14-1994)
CHAPTER 13: BUILDING DEMOLITION
Section
   
5-1301   Permit required
   
5-1302   Conditions of permit
   
5-1303   Time of performance
   
5-1304   Penalty
§5-1301 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person demolishing any building or structure shall first obtain a permit
therefor as required in this chapter. Application for a demolition permit shall
be in the form prescribed by the Building Official.
(Ord. 1331, passed 12-8-1992)
§5-1302 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   In addition to compliance with city codes and ordinances, the conditions set
forth below shall apply to demolition permits.
   (A)   Asbestos survey. Application for a permit to demolish a commercial or
industrial building shall be accompanied by the results of an asbestos survey
performed by an inspector licensed to perform such work by the State Department
of Labor. Should the results of the survey indicate the presence of asbestos
subject to special handling, a licensed asbestos removal contractor shall be
employed to perform such work.
   (B)   Site clearance. It shall be a condition of the demolition permit that:
      (1)   The site be cleared of all building material, rubble and debris;
and
      (2)   Any cellars, cisterns or other open excavations be filled and that
foundations, slabs, porches or similar improvements be removed to grade and the
site graded to prevent standing water.
   (C)   Sanitary sewer connections. All connections to a public sanitary sewer
shall be exposed and sealed or closed in a manner approved by the plumbing
inspector of the city.
(Ord. 1331, passed 12-8-1992)
§5-1303 TIME OF PERFORMANCE.
   The conditions of the permit shall be met within 60 days of the date of
issuance, unless the application for permit includes an alternative schedule
for performance which is approved by the Building Official. Failure to comply
with all conditions of the permit within the specified period shall constitute
violation of the demolition permit.
(Ord. 1331, passed 12-8-1992)
§5-1304 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108. The owner or owners of any premises or part thereof where anything in
violation of this chapter shall exist, and any builder, contractor, agent,
person, firm or corporation employed in connection therewith, and who may have
participated or aided in such violation, shall be guilty of a separate offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1331, passed 12-8-1992)
CHAPTER 14: PENALTY AND JUDICIAL RELIEF
Section
   
5-1401   Penalty
   
5-1402   Relief in the courts
§5-1401 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall engage in any business, trade or vocation for which a
license, permit, certificate or registration is required by this part without
having a valid license, permit, certificate or certificate of registration as
required, or who shall fail to do anything required by this chapter or by any
code adopted by this part, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of this
chapter or of any code adopted by this part, or who shall violate any lawful
regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for in this part,
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in §
1-108.
§5-1402 RELIEF IN THE COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere with the
right of the city also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against such person.
CHAPTER 15: TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
Section
   
5-1501   Purpose
   
5-1502   Definitions
   
5-1503   Permit required
   
5-1504   Collocation requirements
   
5-1505   Telecommunications facility standards
   
5-1506   Alternative structures standards
   
5-1507   Specific standards
   
5-1508   Permit conditions
   
5-1509   Permit approval process
§5-1501 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of these regulations for telecommunications facilities are:
   (A)   To facilitate the provision of telecommunications services throughout
the city;
   (B)   To enhance the ability to provide telecommunications services to the
community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
   (C)   To encourage the location of towers in nonresidential zone districts;
   (D)   To minimize the total number of towers in the community;
   (E)   To encourage the joint use of new and existing tower locations;
   (F)   To ensure that towers are located in areas that minimize adverse
impacts;
   (G)   To ensure towers and antennas are configured in a way that minimizes
adverse visual impacts by careful design, appropriate siting and landscape
screening;
   (H)   To encourage the attachment of antennas on existing structures;
   (I)   To consider public health and safety;
   (J)   To avoid damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through
careful engineering and locating of tower structures; and
   (K)   To protect residential areas and lands by minimizing adverse impacts
of towers.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
§5-1502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   ACCESSORY SUPPORT FACILITIES. Support buildings, tower base, anchor, guywire
attachment, structures and equipment cabinets for telecommunications facilities
containing electrical and mechanical equipment and devices used for the
reception of or transmission of voice, data, image, graphic and video
programming information between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics,
laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar facilities.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Clock towers, bell steeples, building
structures or building equipment normally maintained above the roofline of a
structure, light poles, flagpoles and similar alternative design mounting
structures for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas. This term also
includes any antenna or antenna array attached to the alternative tower
structure.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior transmitting or receiving devices mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
   BOCA. Building Officials and Code Administrators.
   EIA. Electronics Industry Association.
   FAA. Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission.
   RF. Radio frequency.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. The plant, equipment and property, including,
but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas,
towers, alternative tower structures, electronics and other appurtenances used
to transmit, receive, distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing or offering for rent, sale or
lease, or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice,
data, image, graphic and video programming information between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefit or any closed transmission medium.
   TOWER. Any structure designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guyed towers or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television
transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular
telephone towers and other similar structures. This term also includes any
antenna or antenna array attached to the tower structure.
   TOWER HEIGHT. When referring to a tower or other alternative tower
structure, the distance measured from the lowest point within ten feet of the
structure to the highest point on the tower or other alternative tower
structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
§5-1503 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Telecommunications facilities shall be regulated and permitted pursuant to
this chapter and the zoning ordinances of the city.
   (A)   A telecommunications facility shall obtain a permit as a condition for
the siting, construction or operation of the telecommunications facility.
   (B)   These regulations shall apply to all towers and antennas as defined,
except:
      (1)   Any tower, or antenna, not more than 70 feet in height, owned and
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator;
      (2)   Any antenna collocated on an existing telecommunications facility,
except as expressly provided in this chapter;
      (3)   A telecommunications facility located or collocated on property
that is owned by the city and designated by the city as a site suitable for
location of a telecommunications facility;
      (4)   FCC exempted antennas;
      (5)   Antennas one meter (39.4 inches) or less in diameter; or
      (6)   Antennas on existing structures that do not extend above 20 feet in
height above the structure.
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In
addition to any other relief or penalty provided by law, the city may apply to
district court for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
§5-1504 COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The following will apply on towers built for collocation.
   (A)   All applicants for a telecommunications facility permit shall
collocate on an existing facility if it is feasible to do so. An existing
facility shall be deemed to be available to the applicant for collocation if:
the facility is within the search ring of the applicant or within a reasonable
distance so as to fit into the applicant’s design, space is available on the
facility and the facility owner will lease space to applicant at a reasonable
market rate.
      (1)   If the applicant finds collocation is not feasible, it shall submit
to the city a written statement of the reasons for the infeasibility. The city
may retain a technical expert in the field of RF engineering to determine
whether collocation at the site is feasible. The cost for such a technical
expert will be at the expense of the applicant.
      (2)   Should collocation not be feasible, applicant must consider city
owned property for construction of any new tower. If the applicant determines
that city owned property is not feasible, it shall submit to the city a written
statement of the reasons for the infeasibility. The city may retain a technical
expert in the field of RF engineering to determine whether the site is
feasible. The cost for such a technical expert will be at the expense of the
applicant.
      (3)   The city may deny the permit unless the applicant demonstrates to
the city by substantial evidence that existing telecommunications facilities or
city owned property cannot accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna.
   (B)   A telecommunications tower shall not be permitted unless the owner of
the proposed tower certifies to the city that the tower is available for use by
other telecommunications service providers on a reasonable and
nondiscriminatory basis. Towers and accessory support facilities shall be
designed and built to accommodate a minimum of three telecommunications
services.
   (C)   To facilitate collocation and coordination of telecommunications
sites, all telecommunications service providers shall, within 90 days of the
passage of this chapter, provide the city with their respective master plans.
Said plans shall include detailed maps, showing the locations of all
telecommunications towers serving any portion of the city and indicating their
coverage areas.
   (D)   Telecommunications service providers shall also provide the city with
any updates to the above documents within 90 days of their creation.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
§5-1505 TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The exterior of equipment buildings and/or equipment cabinets visible
from residential areas or public rights-of-way must have a neutral aggregate
finish or be painted to reflect the color and character of adjoining structures
or blend with adjacent landscaping and other surroundings.
   (B)   At the telecommunications facility, the design of the buildings and
related structures used in conjunction with telecommunications facilities
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend the telecommunications facilities to the natural
setting and the built environment.
   (C)   (1)   All telecommunications facilities must have a buffer of
landscaping outside the perimeter of the accessory support facility.
      (2)   The base of the tower and any accessory support facilities such as
anchored locations of guywires shall be screened from view with a sightproof
fence, which shall be a minimum of six feet in height.
   (D)   Guywires must be anchored no closer than ten feet from any property
line. Guywires shall not cross or encroach any overhead telephone or electric
power lines.
   (E)   The height of a single user tower shall not exceed 150 feet. The
height of a tower with two or more users shall not exceed 195 feet.
   (F)   Applicants are responsible for complying with all FCC rules and
regulations, including all regulators providing protection from radio frequency
interference.
   (G)   Illumination of a tower is prohibited except as required by the FAA.
Strobes shall not be used for nighttime lighting. Any required lighting shall
be directed upward and away from adjoining properties. The ground level
security lighting shall not be more than 20 feet in height and directed
downward, not upward or outward.
   (H)   The applicant will be required to provide ingress/egress only from
approved access points and a minimum of one off-street parking space per
provider.
   (I)   (1)   If the tower is more than 75 feet high and adjacent to or
separated by a public right-of-way from property zoned residential, the setback
shall be one foot for every foot in height, or the setback of the zoning
district, whichever is greater. If it is separated from nonresidential
property, the setback must be at least 50 feet and an additional one foot for
every foot of tower height over 150 feet. The setback may not be less than 50
feet.
      (2)   Towers in excess of 200 feet in any zoning district shall be
considered as a use permitted upon review.
      (3)   Towers in excess of 400 feet in height shall be set back a minimum
of 260 feet from the right-of-way of all controlled access federal and state
roadways.
   (J)   Any signage on telecommunications towers shall only display the name,
registration and emergency contact number of the tower owner with the exception
of signs required by FCC regulations or signs containing warning or safety
instructions. Signs are limited to four square feet in size, and advertising is
expressly prohibited.
   (K)   No new tower shall be closer than 500 feet from another tower, and
telecommunications towers in excess of 180 feet in height must be located a
minimum of one and one-half miles from any existing tower in excess of 180 feet
in height. Technical exceptions may be allowed as a use permitted upon review
for FCC required directional antenna configurations.
   (L)   Accessory support facilities can be no more than 350 square feet of
gross floor area or more than 12 feet in height. Minimum setback requirements
of the zoning district apply to accessory support facilities.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
§5-1506 ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURES STANDARDS.
   Telecommunications facilities may be permitted on an alternative tower
structure at least 30 feet in height under the following conditions, which
shall be in addition to the requirements of §§
5-1505 and
5-1507.
   (A)   The facility and its accessory support facilities shall comply with
all zoning requirements applicable to the alternate structure and the
provisions of §
5-1505.
   (B)   If the facility or an accessory support facility is located upon the
roof of a structure, each such facility shall be set back a distance at least
equal to the height of the telecommunications facility unless the facilities
are screened or camouflaged in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding
property. The top of the antenna or other facility shall not be more than 30%
of the height of the alternate structure, or 75 feet, whichever is less.
   (C)   The alternative structure must be similar in color, scale and
character to adjoining buildings or structures or blend with the landscaping
and other surroundings immediately adjacent to them so as to generally avoid
the creation of unique visual objects that stand out in the environment.
   (D)   An alternative tower structure must be compatible with the natural
setting and surrounding structures and must camouflage or conceal the presence
of antennas and/or towers. Proposed changes to structures must not add
attractive nuisances and must be constructed so as to minimize health and
safety hazards.
   (E)   Prior to the installation of any building- or roof-mounted
telecommunications facility, the applicant shall furnish to the city an
engineer’s certification that the structure will support and not be adversely
affected by the proposed antenna and accessory support facility or equipment.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
§5-1507 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   All telecommunications facilities shall be erected and operated in
compliance with current FCC and FAA rules and regulations and other applicable
federal, state and local standards.
   (B)   The city may require the tower owner to provide documentation that the
power density levels do not exceed federally approved levels or ANSI standards,
whichever provides the stricter requirements. An applicant must provide a copy
of its FCC license or, if the applicant is not an FCC license holder,
documentation of applicant’s exemption from an FCC license requirement.
   (C)   Telecommunications facilities shall not be permitted in any wetland,
floodplain or wilderness or wildlife area and disturbance to wetland buffer
areas shall be minimized. A telecommunications facility shall not be permitted
in any area where it would threaten endangered species or critical habitats.
Telecommunications facilities shall not be permitted where they would
significantly change surface area, contribute significantly to deforestation or
create significant water diversions.
   (D)   Ground-mounted equipment for personal wireless service facilities
shall not generate noise in excess of 55 dBA at the property line. Roof-mounted
or side-mounted equipment for personal wireless service facilities shall not
generate noise in excess of 55 dBA at ground level at the base of the building
closest to the antenna.
   (E)   Telecommunications tower structures must conform to the most current
revision of EIA 222 standards and shall be designed and located such that, if
the structure should fall, it will avoid structures authorized for assembly
occupancy and public ways. The applicant must supply an engineer’s
certification of the structural integrity of the tower and associated
equipment. If more than one user is involved, the applicant shall supply
certification that the tower has sufficient integrity to accommodate more than
one user.
   (F)   Telecommunications facilities shall be designed and engineered to
withstand wind loading and other design standards as defined by IBC and ANSI
for the county.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
§5-1508 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Defective or unsafe antennas, telecommunications towers or
telecommunications facilities are to be repaired or removed within six months
at the owner’s or operator’s expense. If the facilities are not operated for a
continuous period of 24 months, they shall be considered abandoned and must be
removed within 90 days. If not removed, the city may remove at the expense of
the owner or operator.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of property within the city shall not permit,
leave or cause to be left on said property any telecommunications facility
which has been abandoned. The provider shall remove its facility within 90 days
of the date that the facility has been deemed abandoned. If the facility is not
removed within the required time, the facility shall be deemed to be abandoned
and the city shall have authority to enter the premises and remove the
abandoned facilities. All costs of removal shall be collected from the property
owner or occupant in the manner provided for summary abatement of nuisances.
This requirement shall apply to collocated facilities unless the collocation
agreement provides for the removal of abandoned facilities by the tower
operator.
   (C)   Existing towers that do not comply with the new regulations may
continue. Tower expansions or replacements must comply with this chapter. If
they are damaged or destroyed, they may be repaired or restored to their former
use, location and physical dimensions without complying with the new
regulations. The existing tower may be replaced, repaired, rebuilt and/or
expanded to accommodate collocated antennas or facilities, or to upgrade the
facilities to current engineering, technological or communications standards by
obtaining zoning approval under the city zoning code.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
§5-1509 PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Except for a proposed telecommunications facility which will collocate
on an existing tower, the applicant for a telecommunications facility permit
shall notify all property owners within 300 feet of the outer boundary of the
property proposed for location of the facility. Such notice shall describe the
boundaries of the property included in the application, explain the character
and dimensions of the proposed telecommunications facility and give an address
for the property owners to submit written comments to the applicant. The notice
shall include a drawing or other representation of the visual aspect of the
proposed facility. The notice shall also contain the date, which shall be not
less than 15 days after the mailing date, set for consideration of the
application by the city.
   (B)   The Director of the Community Development Department will administer
the permit process.
   (C)   Applicant should pay a fee as approved by City Council action to cover
the cost of this permit process; the permit fee is nonrefundable.
   (D)   The applicant must submit to the office of the Director of the
Community Development Department, along with his or her application, an
inventory and contour map of existing facilities that are within the location,
height, coverage, capacity and design of each telecommunications facility,
telecommunications tower and antenna.
   (E)   The City Engineer must review and approve the application for
conformance to engineering standards and city ordinances that are within the
jurisdiction of the City Engineering Department.
   (F)   The Director of the Community Development Department will develop,
update and maintain an inventory of towers and antennas.
(Ord. 1514, passed 10-24-2000)
CHAPTER 16: RESERVED
 
CHAPTER 17: BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE
Section
   
5-1701   General provisions
   
5-1702   Definitions
   
5-1703   Method of registration
   
5-1704   Registration fee; annual renewal fee
   
5-1705   Registration certificate insurance requirements
   
5-1706   Violation and penalties
   
5-1707   Administrative authority
   
5-1708   Revocation of building contractor registration certificate
§5-1701 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health and safety
by assuring that persons responsible for the construction and remodel of
buildings possess appropriate insurance provisions so as to protect consumers
from losses due to their activities.
   (B)   Before issuance of a building permit to a contractor to erect,
construct, structurally alter, repair or add to a residential or commercial
building structure upon any lot or parcel of land within the city, the city
shall first obtain a certificate of insurance from the appropriate insurer that
the contractor has general liability insurance in the required amount and that
the contractor has workers’ compensation insurance or a workers’ compensation
exemption verification document.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to a person or persons performing the
construction or remodeling to his, her or their own existing single-family,
duplex or multi-family structure on their own property, other than performing
work covered by the city’s Electrical, Plumbing or Mechanical Codes, unless the
modifications are being performed by and the permit acquired by a general
contractor, in which case the general contractor shall meet the requirements
set forth in this chapter. All adopted codes and ordinances shall apply.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-22-2018)
§5-1702 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT. Any permit for commercial (as defined in the IBC
documents prepared by the International Code Council) structure and shall
include construction of a new structure, remodel of an existing structure and
the addition to an existing structure.
   CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   Any person who undertakes with or for another person within the
city to erect, construct, structurally alter, repair or add to a residential or
commercial structure upon any lot or parcel of land within the city.
      (2)   The following are not CONTRACTORS within the meaning of this
definition:
         (a)   Persons who have a valid certificate or license for other
specialized trades required by this code and provided the work performed falls
under the requirements of that certification; and/or
         (b)   Residential owners of property are not required to obtain a
building contractor’s registration certificate when performing work on their
own property provided all work is performed by the owner, except for required
specialized trade contractors who hold a valid certificate or license from the
city. This exemption does not relieve the owner from obtaining a building
permit as required by this code.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMIT. Any permit for a single-family, duplex or
multiple-family structure and shall include construction of a new structure,
remodel of an existing structure and the addition to an existing structure.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-22-2018)
§5-1703 METHOD OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person who is required by this chapter to possess a building
contractor’s registration certificate shall make an application to the city on
application forms provided for that purpose by the city.
   (B)   When the applicant has had a building contractor’s registration
certificate revoked in the past or has shown a history of incompetency in
matters pertaining to such registration, or a lack of knowledge in matters to
such registration, or failed to perform normal business obligations, the
application shall be denied and a hearing scheduled with the Appeals Board.
   (C)   The lending of any certificate or the obtaining of permits thereunder
for any other person shall be deemed cause for revocation. A building
contractor’s registration certificate issued by the city is not transferable,
and violation of this provision is a cause for revocation in addition to other
penalties in this code.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-22-2018)
§5-1704 REGISTRATION FEE; ANNUAL RENEWAL FEE.
   (A)   The registration certificate and renewal fees shall be provided in the
fee schedule. Applicants for registration shall pay to the city the required
registration certificate fee prior to its issuance. The fee shall be paid after
all requirements are met.
   (B)   The registration certificate shall expire annually on July 31.
   (C)   Annual renewal of registration certificate shall be accomplished by
payment of renewal fees as provided herein and documentation of meeting
requirements provided herein.
   (D)   The renewal application, appropriate documentation and fees must be
received by the city on or before June 30 of each year hereafter, otherwise the
applicant must proceed in the manner required for a new or initial applicant.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-22-2018)
§5-1705 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every applicant for residential contractor’s certificate shall submit
proof of current workers’ compensation insurance. Further, the applicant shall
submit proof of liability insurance, which shall remain in effect during the
period of the registration certificate in the amount of $500,000 per
occurrence, $1,000,000 aggregate. Certificates of insurance shall be submitted
to the Code Enforcement Department. Fulfillment of the insurance requirements
herein described may be made by submitting proof of such insurance carried by
the applicant’s employer.
   (B)   Every applicant for commercial contractor’s certificate shall submit
proof of current workers’ compensation insurance. Further, the applicant shall
submit proof of liability insurance, which shall remain in effect during the
period of the registration certificate in the amount of $500,000 per
occurrence, $1,000,000 aggregate. Certificates of insurance shall be submitted
to the Code Enforcement Department. Fulfillment of the insurance requirements
herein described may be made by submitting proof of such insurance carried by
the applicant’s employer.
   (C)   Certificate of insurance for workers’ compensation with the city named
as a certificate holder from an insurance company duly licensed to do business
in the state or proof of exemption or own risk status shall be submitted with
the application for registration to the city. Persons who are self-employed and
do not fall under the jurisdiction of the Workers’ Compensation Act, being 85A
O.S. Chapters 1 through 4, are not required to submit a certificate of
insurance. However, in lieu of the certificate of insurance requirement, the
applicant must execute an affidavit certifying he or she is wholly self-
employed and does not fall under the jurisdiction of the Workers’ Compensation
Act with proof of exemption. The City Attorney will establish acceptable
criteria for proof of exemption.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-22-2018)
§5-1706 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be punishable as provided in §
1-108. Each separate day or any portion thereof during which any violation of
this chapter occurs or continues shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-22-2018)
§5-1707 ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The Code Enforcement Official shall administer this chapter and continue
through the chain of authority that is in effect with applying or enforcing
this chapter.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-22-2018)
§5-1708 REVOCATION OF BUILDING CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Official or the Appeals Board may revoke any city
issued building contractor’s registration certificate if the holder of such
registration certificate shows incompetency or lack of knowledge in matters
relevant to such certificate, fails to perform normal business obligations or
if such certificate was obtained by fraud. The filing of an appeal to such
revocation by the Code Enforcement Official shall act as a stop to all actions
regarding such revocation until such time as the appeal action is completed.
   (B)   Certificates revoked by the Code Enforcement Official that are
appealed to the Appeals Board shall be handled by the Board as if the initial
action was taken by the Board, that being a review held, and action for
reinstatement of certificate or revocation of certificate.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-22-2018)
CHAPTER 18: WATER WELL DRILLING REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-1801   Definitions
   
5-1802   Licensing requirements
   
5-1803   Permits and inspection
   
5-1804   Minimum standards for construction of wells
   
5-1805   Location
   
5-1806   Applicability of state regulations
   
5-1807   Domestic use
   
5-1808   Irrigation use
   
5-1809   Sewer charges
   
5-1810   Cross-connections
   
5-1811   Debris on public rights-of-way
§5-1801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The city’s complex of facilities,
installations, methods and procedures designed to receive, store, maintain,
distribute and control the flow of potable water between the point of receipt
into the city’s system and the point of issue to end users.
   APPROVED WATER SUPPLY SOURCE. The city’s potable water system.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply other than the approved water
supply source, including water from another public water supply or from a
natural source, including, but not limited to, wells, cisterns, springs,
rivers, streams, used waters or industrial fluids.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. Person or designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the approved water
distribution system or a private auxiliary water supply by the introduction or
admission of any foreign substance that degrades the quality and which creates
an actual or potential hazard to the public health through poisoning or through
the spread of disease by sewage, industrial fluids or waste.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A point in the plumbing system where the approved water
distribution system is connected directly, or has the potential of being
connected, to an outside source or substance that is not part of the approved
water distribution system. This connection may be temporary or permanent,
potential or actual, indirect or direct.
   DOMESTIC USE. The use of water by a natural individual or by a family or
household for non-potable household purposes and for the irrigation of land.
   CITY. Duncan, Oklahoma and its duly authorized representatives.
   EXISTING WORK. A well or water system which had been installed prior to the
effective date hereof.
   HEALTH HAZARD. A cross-connection, potential contamination hazard or other
situation involving any substance that can cause death, illness and spread of
disease or has a probability of causing such effects if introduced into the
approved water distribution system.
   NONPOTABLE WATER. A water supply which has not been approved for human
consumption by a regulating agency.
   OVERHAUL. Work performed on a well that is not considered routine
maintenance.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, company or
organization of any kind.
   PHYSICAL SEPARATION. A physical break or means of division between an
approved water distribution system and a private distribution system, with the
minimum distance between systems being 12 inches. This pertains to any liquid
well and distribution system.
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR. Any person hired by the city for the purpose of
inspecting work and installation in connection with health and safety laws as
provided in, or referred to in, this chapter. Such person shall have a valid
license by the State Construction Industries Board (OCIB) in accordance with
the State Plumbing License Law, being 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq. (refer to
statute, as it exists or may be amended).
   POTABLE WATER. A water supply which has been approved for human consumption
by a regulating agency.
   PREMISES OR PROPERTY. Any property real, improved or personal that is
connected to the approved water distribution system.
   WATER MAIN. A water distribution pipe for public or community use under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   WELLS. Bored wells, dug wells and drilled wells developed into the
underground soils, which are used to extract water from the underground soils.
WELLS are prohibited unless otherwise approved under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1802 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   Construction of wells shall be performed only by an insured and bonded
company holding a valid well driller’s license issued by the state. The license
number shall be displayed during construction at the site of the work. The
number shall be clearly readable from the nearest traveled public roadway. Well
drillers must hold a current contractor registration with the city and be in
good standing. In addition, the approved permit issued by the city shall be
displayed during construction at the site of the work and remain on site until
a final inspection is obtained.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1803 PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   When permit required. It shall be unlawful to construct a well or to
overhaul a well without first securing a water well permit.
   (B)   When permit not required. Permits are not required for routine
maintenance of preexisting wells, as determined by the plumbing inspector or
his or her designee. It is the well driller’s responsibility to notify the
plumbing inspector or his or her designee of routine maintenance so a
determination may be made on whether or not a permit is required.
   (C)   Permits not transferable. Each permit issued under this chapter shall
be personal to the permittee. No such permit shall be assigned or transferred
to another person, and no person shall permit another person to obtain a permit
in his or her name or permit any new well construction or overhaul work to be
performed under his or her name other than a person authorized to do the same.
   (D)   False statement or bad faith. Any person who shall willfully make any
false statement in order to obtain a permit shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and be subject to the penalty provided herein. Bad faith or unreasonable delay
in the performance of work under this chapter shall be deemed a sufficient
reason for suspension of the permit of the well driller so offending, and no
further permit shall be issued until such act of bad faith or unreasonable
delay has been corrected. Well drillers in violation of any ordinance governing
contractor registration requirements may be suspended or have their
registration revoked.
   (E)   Issuance of permit. The Building Official or his or her designated
representative shall issue all permits in accordance with the provisions and
requirements of this chapter. Incomplete applications shall be rejected or
denied. All applications for permits shall be on the approved application form
and provide the following information:
      (1)   Company name, address and telephone number of the well driller;
      (2)   Well driller’s license number and city assigned contractor
registration number;
      (3)   Name, address, legal description and telephone number of property
owner;
      (4)   Company name and city assigned contractor registration number of
electrical contractor;
      (5)   Company name and city assigned contractor registration number of
plumbing contractor;
      (6)   Plan, specifications and diagrams in detail to determine whether a
proposed well meets the minimum standards as determined by this chapter;
      (7)   A plan of the property that shows the location of the proposed
well, all buildings, septic tanks, drainfields and other significant
structures;
      (8)   Description of what the well will be used for; and
      (9)   Any other information deemed necessary by the city.
   (F)   Duration of permits. Every permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire 90 days after the date issued. In every case where a
permit is expired, a new permit shall be obtained before any work is resumed.
   (G)   Inspections and test.
      (1)   All authority personnel, agents or contractors shall have the
right, at any time, to enter the property, as provided for by §
17-105, for the purpose to inspect a well and ensure compliance with this
chapter. In addition, all authority personnel, agents or contractors or their
designees shall have the right to enter the property at any time in the future,
as provided for by §
17-105, for the purpose of inspection to ensure that there are no cross-
connections. Reasonable notice will be given to the property owner prior to
entrance of the property.
      (2)   A 120-volt ground fault circuit interrupting (“GFCI”) receptacle
shall be installed immediately adjacent to the well equipment to allow for
maintenance work on the equipment or the use of a freeze protection device.
      (3)   When applicable, the following inspections shall be required on all
wells drilled within the corporate limits of the city:
         (a)   Plumbing final to verify the required physical separation of the
private system from the approved water distribution system, as well as the
completed connections to the well and private distribution system(s);
         (b)   Electrical underground (EUG) to verify trench depth and proper
wire is used (size and type); and
         (c)   Electrical final to verify disconnects are installed and
appropriate panel box in place (weathertight).
      (4)   Upon completion of the well, the well driller shall furnish the
Building Official or his or her designee with a copy of the driller’s report
and a copy of the water analysis. Any well that is not completed shall be
sealed and considered a plugged or an abandoned well in accordance with rules,
regulations and status of the state.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1804 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF WELLS.
   (A)   Minimum construction standards. Minimum standards for construction of
water wells are contained in OWRB regulations Chapter 35, subchapter 7 of the
Well Driller and Pump Installer Licensing Act, being O.A.C. § 785:35, as
authorized by 82 O.S. Chapter 11.
   (B)   Abandonment of wells. Permanently abandoned wells shall be filled with
cement grout or concrete. Abandoned wells shall not be used for the disposal of
wastewater, septic tank effluent or other wastes.
   (C)   Screening. Water wells shall provide filtration to minimize the
distribution of undesirable materials through the system.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1805 LOCATION.
   In addition to water well drilling setback regulations as established by the
OWRB as promulgated in Chapter 35, subchapter 7 of the Well Driller and Pump
Installer Licensing Act, being O.A.C. § 785:35, the following local setbacks
and placement will apply to nonpotable water well uses:
   (A)   Right-of-way and/or public easement: ten feet;
   (B)   Primary buildings: ten feet; and
   (C)   Elevation certificate required when well is proposed to be located in
the floodplain.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1806 APPLICABILITY OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of the State Water Resources Board (OWRB) and the State Well
Driller and Pump Installer Licensing Act, being O.A.C. § 785:35, as existing or
may be amended and as they may pertain to the construction of wells, shall be
and are hereby incorporated into this chapter and must be strictly complied
with.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1807 DOMESTIC USE.
   No well shall be used to supply water to a premises for domestic use, as
defined herein, when that premises has direct connection to the city’s approved
water distribution system, except for city owned and maintained water
recreation facilities.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1808 IRRIGATION USE.
   Any irrigation water well must be constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. No irrigation water well shall be used for domestic
potable water use.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1809 SEWER CHARGES.
   The city is required to charge for water discharges into the public sewer
system on the basis of water meter readings; therefore, the following shall
apply.
   (A)   Wells used only for yard or irrigation watering and other uses not
connected with the sanitary sewer: No sewer charges will be accessed.
   (B)   Wells used in such a manner that all or a portion of the well water
enters the public sewer: A city approved water meter must be installed and
accessible to meter readers. Sewer charge shall be based on the current
approved rate structure.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1810 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   There shall also be a complete physical separation of at least 12 inches
between the approved water distribution system and any private system.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
§5-1811 DEBRIS ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   There shall be no debris, dirty water, mud or any other refuse dumped and/or
discharged onto public rights-of-way. The drilling operation of any well shall
control and dispose of, among other things, all drilling, cutting, mud and
water so as not to create a mud pit or disposal operation at the well site.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-28-2015)
PART 6: COURT
Chapter
   
1.    MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 1: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
6-101   Organization of municipal court
   
6-102   Definitions
   
6-103   Jurisdiction of court
   
6-104   Judge; qualifications
   
6-105   Term of judge
   
6-106   Alternate judge
   
6-107   Acting judge
   
6-108   Appointment of judge and alternate judge
   
6-109   Salary and payments to judges
   
6-110   Removal of judge
   
6-111   Vacancy in office of judge
   
6-112   Disqualification of judge
   
6-113   Chief of Police
   
6-114   Clerk of the court; duties
   
6-115   Prosecuting attorney; duties; conflict of interest
   
6-116   Bond of judge and court clerk
   
6-117   Rules of court
   
6-118   Enforcement of rules
   
6-119   Written complaints to prosecute ordinance violations
   
6-120   Traffic ordinance violations; procedures for issuing citation; custody,
arrest
   
6-121   Creation of Traffic Violations Bureau
   
6-122   Summons for arrest
   
6-123   Form of arrest warrant
   
6-124   Procedures for bail or bond
   
6-125   Bond forfeiture; district court
   
6-126   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
6-127   Trials and judgments
   
6-128   Probation; alternative procedures prior to judgment of guilt
   
6-129   Trial by jury and waiver
   
6-130   Jurors and jury trial procedures
   
6-131   Witness fees
   
6-132   Compensation of jurors
   
6-133   Suspension of sentence, proceedings
   
6-134   Complaint; failure to appear; court costs
   
6-135   Imprisonment, work by prisoners
   
6-136   Fines and costs
§6-101 ORGANIZATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the
municipal court of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on
January 28, 1969, and filed in accordance with law as authorized by 11 O.S. §§
27-101 and 27-102.
   (B)   To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any ordinance of this city, the provisions of this chapter
shall control. The court shall be operative on and after February 12, 1969.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 through 27-131
§6-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
city.
   CLERK. The Clerk of this city, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s office.
   COURT. The municipal court of the City of Duncan.
   JUDGE. The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The district court judicial district of the state
wherein the government of this city is situated.
§6-103 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this city is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law.
§6-104 JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   There shall be one judge of the court. A judge shall be duly licensed to
practice law in this state. He or she may engage in the practice of law in
other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his
or her duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are
connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or
which might become the subject of proceedings therein. He or she must be a
resident of this city.
§6-105 TERM OF JUDGE.
   The official term of the judge shall be two years expiring on the first
Monday of May, in each odd-numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner removed for
proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified
under the terms of this chapter.
§6-106 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   There shall be appointed for each judge of the court an alternate judge
possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His or her appointment shall
be for the same term and made in the same manner as the judge. He or she shall
sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the judge is:
   (A)   Absent from the court;
   (B)   Unable to act as judge; or
   (C)   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
§6-107 ACTING JUDGE.
   If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as judge, the City Manager shall appoint some
person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the judge,
who shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of pending
matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available.
§6-108 APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the City Manager.
§6-109 SALARY AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGES.
   (A)   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the City Council by motion or resolution.
   (B)   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as set
by the City Council for each day devoted to the performance of his or her
duties, except that the total payments so calculated during any month shall not
exceed the salary of the judge in whose stead he or she sits. An alternate or
acting judge who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in
this chapter as the salary of the judge in whose stead he or she sits.
§6-110 REMOVAL OF JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the City Council in
accordance with the Charter, or the City Manager in accordance with applicable
personnel procedures, or a judge may be removed for the causes prescribed by
the constitution and laws of this state for the removal of public officers.
   (B)   (1)   Proceedings for removal pursuant to causes prescribed by the
constitution and laws of the state for removal of public officers shall be
instituted by the filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts
sufficient to constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may
be signed and filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor; or
         (b)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of this city.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
      (2)   The City Council shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten days before the hearing. At the hearing,
the judge shall be entitled to:
         (a)   Representation by counsel;
         (b)   Present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against him
or her; and
         (c)   Have all evidence against him or her presented in open hearing.
      (3)   (a)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the State
Administrative Procedures Act (75 O.S. §§ 309 through 317, as amended)
governing individual proceedings shall govern removal proceedings hereunder.
         (b)   Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes,
by a majority of all members of the City Council, in favor of such removal.
§6-111 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the City
Manager shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same
manner as an original appointment is made.
§6-112 DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   (A)   In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed;
but the judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her
disqualification, or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the
terms, conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record.
   (B)   If a judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate
or acting judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
§6-113 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his or her official
title, to the Chief of Police of this city, who shall be the principal officer
of the court.
§6-114 CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the
clerk of the court. He or she shall assist the judge in recording the
proceedings of the court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He
or she shall administer oaths required in proceedings before the court. He or
she shall enter all pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the dockets of the
court. He or she shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the
proceedings of the court as the judge shall direct. He or she shall receive and
receipt for forfeitures, fines, deposits and sums of money payable to the
court. He or she shall pay to the Treasurer of this city all money so received
by him or her, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed by him or her for special purposes.
   (B)   All money paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the General Fund of
the city, or in such other funds as the City Council may direct, and it shall
be used in the operation of the municipal government in accordance with
budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
§6-115 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The attorney for this city, or his or her duly designated assistant, shall
be the prosecuting officer of the court. He or she shall also prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the city. He or she shall be
authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal,
proceedings in error and review from this court to any other court of the
state, and to represent this city in all proceedings arising out of matters in
this court.
§6-116 BOND OF JUDGE AND COURT CLERK.
   The clerk of the court shall give bond in the form provided by 11 O.S. § 27-
111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the City Council for
approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk of this city and
retained in the municipal archives.
§6-117 RULES OF COURT.
   The judge may prescribe rules consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of this city for the proper conduct of the business of the
court.
§6-118 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the judge or by the
court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him or her while holding court, or committed against process
issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent as the district
courts of this state.
§6-119 WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of this city shall be
styled “The City of Duncan vs. (naming defendant or defendants).” Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged.
   (B)   A complaint may be amended in matter of substance or form at any time
before the defendant pleads, without leave, and may be amended after plea on
order of the court where the same can be done without material prejudice to the
right of the defendant; no amendment shall cause any delay of the trial, unless
for good cause shown by affidavit.
§6-120 TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION; CUSTODY,
ARREST.
   (A)   If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes constitute
a violation of the traffic ordinances of this city, committed by a resident or
nonresident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he or she may take his
or her name, address, operator’s license number and registered license number
of the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent and necessary information
and may issue him or her in writing in form prescribed by the Mayor or his or
her duly designated delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above
information, and also stating the traffic violation alleged to have occurred,
and notifying him or her to answer to the charge against him or her at a time,
not sooner than five days thereafter, specified in the citation. The officer,
upon receiving the written promise of the alleged violator, endorsed on the
citation to answer as specified, may then release the person from custody. If
the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as prescribed in the
citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be prosecuted as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of this city, the police officer may:
      (1)   (a)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as
set out in division (A) above pending his or her appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation after the person:
            1.   Posts cash bail; or
            2.   Deposits with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate.
         (b)   This division (B)(1) is not applicable in the case of any person
arrested for driving under the influence of liquor or drugs, being in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of liquor or
drugs, leaving the scene of an accident or driving under suspension or during
revocation;
      (2)   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon
giving his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in
division (A) above, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in divisions
(A) or (B) above, with such variation as the circumstances require; the
operator of this vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under divisions (A)
or (B) above.
§6-121 CREATION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   A Traffic Violations Bureau hereby is established as a division of the
office of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the Clerk, or by
subordinates designated by him or her for that purpose. Persons who are cited
for violation of one of the traffic regulatory ordinances of this city, other
than:
      (1)   A second traffic offense within a 12-month period;
      (2)   A driver’s license offense; or
      (3)   An offense punishable by a fine of more than $100 or by
imprisonment may elect to pay a fine in the Traffic Violations Bureau according
to the schedule of fines to be determined by the court.
   (B)   The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this section. Payment
of a fine under this section shall constitute a final determination of cause
against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this
section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of this
chapter and the ordinance violated by the defendant.
(Ord. 1180, passed 9-28-1982)
§6-122 SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance,
the judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known, stating
the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her notice to
answer the charge in the court on a certain day, five days (Sundays and
holidays excepted) after the summons is served upon him or her, and including
such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this chapter.
§6-123 FORM OF ARREST WARRANT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this city, upon the
filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Attorney of this city
or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest as follows.
 
      The City of Duncan to the Chief of Police of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma.
 
      Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the offense of (naming the
offense in particular but general terms) has been committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you
are commanded therefor forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring                      before
me, at Duncan, Oklahoma.
 
      Witness my hand this            day of                  , 20     .
 
            
         Judge of the Municipal Court
         Duncan, Oklahoma
 
   (B)   It is the duty of the Chief of Police, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of this city, or through any other
person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible.
(Ord. 1180, passed 9-28-1982)
§6-124 PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND.
   Any person arrested, or appearing without arrest in response to citation or
summons for violation of a nontraffic ordinance, at any time before trial,
before or after arraignment, shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail
for their appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by the judge, who
shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency, or when the judge
is not available, the rule shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his or her
designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond, not less than $10
nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for such
offense.
§6-125 BOND FORFEITURE; DISTRICT COURT.
   (A)   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according
to the terms or conditions of his or her bond, either for hearing, arraignment,
trial or judgment, or upon any other occasion when his or her presence in court
or before the magistrate may be lawfully required, the judge may direct that
fact to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be
forfeited. Without advancing court costs, the judge shall then cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the district court of the county where situs of
the municipal government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the
judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a district court
judgment. At such time as the forfeiture is entered upon the district court
judgment docket, the district court clerk shall proceed in accordance with the
provisions of 59 O.S. §§ 1332, 1333 and 1335, and a surety shall have all
remedies available under the provisions of 22 O.S. § 1108 and 59 O.S. §§ 1301
through 1340. Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of the bond.
   (B)   A prosecution in a court provided for herein shall be a bar to
prosecution in another court for the same or a lesser included offense.
§6-126 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   (A)   Upon making his or her appearance before the court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The judge, or the City Attorney, shall read the complaint
to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights, including the
right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction,
and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty.
   (B)   If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to judgment and
sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition and shall fix
the penalty plus court costs. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not
for jury trial, the court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for
hearing at a later date.
(Ord. 1180, passed 9-28-1982)
§6-127 TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may
obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   (C)   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by the
statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by the
supreme court of the state, the procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors
in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be made
effective.
   (D)   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
judge who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
   (E)   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
   (F)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he or
she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day
imprisonment for each $25 of fine. If the defendant is without means to pay the
fine or costs, the municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be
entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the district court of the
county wherein the situs of government is situated where it shall be entered
upon the district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and
effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be
available for the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other
judgment creditor.
(Ord. 1180, passed 9-28-1982)
§6-128 PROBATION; ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES PRIOR TO JUDGMENT OF GUILT.
   (A)   Upon a verdict or plea of guilty, but before a judgment of guilt, the
court may, without entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of the
defendant, defer further proceedings and place the defendant on probation under
the supervision of the court upon conditions of probation prescribed by the
court. Such conditions may include restitution when applicable.
   (B)   Upon completion of the probation term, which shall not exceed six
months, the defendant shall be discharged without a court judgment of guilt,
and the verdict or plea of guilt shall be expunged from the record, and the
charge shall be dismissed with prejudice to any further action.
   (C)   Upon violation of any of the conditions of probation, the court may
enter a judgment of guilt.
§6-129 TRIAL BY JURY AND WAIVER.
   (A)   In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine of
more than $500, excluding court costs, or by imprisonment, or by both fine and
imprisonment, trial shall be by jury, unless waived by the defendant and the
city. If trial by jury is waived, trial shall be to the court.
   (B)   At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he or she demands
or waives trial by jury. His or her election shall be recorded in the minutes
of the arraignment and entered on the docket of the court respecting
proceedings in the case.
   (C)   An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed by
the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the court is set;
an election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial, but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be re-changed so as again to demand trial by jury.
(Ord. 1382, passed 10-24-1995)
§6-130 JURORS AND JURY TRIAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Whenever a calendar has been made up for the trial of cases by jury,
the judge shall request, in writing, the presiding judge of the district court
for this judicial district to cause the names of a stated number of jurors,
deemed sufficient to dispose of the cases on the calendar, to be drawn from the
jury wheel in accordance with the governing statutes of the state and to be
certified by the clerk of the district court to the judge of the municipal
court. The request shall be made in time for the list to be certified and the
jurors to be summoned legally before the trial of the calendar begins. If it is
anticipated that the completion of the calendar will require more than two
weeks, the request for jurors shall specify the number required for each two-
week period, as provided by law for the drawing of jurors for the district
court. Additional drawing of other names also may be requested by the judge,
when necessary, in accordance with the law for such additional drawings in the
district court. If, in the future, provisions of the law respecting the drawing
of jury lists for the district court are changed, the judge shall take such
steps, in requesting jury lists for the court, as are necessary to comply with
the state law.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of the court shall cause a
summons substantially in the following form to be issued and served upon each
person on the list.
 
      STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
      ) SS:
      COUNTY OF STEPHENS   )
 
      TO                          , GREETING: you hereby are summoned to appear in the Municipal Court for the City of Duncan,
Oklahoma, to be held at                               on the        day of              20     , at the hour of          o’clock
   .m., to serve as a juror in said court, and to continue in such service until discharged by the court.
 
      Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
 
      Issued under the authority of said court, this            day of                , 20     .
         Clerk of the Municipal Court
         of the City of Duncan, Oklahoma
 
      (Seal)
 
   (C)   Service shall be made, as the judge may prescribe by rule or direct by
order, either in person upon the juror by the Chief of Police or by any member
of the police force of this city, or by the clerk of the court, through
certified mail, directed to the juror at his or her address as given in the
jury list with request for a personally signed return receipt. In any
proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of the due
mailing of the summons by the clerk or a member of his or her staff and the
presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the
addressee shall be prima facie evidence that the summons was duly received by
the addressee and therefore, that he or she was properly served therewith.
   (D)   A jury in the court shall consist of six jurors, good and lawful men
or women, citizens of the county, possessing the qualifications of jurors in
district court.
   (E)   After the jurors are sworn, they must sit together and hear the proofs
and oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered in public and in the
presence of the defendant.
   (F)   A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the vote of five jurors.
   (G)   In all actions tried before a jury, the judge shall determine all
questions of law, including questions as to the introduction of evidence,
arising during the trial. He or she also shall instruct the jury as to the law.
   (H)   The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be general. When the jury
has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict publicly to the court.
The judge must enter the verdict in the docket or cause it to be so entered.
   (I)   The jury must not be discharged after the cause is submitted to it
until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good cause, discharges it
sooner, in which event the court may proceed again to trial, and so on, until a
verdict is rendered.
§6-131 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the court other than the police
officers or peace officers shall be entitled to a fee as set by the City
Council for each day of attendance. However, no witness shall receive fees in
more than one case for the same period of time. A defendant seeking to subpoena
witnesses must deposit with the clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and
mileage for one day of attendance for each witness to be summoned, but such
deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant who files an affidavit
setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   That the defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
      (4)   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her
proper defense.
   (B)   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the city and may be
recovered as costs as provided in this chapter.
§6-132 COMPENSATION OF JURORS.
   (A)   Jurors shall receive for their services such sum as authorized by the
City Council per day, plus mileage as set by the City Council for each mile
necessarily traveled by the most direct route in going to and from the court
from their respective places of residence.
   (B)   The claims for such compensation shall show the location of the
juror’s residence and the route and miles traveled and must be verified as
other claims against the city are verified.
   (C)   Jurors shall be paid out of the General Fund of the city.
§6-133 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE, PROCEEDINGS.
   After conviction and sentence, the judge may suspend sentence, in accordance
with the provisions of and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by
11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124. The municipal judge may, upon a verdict or plea
of guilty, but before a judgment of guilt, without entering a judgment of guilt
and with the consent of the defendant, suspend or defer further proceedings for
a period of up to one year on such terms and conditions deemed appropriate.
Upon a violation of the conditions of probation or suspension, the municipal
judge may enter a judgment of guilt and proceed in accordance with this
chapter.
§6-134 COMPLAINT; FAILURE TO APPEAR; COURT COSTS.
   Any person, firm or corporation who files a complaint in the municipal court
against another person or persons, and fails to appear to prosecute or testify
on the complaint so filed, or moves to dismiss the same without court approval,
is liable for and shall be assessed and pay all court costs incurred in the
filing of the complaint, not to exceed the maximum allowable under state law
for such court costs.
§6-135 IMPRISONMENT, WORK BY PRISONERS.
   (A)   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the Chief of Police, the
County Sheriff or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   (B)   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving two days of imprisonment
under his or her sentence.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the City Manager,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself or herself, or
by some person designated by him or her, shall oversee the work. If a guard is
necessary, the Chief of Police shall make provision therefor.
§6-136 FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall tax
the costs to the defendant, which costs shall not exceed the maximum allowable
under state law for such costs, plus the fees of witnesses or jurors. The
amount of fine may not exceed the amount set out in §
1-108.
   (B)   The court may order a defendant to provide restitution to the victim,
according to a schedule of payments established by the court, together with
interest upon any pecuniary sum if the defendant agrees to pay such restitution
or, in the opinion of the court, if he or she is able to pay such restitution
without imposing manifest hardship on the defendant or his or her immediate
family and if the extent of the damage to the victim is determined with
reasonable certainty.
      (1)   If the defendant receives probation, any such order for restitution
shall be made in conjunction with probation and shall be made a condition of
the suspended or deferred sentence.
      (2)   The municipal court clerk shall be responsible for the monitoring
and administration of the restitution program.
   (C)   A municipal court technology fee shall be and is hereby established in
the amount of $10. The fee shall be in addition to and not in substitution for
any and all costs, fees, fines or penalties otherwise provided for by law and
assessed on every citation disposed of in the municipal court except seatbelt,
standing and parking and those that are voided, declined for prosecution,
dismissed without costs, or the defendant is acquitted. The revenues generated
by this fee shall be used solely and exclusively for the acquisition,
operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of data processing equipment and
software related to the administration of the municipal criminal justice system
and the costs of prosecution. The currently established bond schedule in place
of the municipal court shall be increased by $10 across all citations to
accurately reflect the addition of this technology fee.
(Ord. 1592, passed 11-23-2004; Ord. 1790, passed 6-25-2019)
PART 7: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Chapter
   
1.    FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
   
2.    SALES TAX
   
3.    TELEPHONE EXCHANGE TAX
   
4.    UTILITIES FEE
   
5.    HOTEL TAX
   
6.    USE TAX
   
7.    EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE FEE
CHAPTER 1: FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
7-101   Depositories designated; funds to be deposited
   
7-102   Security for deposits
   
7-103   “Contractual services” defined for purchasing
   
7-104   By whom made
   
7-105   Competitive bidding
   
7-106   Competitive bidding exemptions
   
7-107   Sales; Council to declare surplus or obsolete competitive bidding
   
7-108   When competitive bidding is not required
§7-101 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED.
   (A)   Those banks and financial institutions as designated by the City
Council, and such financial agencies as may be designated by the City Council,
as official depositories for this city with collateral as provided in this
chapter are hereby authorized as official depositories.
   (B)   The City Treasurer is hereby authorized to deposit the funds of the
city in these depositories.
(Ord. 1197, passed 4-12-1983)
§7-102 SECURITY FOR DEPOSITS.
   The deposits of the city shall be secured as provided for in the security
for Local Public Deposits Act (62 O.S. §§ 517.1 et seq.). The provisions of the
State Security for Local Public Deposits Act are adopted insofar as they are
applicable to the city.
(Ord. 1175, passed 8-24-1982)
§7-103 “CONTRACTUAL SERVICES” DEFINED FOR PURCHASING.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES.
      (1)   Services performed for the city by persons not in the employment of
the city, and may include the use of equipment or the furnishings of
commodities in connection with the services under express or implied contract.
      (2)   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES shall include travel; freight; express; parcel
post; postage; telephone; telegraph; utilities; rents; printing and binding;
repairs, alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and
bridges and other physical facilities of the city; and other services performed
for the city by persons not in the employment of the city.
§7-104 BY WHOM MADE.
   All purchases of goods, supplies, materials, equipment or services for the
city shall be made by the City Manager or his or her appointed representative
in accordance with purchase authorizations issued by the Manager.
§7-105 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   For the procurement of supplies, materials, equipment and/or services valued
in excess of $50,000 in a single transaction, except as provided in §
7-106, the following formal bids and awards are hereby adopted and authorized.
   (A)   The City Manager, or his or her authorized representative, shall
prepare an invitation for bids packet, containing, among other things:
      (1)   Written specifications of the supplies, materials, equipment and
services to be procured;
      (2)   Deadline for receipt of bids;
      (3)   Bid opening date;
      (4)   Required bidder’s qualifications, if any;
      (5)   Statement that the City Council may accept or reject any or all
bids without penalty; and
      (6)   Non-collusion affidavits.
   (B)   Invitation for bids shall be publicized as follows:
      (1)   A brief descriptive advertising in local newspaper and notification
by mail or all known qualified vendors and/or contractors;
      (2)   The minimum advertising period shall be two weeks with two
published notices, the second publication being at least five days after the
first publication, and bid opening not earlier than five days after final
publication; and
      (3)   Bid packets will be maintained by and be available from the office
of the City Manager, or his or her authorized representative.
   (C)   Bid opening shall be as follows.
      (1)   Bids shall be opened on the day and hour and at the place
identified in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Bids shall be opened and read aloud by the City Manager, or his or
her designated representative.
      (3)   Bids shall be tabulated and reviewed for conformity to the
invitation for bids.
   (D)   The City Council shall review the bid tabulations and recommendations
from the City Manager and shall accept or reject any or all bids.
   (E)   At the conclusion of any competitive bidding without the receipt of
any bids in response to the published invitation for bids, the City Manager is
hereby authorized to negotiate contracts to be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1776, passed 4-24-2018)
§7-106 COMPETITIVE BIDDING EXEMPTIONS.
   The City Manager, or his or her designee, may purchase the following without
giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
   (A)   Purchases. Goods or services whose cost does not exceed $100,000 in a
single transaction;
   (B)   Sole source. Goods or services which can be furnished only by a single
vendor, or which have a uniform price wherever bought;
   (C)   Government agencies. Goods or services purchased from another unit of
government at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the State
Purchasing Agency or any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate
prices for things purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a
contract negotiated with a vendor or otherwise;
   (D)   Unique items. Goods or services that by their own nature are unique
and as such are impossible or impractical to purchase by competitive bidding.
These items may include professional services such as attorney, auditor,
physician, financial or personnel consultants and the like; real property;
special purpose items such as used equipment;
   (E)   Miscellaneous. Goods or services that are impossible or impractical to
purchase by competitive bidding because of vendor availability or
qualifications; economic situation; opportunity; necessity; or when in the best
interest of the city. This may include maintenance services, hauling,
agriculture services; items with unstable prices such as fuel or asphalt; and
items that become available for immediate purchase;
   (F)   Emergency purchases. Goods or services purchased where delivery is
critical to life, health or convenience of the city and its inhabitants;
   (G)   State purchasing and purchasing cooperatives. The City Manager is
authorized to designate the State Office of Central Purchasing as its agent for
the purchase or procurement of any item or service contracted or available to
the state under the provisions of the State Central Purchasing Act, 74 O.S. §§
85.1 et seq. In addition, may purchase budgeted supplies, materials, equipment
and services through any purchasing cooperative in which it is a member,
provided the purchasing cooperative utilizes a competitive procurement process
for the selection of eligible vendors;
   (H)   Contractual services. Contractual services of a professional nature,
including, but not limited to, services such as engineering, architectural,
legal and medical services;
   (I)   Utility services. Utility services (gas, electricity, telephone
services and the like) purchased from the public utility corporation at a price
or rate determined by the State Corporation Commission or other government
agency; and
   (J)   Approval by City Council. Any purchase in excess of $75,000 made or
proposed by the City Manager shall be approved by a majority vote of the City
Council.
(Ord. 1776, passed 4-24-2018; Ord. 1846, passed - -2023)
§7-107 SALES; COUNCIL TO DECLARE SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   The City Manager may sell or issue authorizations for the sale of
surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and equipment, subject to the
provisions of this section, this chapter and the Charter.
   (B)   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value, at
the time of sale, of more than $2,500 may be sold until the Council shall have
declared them obsolete or surplus.
   (C)   Before the City Manager sells any surplus or obsolete supplies,
materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided in § 7-108, he or she
shall advertise them for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
or give notice in such other manner as he or she deems necessary adequately to
reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to make bids. All bids shall
be sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated time and place, except
when the sale is by auction. The City Manager may repeatedly reject all bids
and advertise or give notice again. He or she shall sell such supplies,
materials or equipment to the highest responsible bidder for cash. In case of a
tie, he or she may sell to either of the bidders tying or may divide the sale
among two or more tying, always selling to the highest responsible bidder or
bidders for cash.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 35-201 et seq.
§7-108 WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED.
   The City Manager may sell the following without giving an opportunity for
competitive bidding:
   (A)   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total value
does not exceed $2,500 in a single transaction; and
   (B)   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the city for the same.
CHAPTER 2: SALES TAX
Section
   
7-201   Adoption; amendments
   
7-202   Definitions
   
7-203   “Tax Collector” defined
   
7-204   Classification of taxpayers
   
7-205   Subsisting state permits, not a requirement for additional city permit
   
7-206   Effective date
   
7-207   Purpose of revenues
   
7-208   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
7-209   Exemptions
   
7-210   Tax due when; returns; records
   
7-211   Payment of tax; brackets
   
7-212   Tax constitutes debt
   
7-213   Vendor’s duty to collect tax; penalties
   
7-214   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
7-215   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
7-216   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
7-217   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
7-218   Fraudulent returns
   
7-219   Records confidential
   
7-220   Amendments
   
7-221   Provisions cumulative
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions see 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq. and 2701
§7-201 ADOPTION; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as City of Duncan Sales
Tax Ordinance.
   (B)   Following are the sales tax ordinances passed by the city.
 
Ord. Date Description/Purpose
Ord.              Date                           Description/Purpose
759               Effective 10-1-1969            1 cent tax
1116 (Amends 955) Effective 2-3-1981             1 cent tax/capital
                                                 improvements of the city
                  Passed 8-13-1988
1288              Effective 11-1-1988            1 cent tax
                  Terminates 1-31-1991
                  Passed 4-12-1994               1/2 cent tax/economic
1348              Effective 8-1-1994             development
                  Terminates 7-31-1999
                  Passed 10-11-1994              1 cent tax/Waurika project
1363              Effective 1-10-1995            master conservancy district
                  Terminates 1-10-2000
                  Passed 3-11-1997               Extends 1/2 cent tax levied by
1430                                             ordinance 1348/economic
                  Terminates 7-31-2004           development

                  Passed 9-9-1997                1% tax/Waurika project master
1443              Effective 11-11-1997           conservancy district
                  Terminates 11-11-2002
                  Passed 9-23-1997               Amends 1 percent tax levied by
Amended 1443      Effective 11-18-1997           ordinance 1443 by changing
                  Terminates 11-18-2002          effective dates of tax

                  Passed 12-12-2000              The sales tax shall be
                                                 graduated with 1/4 of 1
                                                 percent to begin on July 1,
                                                 2001, and for an additional 3/
                                                 4 of 1 percent to begin
                                                 January 1, 2003, and that the
                  Effective 7-1-2001 (Did not    additional 3/4 of 1 percent
1517              pass vote of the people - this will not become effective
                  tax not colleted)              until the expiration of the 1
                                                 percent sales tax passed by
                                                 ordinance 1443 used solely for
                                                 retiring the Waurika project
                                                 master conservancy district
                                                 debt

                  Passed 2-12-2002               The sales tax shall be a 1
                                                 percent sales tax to begin
                                                 January 1, 2003. However, said
                                                 sales tax will not become
                                                 effective until the expiration
1546              Effective 1-1-2003             of the 1 percent sales tax
                                                 passed by ordinance 1443 used
                                                 solely for retiring the
                                                 Waurika project master
                                                 conservancy district debt

                  Passed 11-12-2002              Amends ordinance 1430 to
                  Effective 11-12-2002           extend for an additional 5
                                                 years beyond its present term
                                                 the existing 1/2 of 1 percent
1556                                             city excise tax used
                  Terminates 7-31-2009           exclusively to fund economic
                                                 development activities and
                                                 creation of jobs with the city

                  Passed 11-28-2006
1641              Effective 7-1-2007 (Did not    1/2 of 1 percent sales and use
                  pass vote of the people - this tax
                  tax not collected)
                  Passed 10-6-2008               Amends ordinance 1556 to
                  Effective 12-9-2008            extend for an additional 5
                                                 years beyond its present term
                                                 the existing 1/2 of 1 percent
1669                                             city excise tax used
                  Terminates 7-30-2014           exclusively to fund economic
                                                 development activities and
                                                 creation of jobs with the city

                  Passed 1-14-2014               Amends ordinance 1669 to
                  Effective 4-1-2014             extend for an additional 5
                                                 years beyond its present term
                                                 the existing 1/2 of 1 percent
                                                 city excise tax used
1721                                             exclusively to fund economic
                  Terminates 7-30-2019           development activities for the
                                                 creation of additional jobs,
                                                 support existing jobs and
                                                 infrastructure improvements
                                                 within the city

                  Passed 11-5-2018               Amends ordinance 1721 by
                  Effective 1-8-2019             providing for extending for an
                  Terminates 7-31-2024           additional 5 years beyond its
                                                 present term the existing 1/
                                                 2 of 1 percent city excise tax
1784                                             used exclusively to fund
                                                 economic development
                  Amended - Terminates 7-31-2029 activities, for the creation
                                                 of additional jobs and support
                                                 of existing jobs within the
                                                 city
 
§7-202 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions of words, terms and phrases
contained in the State Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1352 and 37A O.S. § 1-103, are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
§7-203 “TAX COLLECTOR” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the city or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this chapter.
§7-204 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Sales Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§7-205 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS, NOT A REQUIREMENT FOR ADDITIONAL CITY PERMIT.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.,
are, for the purpose of this chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in
lieu of any requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose.
§7-206 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective as to each cent tax after approval of a
majority of the registered voters of the city voting on the ordinance in the
manner prescribed by 11 O.S. § 16-112.
(Ord. 1288, passed 8-12-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 68 O.S. § 2705
§7-207 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of the revenues provided by the first cent sales tax
to provide revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal
government of the city.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of the revenues provided by
the second cent tax levied by Ord. 1116 to provide revenues solely for capital
improvements of the city and for making deposits into the sinking fund of the
city to pay the principal of and interest on bonded indebtedness of the city
incurred for capital improvements of the city, and the proceeds of the tax
shall be so utilized and shall not be otherwise expended or appropriated.
   (C)   (1)   It is declared to be the sole purpose of the 0.5% sales tax
levied by Ord. 1348, and extended by Ord. 1430, to provide revenues through a
sales tax, the proceeds of which shall be transferred to the city’s Economic
Development Trust Authority (Authority) to be used to provide funds for
economic development of the city; the economic development shall include, but
not be limited to, the creation of funds to be used for marketing the city to
potential new industries, for creating new jobs by attracting new industries to
the city, to retain existing jobs and create additional jobs by expansion of
existing industries, to facilitate the building of new and expansion of
existing industries, and to contract with the city’s Area Economic Development
Foundation (Foundation) in order to obtain foundation assistance in
accomplishing economic development and expansion in the city.
      (2)   All revenues raised herefrom shall be deposited into a special
account to be named the “economic development marketing account of the city,”
and such proceeds will be used specifically for the purposes contained herein.
      (3)   All expenditures of this new tax shall be audited annually.
(Ord. 1288, passed 8-12-1988; Ord. 1348, passed 4-12-1994; Ord. 1363, passed
10-11-1994)
Editor’s note:
   Beginning with Ord. 1443, the purposes of sales tax revenues are summarized
only in § 7-201(B)
§7-208 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   The taxes set forth in §
7-201(B) are hereby levied upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived
from all sales taxable under the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et
seq.
(Ord. 1348, passed 4-12-1994; Ord. 1363, passed 10-11-1994)
§7-209 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions from the tax levied by this chapter shall include all those
allowed under the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§7-210 TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the State
Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§7-211 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the Tax
Collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
city and the Tax Collector, in the collection of both the city sales tax and
the state sales tax.
§7-212 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
§7-213 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this city to collect
from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or
an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as
other debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly
or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein
levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the
tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
1-108.
   (D)   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the city. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that willfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in §
1-108.
§7-214 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the State Sales Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., for collection of state sales taxes.
§7-215 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this chapter. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer
to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if
the delinquency continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit
his or her claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
§7-216 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of § 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
§7-217 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227. To accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
§7-218 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this chapter shall be an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
1-108.
§7-219 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code,
68 O.S. § 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city sales tax as
if herein set forth in full.
§7-220 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance hereby
authorize the City Council, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the city as provided by law.
§7-221 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
CHAPTER 3: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE TAX
Section
   
7-301   Inspection fee and service charge
   
7-302   Fee in lieu of certain other charges
§7-301 INSPECTION FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE.
   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm and corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
city in an amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues for each current year for
exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of
the city to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and services rendered
incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulation
and police control of the construction of lines and equipment of the telephone
company in the city. The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to
the city on or before May 1 of each year and shall be placed in the General
Fund of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 2601 et seq.
§7-302 FEE IN LIEU OF CERTAIN OTHER CHARGES.
   During the continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter
by the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, license, privilege
and permit fees or taxes or assessments except ad valorem taxes; provided,
however, that it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police call systems
of the city.
CHAPTER 4: UTILITIES FEE
Section
   
7-401   Fee on utilities levied
7-401 FEE ON UTILITIES LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied on all companies not paying a franchise tax to the
city an excise tax of 2% upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from
all sales of natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam or any other
utility or public service, except water.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 2601 et seq.
CHAPTER 5: HOTEL TAX
Section
   
7-501   Citation
   
7-502   Definitions
   
7-503   Tax rate
   
7-504   Tax additional to all other excise taxes
   
7-505   Time limit on tax; extension by vote
   
7-506   Exemptions
   
7-507   Certificate of exemption required
   
7-508   Operator responsible for collection
   
7-509   Records to be kept
   
7-510   Returns
   
7-511   Payment of tax
   
7-512   Delinquent taxes
   
7-513   Interest on delinquent taxes
   
7-514   Bond required
   
7-515   Assessment and determination of tax
   
7-516   Refunds
   
7-517   Notices
   
7-518   Remedies exclusive
   
7-519   General powers of the Director
   
7-520   Certificates of registration
   
7-521   Discount
   
7-522   Use of funds collected
   
7-523   Records confidential
   
7-524   Fraudulent returns
   
7-525   Amendments
   
7-526   Provisions cumulative
§7-501 CITATION.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the City of Duncan Hotel Tax.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Finance of the city.
   HOTEL.
      (1)   Any building or buildings, structures, trailer or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in
which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation of such guests whether
such rooms are in one or several structures.
      (2)   The term shall include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist
homes, houses or courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, bed and
breakfast establishments, trailer houses, trailer motels, dormitory space,
where bed space is rented to individuals or groups, apartments not occupied by
“permanent residents” and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping
facilities or space are furnished for a consideration. The term shall not
include hospitals, sanatoriums or nursing homes.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
   OCCUPANT. A person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel in this city, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any occupant who has or shall have the right of
occupancy of any room or rooms in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive days
during the current calendar year or preceding year.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deductions
therefrom whatsoever.
   RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
   ROOM. Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which
is available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, PLACE OF ASSEMBLY means a room or space
which is capable of being occupied by 35 or more persons and which is used for
educational, recreational or amusement purposes and shall include:
      (1)   Any room or space for public or private banquets, feasts, socials,
card parties or weddings;
      (2)   Billiard, bowling and table tennis rooms;
      (3)   Broadcasting studios;
      (4)   Cabarets;
      (5)   Concert halls;
      (6)   Dance halls;
      (7)   Funeral parlors;
      (8)   Gymnasiums;
      (9)   Halls or rooms used for public or private catering purposes;
      (10)   Lodge and meeting halls or rooms;
      (11)   Markets;
      (12)   Nightclubs;
      (13)   Recreational rooms;
      (14)   Restaurants;
      (15)   Skating rinks;
      (16)   Swimming pools; and
      (17)   All other places of similar type of occupancy.
   TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-503 TAX RATE.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an excise tax of 5%, in addition to all
other excise taxes levied and assessed upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a
hotel in this city. The terms and provisions of the state tax statutes, where
applicable and not in conflict with the terms of this chapter, are incorporated
herein by reference thereto.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-504 TAX ADDITIONAL TO ALL OTHER EXCISE TAXES.
   The excise tax levied pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is in
addition to any and all other excise taxes levied or assessed by the city or
any other taxing authority.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-505 TIME LIMIT ON TAX; EXTENSION BY VOTE.
   (A)   The hotel tax levied and imposed by this chapter shall remain in
effect for a period of 20 years, commencing on August 3, 2009, and ending on
August 2, 2029, and shall be collected on all rent for every occupancy of a
room or rooms in a hotel within this city on and between those dates.
   (B)   The effective dates and duration of the tax imposed by this chapter
may be extended or changed by a majority vote of qualified electors of the city
as provided by law.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-506 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from the tax levied in this chapter:
   (A)   Permanent residents;
   (B)   The United States government or any agency or division thereof;
   (C)   The state or any political subdivision thereof; and
   (D)   Any organization, corporation or association organized and operated
exclusively for religious, charitable, philanthropic or educational purposes
provided that its primary purpose is not carrying on a trade or business for
profit.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-507 CERTIFICATE OF EXEMPTION REQUIRED.
   Anyone claiming to be exempt from the tax must obtain a certification from
the Director that the organization, association or corporation with which he or
she is affiliated is exempt from the tax. Prior to issuing such a certificate,
the Director shall require a certification from the organization, association
or corporation that the occupant is its agent, representative or employee and
that his or her occupancy of the room is required in connection with the
affairs of the organization, association or corporation.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-508 OPERATOR RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTION.
   The operator shall be responsible for the collection of the tax from the
occupant and shall be liable to the city for the tax.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-509 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent
paid, charged or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as the
Director may by regulation require.
   (B)   Such records shall be available for inspection and examination at any
time upon demand by the Director, or a duly authorized agent or employee of the
city and shall be preserved for a period of three years except that the
Director may consent to their destruction within that period or may require
that they be kept longer.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-510 RETURNS.
   (A)   Every operator shall file with the Director a return of occupancy and
of rents and of the taxes payable on a monthly basis. The return shall be filed
no later than the tenth calendar day of each month for the occupancy, rents and
taxes payable for the preceding month from and after the effective date of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Director may permit or require returns to be made by shorter or
longer periods and upon such dates as he or she may specify. The form of return
shall be prescribed by the Director and shall contain such information as he or
she may deem necessary for the proper administration of this chapter. The
Director may require amended returns to be filed within 20 days after notice
and to contain the information specified in the notice.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-511 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator
shall pay to the Director the taxes imposed by this chapter upon the rents
included in such return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator
acting or purporting to act under the provisions of this chapter. All the taxes
for the period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due from the
operator and payable to the Director on or before the date fixed for the filing
of the return for such period without regard to whether a return is filed or
whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents and the
taxes due thereon.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-512 DELINQUENT TAXES.
   The tax levied by this chapter shall be due and payable at the time of the
filing of the returns provided for in this chapter. All taxes not paid within
five days from the time they become due shall be delinquent. If taxes are
delinquent for more than 30 days, city utility services for water, sewer and
refuse collection for the hotel shall be terminated until the operator pays all
past due taxes and interest. Upon full payment of delinquent taxes and
interest, city utility services shall be restored for the hotel as provided in
this code.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-513 INTEREST ON DELINQUENT TAXES.
   If any tax levied by this chapter becomes delinquent, the person responsible
and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid tax at the rate of 1%
per month on the unpaid balance from the date of delinquency.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-514 BOND REQUIRED.
   Where the Director believes that any operator is about to cease business,
leave the state or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason
he or she deems it necessary to protect the revenues collected under this
chapter, he or she may require such operator to file with the city a bond
issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state in
such amount as the Director may fix to secure the payment of any tax or
penalties and interest due, or which may become due from such operator. In the
event that the Director determines that an operator is to file such bond, he or
she shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount of bond required.
The operator shall file such bond within five days after the giving of notice
unless within such five days the operator shall request in writing a hearing
before the City Council, at which hearing the necessity of the bond and amount
of the bond shall be determined by the City Council. Such determination shall
be final and shall be complied with within 15 days thereafter. In lieu of such
bond, securities approved by the Director or cash in such amount as he or she
may prescribe, may be deposited with the Director who may at any time after
five days’ notice to the depositor, apply them to any tax or any penalties due
and for that purpose the securities may be sold at private or public sale.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-515 ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX.
   (A)   If a return required by this chapter is not filed, or if a return when
filed is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by
the Director from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the
tax may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as: number of
rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and
services, number of employees or other factors.
   (B)   Written notice of such assessments shall be given to the person liable
for the collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax, unless the person against whom it is
assessed, within 90 days after the giving of notice of such assessment, shall
apply in writing to the City Council for a hearing, or unless the Director on
his or her own initiative shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the City
Council shall give written notice of its determination to the person against
whom the tax is assessed and such determination shall be final.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-516 REFUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Director shall refund or credit any tax erroneously
collected if written application to the Director for such refund shall be made
within two years from the date of payment thereof.
      (2)   For like causes, and in the same period, a refund may be so made
upon the initiative and the order of the Director.
      (3)   Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in
writing. Such application may be made by the person upon whom such tax was
imposed and who has actually paid the tax. Such application may also be made by
the person who has collected and paid such tax to the Director providing that
the application is made within two years of the payment by the occupant to the
operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator until he or she
has repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application for the refund
is made.
      (4)   The Director, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow
credit therefor on payments due from the applicant.
   (B)   Upon application for a refund, the Director may receive evidence with
respect thereof and make such investigation as he or she deems necessary. After
making a determination as to the refund, the Director shall give notice thereof
to the applicant. Such determination shall be final unless the applicant within
90 days after such notice shall apply in writing to the City Council for a
hearing. After such hearing the City Council shall give written notice of its
decision to the applicant.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-517 NOTICES.
   Notices provided for under this chapter shall be deemed to have been given
when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in
the United States mail to the last known address of the operator.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-518 REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided in this chapter shall be exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-519 GENERAL POWERS OF THE DIRECTOR.
   In addition to all other powers granted to the Director, the Director is
hereby authorized and empowered:
   (A)   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this chapter for the purposes thereof;
   (B)   To extend, for cause shown, the time for filing any return for a
period not exceeding 60 days; and, for cause shown, to waive, remit or reduce
penalties or interest;
   (C)   To delegate his or her functions hereunder to an assistant or other
employee or employees of the city;
   (D)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes imposed
by this chapter, but not the tax rate; and
   (E)   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-520 CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every operator shall file with the Director a certificate of
registration in a form prescribed by the Director within ten days after the
effective date of this chapter, or in the case of operator’s commencing
business or opening new hotels after such effective date, within three days
after such commencement or opening.
   (B)   (1)   The Director shall, within five days after such registration,
issue, without charge, to each operator, a certificate of authority empowering
such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and duplicates thereof for
each additional hotel.
      (2)   Each certificate or duplicate shall state the hotel to which it is
applicable. Such certificate of authority shall be permanently displayed by the
operator in such manner that it may be seen and come to the notice of all
occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificates shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
Director upon the cessation of business at the hotel named or upon its sale or
transfer.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-521 DISCOUNT.
   In order to remunerate an operator for keeping tax records, filing reports
and remitting the tax when due, a 3% discount shall be allowed upon all taxes
paid prior to the time they become delinquent.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-522 USE OF FUNDS COLLECTED.
   All taxes collected pursuant to provisions of this chapter shall be placed
in the General Fund of the city, shall be budgeted and appropriated annually by
the city and used exclusively for the purpose of encouraging, promoting and
fostering conventions, tourism and maintenance of facilities at the Simmons
Center.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-523 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, and subsections
thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and
applicable to the administration of the hotel tax as if herein set forth.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-524 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   The willful failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false or fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this chapter shall be an offense, and, upon conviction
thereof, the offending operator shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-525 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of this chapter at the election
herein provided, hereby authorize the City Council, by ordinance or resolution
duly enacted, to enter into an agreement with other parties to carry out the
intent and purpose of this chapter, to make such administrative and technical
changes or additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing
this chapter as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness except
that the rate of the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval
of the qualified electors of the city as provided by law. Provided that this
chapter may be repealed in its entirety by initiative and referendum procedures
established by the City Charter and the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
§7-526 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(Ord. 1673, passed 12-9-2008)
CHAPTER 6: USE TAX
Section
   
7-601   Use tax levied
   
7-602   Purpose of revenues; apportionment
   
7-603   Exemptions
   
7-604   Time when due; returns; payment
   
7-605   Tax constitutes debt
   
7-606   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
7-607   Tax collection permits
   
7-608   Revoking permits
   
7-609   Remunerative deductions allowed vendors or retailers of other states
   
7-610   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
7-611   Collection of interest and penalties
   
7-612   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
7-613   Fraudulent returns
   
7-614   Records confidential
   
7-615   Provisions cumulative
   
7-616   Provisions severable
   
7-617   Definitions
   
7-618   Classification of taxpayers
   
7-619   Subsisting state permits
§7-601 USE TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the city tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into this city, an excise tax on the storage, use or other
consuming within the city of such property at the same rate as the sales tax,
as set out in §
7-201 on the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every
person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the city, tangible,
personal property purchased or brought into the city. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the city and shall be assessed only to property purchased outside the
state; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the city, but which
is stored in the city pending shipment outside the city of which is temporarily
retained in the city for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein, may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales
tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount
deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the tax
imposed by the city had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-602 PURPOSE OF REVENUES; APPORTIONMENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenue
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city and
any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of
the city for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as
authorized.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-603 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the city by a nonresident individual visiting this city for his or
her personal use or enjoyment while within the city;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and the city use tax ordinance has been
paid by the person using such tangible, personal property in the city, whether
such tax was levied under the laws of the state or some other state or city of
the United States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already
been subjected to tax by the state or any other state or city in respect to its
sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the State Use Tax
Code and the city use tax measured by the difference only between the rate
provided by both the State Use Tax Code and the city use tax ordinance and the
rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided that
no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or city, if that state
or city does not grant like credit for taxes paid in the state and the city;
   (D)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the city;
   (E)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the city by an individual with intent to become a resident of the
city where such personal property is for such individual’s personal use or
enjoyment;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; and
   (G)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
the city for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-604 TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT.
   The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the State Use
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-605 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-606 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the state and making sales of tangible, personal property from a
place of business outside this state for use in the city shall at the time of
making such sales collect the use tax levied by this chapter from the purchaser
and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed
by the State Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall by regulation, require
such receipt.
   (B)   Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax Commission the name
and address of all his or her agents operating in the city and location of any
and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business in
this city.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-607 TAX COLLECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   The Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize
the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in the city and by the out of state place of
business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the state and making sales of tangible, personal property at such
out of state place of business for use in the city. Such retailer or vendor may
be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the Tax
Commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it
shall prescribe.
   (B)   When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to
collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his or her
knowledge for use within the city. Such authority and permit may be canceled
when at any time the Tax Commission considers that such tax can more
effectively be collected from the person using such property in the city.
   (C)   Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are made or
completed by delivery to the purchaser within the city by the retailer or
vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by
common carrier) such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to
applicable city sales tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be
collected and reported under taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-608 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., or any order, rules or
regulations of the Tax Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and
hearing as provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit,
if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor
is a corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this chapter, the State Use Tax Code or any
order, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-609 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.; and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall
be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said code for the
collection of state use taxes.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-610 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this chapter. Provided, that the failure or refusal of
any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax
in the time and manner required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount
allowed under this chapter.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-611 COLLECTION OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittances as
applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220, and
to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said §
220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-612 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure and
under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the state
use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purpose of this
section, the applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-613 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this chapter shall be an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than $750. Each day of
noncompliance with this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-614 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, of the
State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and each subsection thereof,
is hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the city use tax as is herein set forth in full.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-615 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the city ordinances.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-616 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE.
   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this chapter is for any reason held
invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-617 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions of words, terms and phrases
contained in the State Use Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter, and the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Duncan, Oklahoma.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the city government or the official agency
of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law,
to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-618 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Use Tax Code,
being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
§7-619 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., are for the
purpose of this chapter hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. 1634, passed 6-20-2006)
CHAPTER 7: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE FEE
Section
   
7-701   Fee imposed
§7-701 FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2011, the city is authorized to increase the base
tariff rate for all telephone landlines within the city to 15%. The city is
also authorized to collect the fee from AT&T, or other landline provider and to
use said fees as prescribed by law.
   (B)   Effective January 1, 2011, the city is authorized to charge a fee of
$0.50 per month per wireless phone subscribers for all persons residing within
the city limits, and authorizing the billing and collection of the fees from
all wireless service providers for payment to ASCOG or other authorized agency
for disbursement to the city.
   (C)   Effective January 1, 2016, the city is authorized to charge an
emergency service fee of $0.50 per month per user of an interconnected voice
over internet protocol (VoIP) service.
(Ord. 1693, passed 12-23-2010; Ord. 1744, passed 11-10-2015)
PART 8: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Chapter
   
1.    WEEDS AND TRASH
   
2.    FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
   
3.    NUISANCES
   
4.    INOPERABLE, UNLICENSED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
5.    LITTERING
   
6.    TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
   
7.    MEDICAL MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 1: WEEDS AND TRASH
Section
   
8-101   Accumulation of trash or weeds unlawful; nuisance declared
   
8-102   Report to be made
   
8-103   Cleaning and mowing; adoption of state law
   
8-104   Work done by employees or contract
   
8-105   Collection of costs
   
8-106   Disposal of tree trimmings, leaves, building and manufacturing refuse
   
8-107   Responsibility of owners or occupants to trim trees and vegetation;
nuisance declared
   
8-108   Penalty
§8-101 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH OR WEEDS UNLAWFUL; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner and/or occupant of any lot, tract or
parcel of land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the
city to allow trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises,
and it is the duty of such owner and/or occupant to remove or destroy any such
trash or weeds.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner and/or occupant of any lot, tract or
parcel of land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the
city to allow trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon the alleyways or
street rights-of-way adjacent to such premises, and it is the duty of such
owner and/or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
   (C)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any person to suffer
or permit on premises within the city any violation of this section or any
other trash or weeds as defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 1746, passed 12-8-2015)
§8-102 REPORT TO BE MADE.
   (A)   Any officer or employee of the city who discovers or receives a report
or complaint of an accumulation of trash or the growth of grass and weeds, or
both these conditions, upon any premises within the city shall report such
conditions to the code enforcement officer or such other department or official
as the City Manager may designate. To this end, all officers and employees of
the city are authorized to inspect property to determine if a violation of this
chapter exists.
   (B)   Upon receiving and verifying the report or equivalent information from
any reliable source, said officer shall abate such conditions as provided in
this chapter or in any other manner as this code provides.
(Ord. 1746, passed 12-8-2015)
§8-103 CLEANING AND MOWING; ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   The provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-111 and all subsequent amendments
thereto are hereby adopted for the cleaning and mowing of trash and weeds. For
the purpose of this chapter, the terms TRASH and WEEDS shall have the
definitions respectively assigned to them by said law. Notice of the hearing to
determine whether trash or weeds should be cleaned or mowed shall be given
concurrently by posting a copy of the notice on the property affected and by
mail to the property owner without necessity for publication. Said notice may
be given concurrently with notice of other hearings on the condition of the
property or dilapidated buildings thereon and may include additional notice of
summary abatement, if anticipated.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized to carry
out the duties of the City Council for the cleaning and mowing of trash and
weeds and for the assessment of costs incurred in the abatement thereof. The
City Manager may continue a hearing from time to time for the convenience of
the parties. An appeal from any order of the City Manager may be taken by
filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days after the
order is rendered.
(Ord. 1746, passed 12-8-2015)
§8-104 WORK DONE BY EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACT.
   The City Manager may accomplish the cleaning and mowing of trash and weeds
by force account or private contract, and he or she is authorized to execute
contracts in furtherance of the same. If done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder according to such rules
and regulations as the City Council may prescribe.
(Ord. 1746, passed 12-8-2015)
§8-105 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   At any time prior to the collection of costs for cleaning and mowing as
provided by law, the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the
amount owing and interest thereon, including an action in personam against the
owner and an action in rem to foreclose the city’s lien against the property.
Upon receiving payment, the City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer a
notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
(Ord. 1746, passed 12-8-2015)
§8-106 DISPOSAL OF TREE TRIMMINGS, LEAVES, BUILDING AND MANUFACTURING REFUSE.
   Tree trimmings, building and manufacturing refuse, grass, weeds, leaves and
rocks shall not be allowed to accumulate upon any premises in the city so as to
create a menace to health, a fire hazard or an unsightly appearance and shall
be removed at the expense of the person responsible for the accumulation. Under
no condition may tree trimmings, grass, weeds, leaves or building and
manufacturing wastes be burned within the city limits, except as may be
permitted within
Part 13, Chapter 2, Article C of this code.
(Ord. 1746, passed 12-8-2015)
§8-107 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS TO TRIM TREES AND VEGETATION;
NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term RIGHT-OF-WAY means the area
between the roadway or street and a sidewalk or the area between the roadway or
street and the property line.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of every lot or parcel of land upon which any
trees, shrubs or other vegetation are growing shall have the duty to maintain
the same in a prudent and proper manner. The owner or occupant of the property
adjacent to the right-of-way shall be responsible for the care and maintenance
of all such vegetation located in the right-of-way.
   (C)   Every person shall maintain all trees, shrubs and other vegetation
located on his or her property or in the right-of-way to which such property is
adjacent in such a manner so that such vegetation shall not obstruct the free
and convenient travel over and along the sidewalk and streets. Such owner or
occupant shall keep removed from the vegetation all dead, decayed or broken
branches that overhang any street, sidewalk or right-of-way.
   (D)   All dead trees on private property, or within the adjacent right-of-
way or easement, shall be removed by the owner or occupant of such property.
   (E)   The owner or occupant shall make a reasonable effort to treat any
trees, shrubs or other vegetation growing on the owner’s or occupant’s property
or on the right-of-way adjacent thereto for any disease or for any insect
infestation in such a manner as to control such disease or insect infestation.
   (F)   No owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land shall fail, refuse
or neglect to care for any tree, shrub or plant as provided in divisions (B),
(C), (D) and (E) above after receiving notice from the city to do so, within
the time limited in the notice. Each day that the owner or occupant shall fail,
refuse or neglect to care for any vegetation after the time limited in the
notice shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   (G)   Any condition of any tree, shrub or other vegetation prohibited by
this section is declared to constitute a nuisance. In addition to any other
penalties for violation of this section, the same shall be subject to abatement
in the manner provided in §
8-103 and
Chapter 3 of this part. The remedy of abatement shall be cumulative and in
addition to all other penalties.
(Ord. 1746, passed 12-8-2015)
Cross-reference:
   See also §
14-102
§8-108 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, whether the same has been declared a nuisance or not, shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1746, passed 12-8-2015)
CHAPTER 2: FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Section
   
8-201   Food service, regulations
   
8-202   Food service manager’s permits
   
8-203   Definitions
   
8-204   Food establishment permits
   
8-205   Inspection of food service establishments
   
8-206   Revocation of permits
   
8-207   Penalty
§8-201 FOOD SERVICE, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The latest edition of the State Board of Health Rules and Regulations
Pertaining to Food Establishments is hereby adopted and incorporated in this
code by reference. At least one copy of the rules and regulations shall be on
file in the office of the City Clerk. The rules and regulations shall govern
the definitions; inspection of food service establishments; the issuance,
suspension and revocation of permits to operate food service establishments;
the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or misbranded food or drink and the
enforcement of this section.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in §
1-108. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may be enjoined
from continuing the violation.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-1101 et seq. and 1-1118
§8-202 FOOD SERVICE MANAGER’S PERMITS.
   It is unlawful for any food service establishment or a restaurant within the
city or its police jurisdiction, to be in operation without a manager who has
obtained a valid food service manager’s permit issued by the city. The city
permit will be issued after the applicant has obtained and is approved and
listed by the State Department of Health and has made payment of the permit.
The permit fee shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1253, passed 7-22-1986; Ord. 1827, passed 3-8-2022)
§8-203 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   .   >FOOD. Any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use, or for sale in whole or in part, for human
consumption, or chewing gum.
   FOOD EMPLOYEE. Any person working in a food service establishment who
transports food or food containers, who engages in food preparation or service
or who comes in contact with any food utensils, equipment or food-contact
surfaces.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment where food or beverage is
prepared for final consumption and sold at retail, or any operation that
stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends food directly to the consumer either
for on-premises or off-premises consumption, be it fixed, mobile, temporary or
seasonal as further defined by the State Department of Health. A food service
establishment/bar shall be exempt from this requirement.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health or the State Commissioner
of Health, or authorized agent.
   RESTAURANT. Any RESTAURANT within the meaning of this chapter shall be
defined as a restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order café,
luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, food trailer, soda fountain and all other
establishments as well as kitchens in which food and drink are prepared for
sale elsewhere to the public.
(Ord. 1827, passed 3-8-2022)
§8-204 FOOD ESTABLISHMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a food service
establishment or a restaurant within the city limits that does not possess both
a current license from the State Department of Health and a current food
service establishment permit issued by the City Clerk.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the requirements of this chapter shall
be entitled to receive and retain such a permit.
   (B)   Every person desiring a permit to operate a food service establishment
or a restaurant in the city shall make application for a certificate of
compliance to the Department of Community Development. Upon approval of the
application by the Department of Community Development, a permit may be issued
by the City Clerk. The permit fee shall be as set by the City Council.
   (C)   Permits shall be conspicuously posted at all times and are not
transferable to another person, entity or location.
(Ord. 1222, passed 3-27-1984; Ord. 1827, passed 3-8-2022)
§8-205 INSPECTION OF FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   At least once every 12 months, the Department of Community
Development shall cause every food service establishment or restaurant located
within the city to be inspected for compliance, proper maintenance and upkeep.
Fixed food service establishments or restaurants will be inspected annually, by
the Ward located during normal business hours.
         (a)   Ward 1: January through March;
         (b)   Ward 2: April through May;
         (c)   Ward 3: June through August; and
         (d)   Ward 4: September through October.
      (2)   All other applicants will be inspected upon request of the Health
Department or upon the application of a mobile, temporary or seasonal
establishment.
   (B)   Inspection reports shall be kept on file with the Department of
Community Development. A copy of the inspection report shall be sent to the
applicant. Duplicate copies of the inspection report shall be provided to the
County Health Department and the City Clerk.
   (C)   City inspectors conducting inspections of food service establishments
or restaurants must note on the inspection report any and all violations,
sanitation requirements, as well as all violations of the standards enumerated
in the state rules and regulations adopted herein, to include all local
ordinances and building codes as adopted by the city.
(Ord. 1222, passed 3-27-1984; Ord. 1827, passed 3-8-2022)
§8-206 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A food establishment permit for the operation of a food service
establishment or restaurant may be temporarily suspended by the city upon
violation, by the holder, of any of the terms of this chapter. For the purpose
of this division (A), a VIOLATION is defined as noncompliance with health
standards or the rules and regulations adopted herein.
   (B)   In the event a permit for the operation of a restaurant is temporarily
suspended by the city, the holder of the permit may request a reinspection
within 24 hours in order to allow the holder to correct all violations and
deficiencies noted in the inspection which caused the permit to be suspended.
   (C)   A temporary revocation of a permit for the operation of a restaurant
shall remain in effect until such time as all violations of the terms of this
chapter are corrected or so long as the operation of the restaurant adversely
affects the health of the public.
(Ord. 1222, passed 3-27-1984; Ord. 1827, passed 3-8-2022)
§8-207 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter or
any legal order or regulation of the health officer shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided in §
1-108.
CHAPTER 3: NUISANCES
Section
   
8-301   Definitions
   
8-302   Persons responsible
   
8-303   Time does not legalize
   
8-304   Remedies against public nuisances
   
8-305   Remedies against private nuisances
   
8-306   City power to define and summarily abate nuisances
   
8-307   Certain public nuisances in the city defined
   
8-308   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
8-309   Abatement by suit in district court
   
8-310   Nuisance unlawful
   
8-311   Health nuisances; abatement
   
8-312   Toilet facilities required; nuisance
   
8-313   Procedure cumulative
§8-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or is
any thing or condition which either: annoys, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health or safety of others; offends decency; unlawfully interferes
with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or renders dangerous for passage, any
lake or navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or any public park, square,
street or other public property; or in any way renders other persons insecure
in life or in the use of property; provided, however, this definition shall not
apply to preexisting agricultural activities.
      PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in the definition for
public nuisance is a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.
§8-302 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
§8-303 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
§8-304 REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
   (A)   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
   (B)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (C)   Civil action; or
   (D)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
      (2)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
§8-305 REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   (A)   Civil action; or
   (B)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
      (2)   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance.
§8-306 CITY POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES.
   (A)   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the city has power to determine what is
and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits.
   (B)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the city has the power summarily to
abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him or
her to be heard, if this can be done.
§8-307 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES IN THE CITY DEFINED.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome food or drink; or
the keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinances of the city;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the city or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      (8)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (9)   Noise disturbances as follows:
         (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this division (A)(9), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
            NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or
tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
            NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any plainly audible sound which: injures or
endangers the safety or health of a human; annoys or disturbs a reasonable
person of normal sensitivities; or endangers or injures personal or real
property.
            PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Where the listener clearly can hear the content of
the sound produced by the noise source. Sounds which may be clearly audible
include, but are not limited to, musical rhythms, spoken words, vocal sounds
and engine noises.
         (b)   Prohibited generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to
make, continue or cause to be made or continued any excessive, unnecessary or
unusual noise disturbance or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others, within the
limits of the city.
         (c)   Specific prohibitions.
            1.   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played,
used or operated, any radio, tape recorder, cassette player or other machine or
device for reproducing sound, if the machine or device causes a noise
disturbance and if it is located in or on any of the following:
a.   Any public property, including any public street, highway, building,
sidewalk, park or thoroughfare;
b.   Any motor vehicle on a public street, highway or public space if the sound
generated is audible at a distance of 50 feet from the device producing the
sound, unless the motor vehicle is located in a residentially zoned
neighborhood; or
c.   In a residentially zoned district (R-1 through R-4), including public
rights-of-way, if the sound generated is audible at a distance of 30 feet from
the device producing sound between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the
following day.
            2.   No person shall participate in making boisterous, belligerent
or clamorous noisemaking, shouting, carousing, singing or other prolonged
noisemaking such as to produce a noise disturbance.
         (d)   Enforcement. Powers of arrest or citation. Any authorized police
officer shall issue a citation for any violation under this division (A)(9).
Any citizen may, upon the observance of a violation, sign a complaint which may
be enforced by issuance of citation and tried in municipal court.
         (e)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision
of this division (A)(9), upon conviction, shall be fined in accordance with §
1-108 .
      (10)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (11)   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      (12)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (13)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things, which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs; and the premises on which such exist;
      (14)   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (15)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (16)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      (17)   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as may be required by law for vehicles
used on the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district, and
storage of more than one inoperable, junk or salvaged car on residential lots
whether licensed or unlicensed;
      (18)   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of this city, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      (19)   The keeping of any dog kennels within this city for the breeding
and raising of dogs that shall become offensive or annoying to the public by
reason of the barking and noise made by the animals therein contained, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      (20)   Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human excrement,
slops, garbage, refuse or other filthy substance, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance;
      (21)   Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs, manure, decayed or decaying
vegetable matter, left, kept or maintained in such condition as to endanger the
public health is hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      (22)   The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of this city in
violation of this code is hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      (23)   Every privy or water closet which shall be in an overflowing,
leaking or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious or annoying
to the comfort, health and welfare of any resident of this city is hereby
declared a nuisance;
      (24)   Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept in any exposed or
open place within the limits of this city is hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      (25)   Any unclean, foul, leaking or broken or defective ditch, drain,
gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box or other receptacle in this city is
hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      (26)   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of this city or its inhabitants
from any cause, is hereby declared to be a nuisance; and
      (27)   Laser devices as follows:
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to focus, point or shine a
laser beam directly or indirectly on another person or animal in such a manner
as to harass, annoy or injure said person or animal, or as to disturb public
peace; and
         (b)   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18
years to possess a laser pointing device.
            2.   A person shall not be in violation of this division (A)(27) if
his or her possession of a laser pointing device is necessary for his or her
employment, trade or occupation and it is necessary for the pointer to be
carried on his or her person.
   (B)   The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative
and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms.
(Ord. 1479, passed 2-9-1999; Ord. 1491, passed 8-24-1999)
§8-308 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require the City Manager or other appropriate
officer or agency of the city government to take immediate and proper action
summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until
more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the City
Attorney, the building inspector, the Electrical Official, the Plumbing
Official or any other officer subordinate to the City Manager may submit
through or with the consent of the City Manager to the City Council, a
statement as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the
city or law and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The City Manager
himself or herself, the health officer, any Council member or any resident or
residents of the city may submit such a statement and request a recommendation
to the City Council.
   (C)   The Council shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is a
nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject, the
Council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers and
other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the
Council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner
of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed responsible
for or to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if
such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the
owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by
service by a police officer if their names and addresses are known; but, if the
names or addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be
published in a paper of general circulation within the city.
   (D)   (1)   If the Council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it
shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if
the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate
it within the specified time, the Council shall direct the City Manager to
abate the nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as
authorized by 50 O.S. § 16.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city
collectible as other debts of the city may be collected.
§8-309 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
city may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
§8-310 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the city or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or her control within the
city.
§8-311 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the health
officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any private
premises in the city to remove from such premises, at his or her own expense,
any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any
other condition adversely affecting the public health, within 24 hours, or
within such other time as may be reasonable, and a failure to do so shall
constitute an offense.
      (2)   Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health
officer or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual
place of abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state.
If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent
is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served by posting a copy
thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper
having a general circulation in the city.
   (B)   (1)   If the order is not complied with, the health officer may cause
the order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be
certified to the City Clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance
shall be added to the water bill or other city utility bill of the owner or
occupant if he or she is a user of water from the city water system or such
other utility service.
      (2)   The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which
it is added, and shall become due and payable, and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment, as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any city utility service, such cost,
after certification to the City Clerk, may be collected in any manner in which
any other debt due the city may be collected.
§8-312 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as
to conform with the specifications approved by the State Department of Health.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   (B)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate within this city shall install, equip and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by use of a
sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy. The closets and toilets hereby
required shall be of the sanitary water closet type when located within 300
feet of a sanitary sewer and accessible thereto, and of the sanitary water
closet type (notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the
water closet type emptying into a septic tank system or the pit privy type. A
septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only if it meets
the standards of and is approved by the State Department of Health.
   (C)   All human excrement disposed of within this city shall be disposed of
by depositing it in closets and privies of the type provided for in this
section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within the city to permit the
disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to
dispose of human excrement within the city in any other manner.
   (D)   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop or anything other than
human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy. No excrement
from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery or other serious bowel
disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or sanitary water closet
until it is disinfected in such a manner as may be prescribed by the health
officer.
   (E)   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section, and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public health, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as
such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense, and
each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
§8-313 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative onto any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
CHAPTER 4: INOPERABLE, UNLICENSED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
8-401   Definitions
   
8-402   Storing, parking on private property
   
8-403   Responsibility for removal
   
8-404   Notice to remove
   
8-405   Content of notice
   
8-406   Removal by city
   
8-407   Disposition of vehicles
   
8-408   Abandoned vehicles on private property
   
8-409   Inoperable, unlicensed and abandoned vehicles on public property
   
8-410   Notice to remove from public property
   
8-411   Removal of vehicles
   
8-412   Action in lieu of impoundment
   
8-413   Penalty
§8-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicle which is
15 years of age or older. The owner of the vehicle must have plans to restore
the vehicle and must have made reasonable progress within the preceding 12
months toward completion of such restoration.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperable, severely damaged or
missing major body parts, drive train components or wheels.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, campers and trailers.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property located within the city which is
privately owned and which is not included within the definition of PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, highway or alley, including the entire width
between the right-of-way lines, publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and any other publicly owned property or facility.
   UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is designed or intended to
operate upon a public street which does not bear a valid, unexpired license
plate.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-402 STORING, PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or
leaving of any motor vehicle which is inoperable or unlicensed upon private
property within the city for a period of more than ten days except as provided
below.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Motor vehicles properly stored in connection with a lawful business
under the zoning regulations of the city;
      (2)   Operable motor vehicles designed for operation upon a raceway or
operable off-road recreational vehicles stored or parked in conformance with
other applicable ordinances of the city;
      (3)   Motor vehicles within an enclosed building; or
      (4)   The storage of not more than two antique vehicles when maintained
within the rear yard of a residence and screened from view from adjacent
streets, alleys and private property by fence or evergreen hedge of not less
than six feet in height.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-403 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner of an abandoned, inoperable or unlicensed vehicle and the
owner or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either
or all of them, shall be responsible for the vehicle’s removal.
   (B)   In the event of removal and disposition by the city, the owner of the
private property where the same is located shall be liable for any expenses
incurred. Should the occupant of the property be the owner of the vehicle, then
the occupant shall be liable for any expenses incurred.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-404 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Notice of an apparent violation of the provisions of §
8-402 shall be served by certified mail to the occupant of the premises or, if
unoccupied, to the owner at the last known address of the owner. If delivery is
not accepted, notice shall be given by posting same in a conspicuous place upon
the property or vehicle in question.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-405 CONTENT OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice shall contain a request for removal of the motor vehicle in
question within ten days of receipt or posting thereof and shall advise that a
citation for violation of §
8-402 may be filed in municipal court upon failure to comply.
   (B)   Notice shall also specify that upon conviction in municipal court the
city may seek removal of the vehicles with the costs thereof being levied
against the occupant or owner of the property, in addition to any fines and
court costs and that each day the vehicle remains upon the property may
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-406 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   (A)   Upon one or more convictions for violation of this chapter and failure
to remove the vehicles cited therein, the City Manager or his or her designee
may authorize the impoundment of the vehicle by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a written request, the Chief of Police or his or her
designee shall secure the impoundment of the specified vehicle. It shall be
unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow such
person or persons to enter upon private property for the purpose of removing a
vehicle under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-407 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   Vehicles impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
abandoned and shall be disposed of or returned to the possession of the owner
or lienholder in the manner prescribed by 47 O.S. §§ 907 et seq. for vehicles
abandoned on public property.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-408 ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   In the event that the owner or occupant of a property is not the owner
of a vehicle cited under the provisions of this chapter, the owner or occupant
shall be responsible for the removal thereof through procedures provided in 47
O.S. § 954A. Failure of the owner or occupant to secure removal of an abandoned
vehicle shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Owners of property within the city who reside out of the county may
provide the city with a limited power of attorney designating the city as their
agent with authority to secure removal of abandoned vehicles on their behalf.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-409 INOPERABLE, UNLICENSED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall park, store, leave or abandon an inoperable or
unlicensed motor vehicle upon public property for a period in excess of 48
hours. Failure of the owner to remove an unlicensed or inoperable vehicle from
public property within 48 hours shall constitute abandonment thereof and a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to abrogate or nullify the
authority of a police officer to impound a vehicle, whether licensed or
unlicensed, under the provisions of state statutes or §
15-1401.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-410 NOTICE TO REMOVE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Notice to remove an inoperable or unlicensed vehicle shall be given by
affixing thereto a highly visible warning that the vehicle may be impounded if
not removed within 48 hours. Such notice shall bear the date and time of its
affixing thereto and the name of the official posting the notice.
   (B)   Failure to remove a vehicle so posted within the specified time shall
be constructive evidence that the vehicle has been abandoned upon public
property.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-411 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Upon constructive evidence that a vehicle has been abandoned upon public
property, the official posting the vehicle may request the Chief of Police to
secure the impoundment of the same in accordance with procedures prescribed in
47 O.S. §§ 901 et seq. Such request shall bear a statement as to the time and
date such vehicles were posted.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-412 ACTION IN LIEU OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Where the official posting notice, in accordance with §
8-410, has reason to believe the owner of an apparently abandoned vehicle may
be a citizen of the city, he or she may, after posting the vehicle:
      (1)   Request the Chief of Police to verify registration of the vehicle;
and
      (2)   Provide notice of violation by certified mail or hand delivery to
the owner requesting removal of the vehicle within 48 hours of receipt of
notice.
   (B)   Where the owner of a vehicle fails to comply with a delivered notice,
the enforcing official may file charges for violation of this chapter in
municipal court.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
§8-413 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1274, passed 11-24-1987)
CHAPTER 5: LITTERING
Section
   
8-501   Definitions
   
8-502   Litter in public places
   
8-503   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
8-504   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
8-505   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
8-506   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
8-507   Truckloads causing litter
   
8-508   Litter in parks
   
8-509   Litter in lakes and fountains
   
8-510   Throwing or distributing commercial handbills in public places
   
8-511   Placing commercial and noncommercial handbills on vehicles
   
8-512   Depositing commercial and noncommercial handbills on uninhabited or
vacant premises
   
8-513   Prohibiting distribution of handbills on premises properly posted
   
8-514   Distributing commercial and noncommercial handbills at inhabited
private premises
   
8-515   Dropping litter from aircraft
   
8-516   Posting notice prohibited
   
8-517   Litter on occupied private property
   
8-518   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
8-519   Litter on vacant lots
   
8-520   Offensive littering
   
8-521   Political advertising on rights-of-way
   
8-522   Disposing of refuse in containers belonging to other users prohibited,
penalty
   
8-523   Penalty
§8-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or
designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT includes
helicopters and lighter than air dirigibles and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, produce, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses
incident to such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any
kind, when either of the same is held or given or takes place in connection
with the dissemination of information which is not restricted under the
ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace, safety and good order;
provided, that nothing contained in this definition shall be deemed to
authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind without license where such license
is or may be required by laws of this state or under any ordinance of this
city; or
      (4)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed
or circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of
any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   GARBAGE. Putrefied animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish, as defined herein, and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and
in addition thereto, means any periodical or current magazine regularly
published with not less than four issues per year and sold to the public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample, device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or other reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill
or newspaper.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and includes
any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging
or appurtenant to such dwelling house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrefied and nonputrefied solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrefied solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
§8-502 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the city except in public receptacles, in authorized
private receptacles for collection or in official city dumps.
§8-503 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner so as to prevent it from being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place,
or upon private property.
§8-504 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
§8-505 MERCHANTS’ DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
city shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter.
§8-506 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
§8-507 TRUCKLOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any
contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place.
   (B)   Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the
city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley
or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter
of any kind.
§8-508 LITTER IN PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city
except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
park or any street or other public place.
   (B)   Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be
carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and
properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein.
(Ord. 1349, passed 4-12-1994)
§8-509 LITTER IN LAKES AND FOUNTAINS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake,
stream, bay or other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to deposit, throw or dispose of
rubbish, garbage, litter, refuse or other trash or materials in waste or
garbage receptacles provided on city lake properties except as herein
authorized below:
      (1)   Recreational users of city lakes may dispose of materials
associated with their recreational use of the lake property;
      (2)   Officials, employees and agents of the city may dispose of
materials accumulated in the course of their duties; and
      (3)   Holders of cabin site leases may dispose of household trash,
garbage, rubbish and the like associated with their use of such cabin sites.
(Ord. 1349, passed 4-12-1994)
§8-510 THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING COMMERCIAL HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city. Nor shall
any person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public
place. Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street
or other public place within the city for any person to hand out or distribute,
without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any
person willing to accept it.
§8-511 PLACING COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any vehicle. Provided, however, that it is not unlawful in any public
place for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver
thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it.
§8-512 DEPOSITING COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS ON UNINHABITED OR
VACANT PREMISES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited
or vacant.
§8-513 PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS ON PREMISES PROPERLY POSTED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do
so, or if there is placed on the premises in a conspicuous position near the
entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: “No Trespassing,” “No Peddlers or
Agents,” “No Advertisement” or any similar notice, indicating in any manner
that the occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their
right of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left upon such
premises.
§8-514 DISTRIBUTING COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS AT INHABITED PRIVATE
PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by handing or transmitting the handbill directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or upon such private premises.
      (2)   In the case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as
provided in this chapter, a person, unless requested by anyone upon such
premises not to do so, may place or deposit such handbill on the premises so
long as the material is safeguarded or adequately secured from being blown or
drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and
except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal
law or regulations.
   (B)   The provision of this section shall not apply to the distribution of
mail by the United States, nor to newspapers (as defined herein) except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent
their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place, or upon private property.
§8-515 DROPPING LITTER FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the city
any litter, handbill or any other object.
§8-516 POSTING NOTICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or
device, calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost,
public utility pole or upon or within any public street, alley, right-of-way or
sidewalk, or any public structure or building, except as may be authorized or
required by law.
   (B)   The City Council, at its discretion, may consider requests made by
civic organizations to relax the requirements and prohibitions addressed in
division (A) above. The request must be submitted to the Council at least 30
days prior to a citywide event which will benefit the whole community. The
civic organization making said request must specify the name of the event, the
date of the event, its purpose and, if applicable, the event location.
   (C)   The verbal approval granted by the Council will be given in open
meeting requiring a simple majority vote of the legislative body. The approval
will be granted for a single event and will not be construed as a continuing
approval for any subsequent or annual event which may occur. A civic
organization shall be deemed to be an association or society of people working
together to benefit the community and its citizens. The Council shall not
consider the request of an individual or entity whose request shall be for the
benefit of a person or business. The location of placement of any notice,
poster or paper device which results from the approval of the legislative body
shall be specified at the time of approval.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to amend, alter or modify any
other section of this code.
   (E)   The requesting organization shall be responsible for removal of all
signage which was put in place as a result of the City Council approval.
(Ord. 1601, passed 6-14-2005)
§8-517 LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other
public places, or upon any private property.
§8-518 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter. Provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
§8-519 LITTER ON VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by such person or not.
§8-520 OFFENSIVE LITTERING.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of offensive littering if he or she creates
an objectionable stench or degrades from the natural cleanliness or safety of
property by intentionally:
      (1)   Discarding or depositing any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris or
other refuse upon the land of another without permission of the owner, or upon
any public way;
      (2)   Draining, or causing or permitting to be drained, sewage or the
drainage from a cesspool, septic tank, recreational or camping vehicle without
holding tank or other contaminated source, upon the land of another without
permission of the owner, or upon public way; or
      (3)   Permitting any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris or other refuse to
be thrown from a vehicle which he or she is operating.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not
limited to, roads, streets, alleys, lanes, trails, beaches, parks and all
recreational facilities operated by the state, county or a local municipality
for use by the general public.
§8-521 POLITICAL ADVERTISING ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a POLITICAL ADVERTISING SIGN is
defined as any sign, poster or placard printed, painted, made or designed for
the purpose of furthering or advertising the candidacy of any person who is or
intends to become or may be a candidate for the election to any public office,
whether such public office be in the local, state or federal government, or any
subdivision thereof.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or display
any advertising sign or advertising of any other character upon any public
utility easement or upon or within any public street, alley, right-of-way,
sidewalk, public place, public building or park.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall place, tack, nail, staple or glue
any advertising sign on any telephone, telegraph, electric, cable or street
lighting pole within this city.
   (D)   (1)   Any advertising sign erected, placed or displayed in violation
of the provisions hereof shall be a public nuisance.
      (2)   No property right shall exist in such sign erected, placed or
displayed in violation of the provisions hereof, and such sign may be removed
and destroyed by any person.
§8-522 DISPOSING OF REFUSE IN CONTAINERS BELONGING TO OTHER USERS PROHIBITED,
PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to deposit, throw or dispose of rubbish,
garbage, litter, refuse or other trash or materials in waste or garbage
receptacles provided to persons, firms or corporations paying a fee to the city
or Public Utilities Authority.
   (B)   Any individual using a trash receptacle of which he or she is not the
owner, lessor or ratepayer or named authorized user shall be guilty of an
unlawful act regardless of the location of the receptacle.
   (C)   Any individual guilty of violation of this section shall be subject to
the provisions of §
8-523.
(Ord. 1352, passed 7-26-1994)
§8-523 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
CHAPTER 6: TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
Section
   
8-601   Definitions
   
8-602   Use on city owned property and buildings is prohibited
   
8-603   Penalty
§8-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY OWNED BUILDING. Any building or real property owned or operated by the
city, including the parking lot associated therewith.
   CITY OWNED PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Any parcel of open land within the city
limits which is owned by the city and used for recreational activities,
including all pools, splash-pads, walking and bicycle trails, ball fields,
parks, skate parks, other fields or facilities used for sporting events, or any
parkland that is equipped with play structures such as swings, climbing
structures, water features or the like.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana that is grown, processed, dispensed, tested or
possessed for a medical purpose, and includes medical marijuana concentrate, or
any other medical marijuana product.
   TOBACCO USE. Any use of tobacco in any form, including, but not limited to,
chewing, dipping, smoking or burning.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Noncombustible products that may or may not contain nicotine,
that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit or other
mechanism, regardless of shape or size, and that can be used to produce a vapor
in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCTS shall include any vapor cartridge
or other container with or without nicotine or other form that is intended to
be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe or similar product or device and any vapor cartridge or other
container of a solution that may or may not contain nicotine and that is
intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo or electronic device.
(Ord. 1775, passed 4-10-2018; Ord. 1814, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-602 USE ON CITY OWNED PROPERTY AND BUILDINGS IS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance and
dangerous to public health, as well as an unhealthy example for children. As
such, the possession of lighted tobacco in any form is prohibited when such
possession is on or in any city owned parks and playgrounds, or city owned
building.
   (B)   In addition to the prohibitions set forth in division (A) above, all
buildings and real property owned or operated by the city shall be designated
as both tobacco-free and vapor-free. The use of tobacco in any form in said
buildings or on such real property is prohibited. Furthermore, the use of vapor
products in said buildings or on such real property is also prohibited.
   (C)   The use of lighted medical marijuana and/or the use of medical
marijuana vapor products is prohibited when such use is on or in any city owned
parks and playgrounds, or city owned building.
(Ord. 1775, passed 4-10-2018; Ord. 1814, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-603 PENALTY.
   Any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of
$50.
(Ord. 1775, passed 4-10-2018)
CHAPTER 7: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
Article A. Medical Marijuana
   
8-701   Legislative intent and purpose
   
8-702   State Department of Health Regulations adopted by reference
   
8-703   State statutes adopted by reference
Article B. Commercial Medical Marijuana Business Permit
   
8-710   Medical marijuana business permit required
   
8-711   Building, fire and life safety requirements
Article C. General Provisions
   
8-720   Defense to criminal prosecutions
   
8-721   Inspections
   
8-722   Forfeiture of certificate of occupancy
   
8-723   Locations and zoning of medical marijuana businesses
   
8-724   Commercial medical marijuana businesses prohibited
   
8-725   Application requirements
   
8-726   Medical marijuana business permit fees
   
8-727   Inspection
   
8-728   Application processing
   
8-729   Persons prohibited as permittees
Article D. Requirements Related to the Operation of Medical Marijuana
Businesses
   
8-740   On-site use prohibited
   
8-741   Display of city medical marijuana business permit required
   
8-742   Business conducted within building
   
8-743   Use of metals, butane, propane or other flammable products
   
8-744   Revocation of city medical marijuana business permit upon denial or
revocation of state license or applicable federal prohibition
   
8-745   Revocable privilege
   
8-746   Prohibited acts
   
8-747   Suspension or revocation of permit; imposition of fines
   
8-748   Term of permit: renewals, expiration of permit
ARTICLE A. MEDICAL MARIJUANA
§8-701 LEGISLATIVE INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent of this chapter is to ensure the health and safety of the
citizens of the city, and all Oklahomans, and provide reasonable and orderly
regulation of medical marijuana as authorized by the passage of State Question
788. Only the powers enumerated under this chapter shall be proper. Any power
not specifically enumerated is prohibited.
   (A)   Any person, persons or entity violating any provisions of this
article, either by doing anything which is prohibited or by failing to do
anything which is commanded, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500, plus court
costs. Each separate violation of this article shall constitute a separate
offense. Where a lesser fine is mandated by state law, then the lesser amount
of fine shall be applicable.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to apply to all medical marijuana for
personal use or any medical marijuana business permitted under the State
Question 788. The chapter is intended to provide regulations to limit the
impact that medical marijuana cultivation and production will have on the
health, safety and community resources of the city.
   (C)   This chapter is to be construed to protect the public over medical
marijuana business interests. Operation of a medical marijuana business in the
city is a revocable privilege and not a right in the city. There is no property
right for an individual or business to have medical marijuana in the city.
   (D)   Medical marijuana is a regulated industry in the city, and all medical
marijuana business owners, operators and employees are assumed to be fully
aware of the applicable law and regulations.
   (E)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents and
medical marijuana patients of the city by prescribing the manner medical
marijuana businesses are to be conducted within the city;
      (2)   Provide for a means of cultivation, production and distribution of
medical marijuana to patients who quality to obtain, possess and use marijuana
for medical purposes under the State Question 788;
      (3)   Protect public health and safety through reasonable limitations on
business operations as they relate to noise, air and water quality, food
safety, neighborhood and patient safety, security for the business and its
personnel and other health and safety concerns;
      (4)   Impose fees to cover the cost to the city of permitting medical
marijuana businesses in an amount sufficient for the city to recover its costs
of the permitting program;
      (5)   Adopt a mechanism for monitoring compliance with the provisions of
this chapter; and
      (6)   Issue medical marijuana business permits only to individuals and
entities that have demonstrated an intent and ability to comply with this
chapter without monitoring by city officials.
   (F)   In order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents, and the medical marijuana patients, of the city and to the extent
permitted by law, it is the intent of the city that
Chapter 7 of Part 8 of this code shall have retroactive application.
   (G)   Any ordinance now in effect that conflicts with any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be invalid and to no effect insofar as it
shall conflict with the provisions herein contained.
   (H)   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable,
and if any section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this article is for any
reason held invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdictions,
such decision shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause
hereof.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-702 STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   State Department of Health Regulations, Title 310, Chapter 681, Medical
Marijuana Control Program, as it may from time to time be amended, is adopted
by reference and is made a part of the ordinances of the city, as if fully set
forth in this code. The provisions of these regulations shall take effect and
be controlling within the city limits so that a violation of the provisions of
the regulations will be a violation of this code.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-703 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   63 O.S. §§ 420 through 430, relating to medical marijuana, the State
Medical Marijuana and Patient Protection Act, being 63 O.S. §§ 427.1 et seq.,
and the State Medical Marijuana Waste Management Act, being 63 O.S. §§ 428 et
seq., as it may from time to time be amended, is adopted by reference and is
made a part of the ordinances of the city, as if fully set forth in this code.
   (B)   The provisions of these regulations shall take effect and be
controlling within the city limits so that a violation of the provisions of the
regulations will be a violation of this code.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS PERMIT
§8-710 MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons or other business entity
to operate a commercial medical marijuana business within the corporate limits
of the city without first having obtained a medical marijuana business permit
as provided herein.
   (B)   The medical marijuana business permit requirement set forth in this
chapter shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing and
permitting requirements imposed by any other federal, state or local law,
including, by way of example, any applicable building permit or certificate of
occupancy.
   (C)   A medical marijuana business permit does not provide nor create an
exception, defense or immunity to any person with regard to any potential
criminal liability the person may have for the production, distribution or
possession of marijuana.
   (D)   A separate medical marijuana business permit shall be required for
each premises from which a commercial medical marijuana business is operated.
Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no two or more different
commercial medical marijuana businesses may be treated as one premises.
   (E)   A medical marijuana business permit that has been issued by the city,
Department of Community Development for medical marijuana is nontransferable. A
permit is not transferable or assignable, including, without limitation, not
transferable or assignable to a different location, to a different type of
business, or to a different owner or permittee. A permit is valid only for the
owner named thereon, the type of business disclosed on the application for the
permit and the location for which the permit is issued. The named permittee of
a commercial medical marijuana business are only those persons disclosed in the
application or subsequently disclosed to the city in accordance with this
chapter. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to medical
marijuana businesses operating under a valid certificate of authority pursuant
to OMMA 442:10-1, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   On the date of these ordinances being enacted, all existing medical
marijuana businesses located within the corporate limits of the city shall be
granted 60 days after enactment to obtain a medical marijuana business permit
from the city. The 60-day grace period shall not apply to any new medical
marijuana business formed from and after the date of enactment.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-711 BUILDING, FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   All commercial medical marijuana facilities shall comply with the building,
fire and life safety codes for the city, in addition to any state building,
fire and life safety codes, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
ARTICLE C. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§8-720 DEFENSE TO CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall not provide an
exception, immunity or defense to criminal prosecution under any applicable
law, except in the municipal court for the city.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-721 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Every commercial medical marijuana business shall permit
the local permitting authority, and any agent of the local permitting
authority, or anyone authorized, to inspect the premises of the business
pursuant to the city code, or State Question 788, and any of the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Costs of inspection and clean-up. In the event the city incurs costs
in the inspection, clean-up, surrender of plants or any other requirements to
remove medical marijuana of any medical marijuana business, or any person
cultivating, producing, distributing or possessing marijuana, the business and
responsible person shall reimburse the city for all actual costs incurred by
the city for such inspection or clean-up, including administrative fees.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-722 FORFEITURE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   In the event that a commercial medical marijuana business does not commence
operations within 30 days of issuance of a city medical marijuana business
permit, the business permit shall be deemed forfeited, and the business may not
commence operations.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-723 LOCATIONS AND ZONING OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Fixed location.
      (1)   A fixed location is required for any and all medical marijuana
businesses. Mobile medical marijuana sales of all types are prohibited within
the city; this includes, but is not limited to, trailers, recreational vehicles
and trucks.
      (2)   With the exception of a commercial grower, it shall be unlawful to
operate a medical marijuana business outside of an enclosed, fixed building.
All city medical marijuana business permits shall be issued only for a specific
fixed location within an enclosed building.
   (B)   Permitted use in zoning district. A city medical marijuana business
permit for a commercial medical marijuana business may be issued only in the
following locations:
      (1)   A medical marijuana dispensary shall only be located within one of
the following zoning classifications:
         (a)   C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District;
         (b)   C-2 Office Commercial District;
         (c)   C-3 Planned Shopping Center District; and
         (d)   C-4 General Commercial District.
      (2)   Commercial medical marijuana growing facilities shall only be
located within one of the following zoning classifications:
         (a)   An organic greenhouse utilizing natural light, with no gases or
chemicals, and single stack of plants:
            1.   A-1 or A-2 Agricultural District;
            2.   C-4 General Commercial District;
            3.   I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District;
            4.   I-2 Light Industrial District; and
            5.   1-3 General Industrial District.
         (b)   A medical marijuana growing facility utilizing artificial light,
fertilizer and pesticides, not exceeding maximum allowable quantity, and a
single stack of plants:
            1.   A-1 Agricultural District;
            2.   I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District;
            3.   I-2 Light Industrial District; and
            4.   I-3 General Industrial District.
         (c)   A medical marijuana growing facility utilizing artificial light
and flammable gas or flammable liquids, or industrial alcohol, or utilizing
fertilizer or pesticides which exceed maximum allowable quantity, or where
plants are double stacked: I-3 General Industrial District.
      (3)   Commercial medical marijuana processing facilities shall only be
located within one of the following zoning districts:
         (a)   A medical marijuana processor which engages in trimming and
packing, and/or pre-rolls medical marijuana, and/or engages in baking, and/or
utilizes water or ice:
            1.   C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District;
            2.   C-2 Office Commercial District;
            3.   C-3 Planned Shopping Center District;
            4.   C-4 General Commercial District;
            5.   I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District;
            6.   I-2 Light Industrial District; and
            7.   I-3 General Industrial District.
         (b)   A medical marijuana processor which engages in low hazard
extraction utilizing CO2:
            1.   I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District;
            2.   I-2 Light Industrial District; and
            3.   I-3 General Industrial District.
         (c)   A medical marijuana processor which engages in high hazard
extraction utilizing flammable gas or flammable liquids, or industrial alcohol:
I-3 General Industrial District.
      (4)   Commercial medical marijuana transport facilities shall only be
located within one of the following zoning districts:
         (a)   C-2, C-3, C-4 General Commercial District;
         (b)   I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District;
         (c)   I-2 Light Industrial District; and
         (d)   I-3 General Industrial District.
      (5)   A commercial medical marijuana laboratory shall only be located
within one of the following zoning districts:
         (a)   A commercial medical marijuana laboratory which utilizes
chemicals not exceeding the maximum allowable quantity:
            1.   C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District;
            2.   C-2 Office Commercial District;
            3.   C-3 Planned Shopping Center District;
            4.   C-4 General Commercial District;
            5.   I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District;
            6.   I-2 Light Industrial District; and
            7.   I-3 General Industrial District.
         (b)   A commercial medical marijuana laboratory which utilizes
chemicals exceeding the maximum allowable quantity: I-3 General Industrial
District.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-724 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a commercial medical marijuana business in a
building which contains a residence, or within a dwelling unit within any
zoning district, or within a residential zoning district, or within a mixed-use
development that includes a residence.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-725 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a city medical marijuana business permit for
a commercial medical marijuana business shall be made to the city on forms
provided by the Department of Community Development for that purpose.
      (2)   The applicant shall use the application to demonstrate its
compliance with this chapter and any other applicable law, rule or regulation.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The State Medical Marijuana Authority business license number if
business permit applicant is completing initial application (not renewal) a
license number is not required;
      (2)   Contact information for the owner or owners of the medical
marijuana business in whose name the permit is proposed to be issued:
         (a)   If an owner is a corporation, the name and address of any
officer, the director of the corporation and the service agent;
         (b)   If an owner is a partnership, association or company, the name
and address of any person holding an interest therein and the managing members.
If a managing member is an entity rather than an individual, the same
disclosure shall be required for each entity with an ownership interest until a
managing member that is a natural person is identified; and
         (c)   If an owner is not a natural person, the organizational
documents for all entities identified in the application, identification of the
natural person that is authorized to speak for the entity and contact
information for that person.
      (3)   An operating plan for the proposed medical marijuana business,
including the following information:
         (a)   A description of the products and services to be provided by the
medical marijuana business; and
         (b)   A dimensioned floor plan, clearly labeled, showing:
            1.   The layout of the structure, to include all mechanical,
electrical, plumbing, fire and life safety, as well as the floor plan in which
the medical marijuana business is to be located; and
            2.   Areas where any services other than the distribution of
medical marijuana are proposed to occur in the premises.
      (4)   For cultivation facilities, a plan that specifies the methods to be
used to prevent the growth of harmful mold, humidity and other related
problems;
      (5)   A lighting plan showing the lighting outside of the medical
marijuana business for security purposes and compliance with applicable city
requirements;
      (6)   A fire separation and/or fire suppression plan that meets city and
state fire codes; and
      (7)   A description of all toxic, flammable or other materials regulated
by a federal, state or local government that would have authority over the
business if it was not a marijuana business, that will be used or kept at the
medical marijuana business, the location of such materials and how such
materials will be stored.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-726 MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Medical marijuana dispensaries. The permit fee for medical marijuana
dispensaries is $500, and the annual renewal fee will be $250 if application is
made with the city 45 days prior to permit expiration.
   (B)   Commercial medical marijuana growing facilities.
      (1)   For an organic greenhouse, the permit fee is $1,000, and the annual
renewal fee will be $500 if application is made with the city 45 days prior to
permit expiration.
      (2)   For a medical marijuana growing facility utilizing artificial
light, fertilizer and pesticides, not exceeding maximum allowable quantity, and
a single stack of plants, the permit fee is $1,500, and the annual renewal fee
will be $750 if application is made with the city 45 days prior to permit
expiration.
      (3)   For a medical marijuana growing facility utilizing artificial light
and flammable gas or flammable liquids, or industrial alcohol, or utilizing
fertilizer or pesticides which exceed maximum allowable quantity, or where
plants are double stacked, the permit fee is $2,500, and the annual renewal fee
will be $1,250 if application is made with the city 45 days prior to permit
expiration.
   (C)   Commercial medical marijuana processing facilities. For a medical
marijuana processor which engages in trimming and packing, and/or pre-rolls
medical marijuana, and/or engages in baking, and/or utilizes water or ice, the
permit fee is $750, and the annual renewal fee will be $375 if application is
made with the city 45 days prior to permit expiration. For a medical marijuana
processor which engages in low hazard extraction, utilizing CO2, the permit fee
is $1,000, and the annual renewal fee will be $500 if application is made with
the city 45 days prior to permit expiration. For a medical marijuana processor
which engages in high hazard extraction utilizing flammable gas or flammable
liquids, or industrial alcohol, the permit fee is $2,500, and the annual
renewal fee will be $1,250 if application is made with the city 45 days prior
to permit expiration.
   (D)   Commercial medical marijuana transport facilities. The permit fee for
commercial medical marijuana transport facilities is $500, and the annual
renewal fee will be $250 if application is made with the city 45 days prior to
permit expiration.
   (E)   Commercial medical marijuana laboratory. For a commercial medical
marijuana laboratory which utilizes chemicals not exceeding the maximum
allowable quantity, the permit fee is $750, and the annual renewal fee will be
$375 if application is made with the city 45 days prior to permit expiration.
For a commercial medical marijuana laboratory which utilizes chemicals
exceeding the maximum allowable quantity, the permit fee is $2,500, and the
annual renewal fee will be $1,250 if application is made with the city 45 days
prior to permit expiration.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-727 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An inspection of the proposed medical marijuana business as required
by the State Medical Marijuana Authority for a certificate of compliance, as
well as for a city certificate of occupancy (which include inspections for
plumbing, electric, mechanical, fire and life safety), shall be required prior
to issuance of a city medical marijuana business permit. Such inspection shall
occur after the premises are ready for operation, but prior to the stocking of
the business with any medical marijuana, and prior to the opening of the
business to any patients or the public (for initial applicants).
   (B)   The inspection is to verity that the business facilities are
constructed and can be operated in accordance with the application submitted
and the applicable requirements of the code and any other applicable law, rule
or regulation.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-728 APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   The processing of the application by the Department of Community Development
is not complete until the Department has:
   (A)   Determined the application is complete;
   (B)   Determined the medical marijuana business is prepared and able to
operate in compliance with all applicable laws;
   (C)   Conducted an inspection of the business; and
   (D)   Prepared the documentation necessary to support the decision made by
the Department on the application.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-729 PERSONS PROHIBITED AS PERMITTEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any of the following persons to have an ownership
or a financial interest in a medical marijuana business, and no city medical
marijuana business permit provided by this chapter shall be issued to or held
by, and no medical marijuana business shall be managed by any person who
operates or manages a medical marijuana business contrary to the provisions of
this chapter, any other applicable law, rule or regulation or conditions
imposed on land use or city medical marijuana business permit approvals, or
contrary to the terms of the plans submitted with the city medical marijuana
business permit application, as such plans may be amended as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
ARTICLE D. REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO THE OPERATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA
BUSINESSES
§8-740 ON-SITE USE PROHIBITED.
   No marijuana shall be smoked, eaten or otherwise consumed or ingested within
the medical marijuana business, as provided for in OMMA 442:10-5-6 as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-741 DISPLAY OF CITY MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A valid city medical marijuana business permit shall be conspicuously posted
in the business.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-742 BUSINESS CONDUCTED WITHIN BUILDING.
   Any and all cultivation, production, distribution, possession, storage,
display, sales or other distribution of marijuana shall not be visible from the
exterior of the business.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-743 USE OF METALS, BUTANE, PROPANE OR OTHER FLAMMABLE PRODUCTS.
   No medical marijuana business may use metals, butane, propane or other
flammable product, or produce flammable vapors, to process marijuana unless the
process used and the premises are verified as safe and in compliance with all
applicable zoning, fire and life safety codes.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-744 REVOCATION OF CITY MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS PERMIT UPON DENIAL OR
REVOCATION OF STATE LICENSE OR APPLICABLE FEDERAL PROHIBITION.
   If the state prohibits the cultivation, production, possession or other
distribution of marijuana through medical marijuana businesses, or if a medical
marijuana business permit is denied a commercial medical marijuana business
permit or has such permit revoked, or if a court of competent jurisdiction
determines that the federal government’s prohibition of the cultivation,
production, possession or other distribution of marijuana through medical
marijuana businesses supersedes state law, any city medical marijuana business
permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to be immediately
revoked by operation of law, with no ground for appeal or other redress on
behalf of the permittee.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-745 REVOCABLE PRIVILEGE.
   A city medical marijuana business permit is a revocable privilege, and no
applicant therefor or holder thereof shall be deemed to have acquired any
property interest therein.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-746 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts:
   (A)   Cultivate, distribute or produce medical marijuana in plain view of or
in a place open to the general public;
   (B)   Smoke, use or ingest any medical marijuana on the premises of a
commercial medical marijuana business;
   (C)   Operate or be in physical control of any commercial medical marijuana
business, liquor establishment, vehicle, aircraft or motorboat while in a state
of intoxication;
   (D)   Possess medical marijuana that is not in a child-resistant package, as
defined by the State Medical Marijuana Authority, in a location where the
possessor is not authorized to possess or consume medical marijuana;
   (E)   Possess any form of medical marijuana in an amount exceeding the
limitations provided for in 63 O.S. § 420;
   (F)   Obtain medical marijuana from a person or entity that is not permitted
by the State Medical Marijuana Authority as a commercial medical marijuana
business;
   (G)   Possess or operate a commercial medical marijuana business in
violation of this chapter;
   (H)   Produce, distribute or possess more medical marijuana than allowed in
this chapter or than disclosed in the application to the state for a medical
marijuana business permit or other applicable law;
   (I)   Distribute medical marijuana without a commercial medical marijuana
business permit;
   (J)   Possess medical marijuana, own or manage a medical marijuana business,
or own or manage a building with a medical marijuana business, where there is
possession of medical marijuana by a person who is not a patient, caregiver or
a permittee of a medical marijuana business;
   (K)   Possess or operate a medical marijuana business in a location or in a
manner for which a medical marijuana business permit is prohibited by the terms
of this chapter;
   (L)   Operate a medical marijuana business without a commercial medical
marijuana business permit from the city;
   (M)   Operate a medical marijuana business in a manner that is not
consistent with the items disclosed in the application for the medical
marijuana business, or is in violation of any plan made part of the permit
application;
   (N)   Cultivate, manufacture, distribute or possess any medical marijuana at
a location without a commercial medical marijuana business permit prior to
passing the inspection required by this chapter;
   (O)   Make any changes, or for the permittee to allow any changes, to the
items included in the plans submitted with the permit application and approved
by the Department of Community Development, or the individuals identified in
the application, without prior approval of the Department of Community
Development;
   (P)   Use or attempt to use or display a medical marijuana business permit
at a different location or for a different business entity than the location
and business entity disclosed on the application for the issued permit;
   (Q)   Dispose of medical marijuana or any by-product of medical marijuana
containing marijuana in a manner contrary to this chapter;
   (R)   Deliver or transport medical marijuana between medical marijuana
businesses except in strict compliance with this chapter;
   (S)   Violate any provision of this code, or permit any other person to
violate any provision of this code, or any condition of an approval granted
pursuant to this code, or any law, rule or regulation applicable to the use of
medical marijuana or the operation of a medical marijuana business; and/or
   (T)   Lease any property to a medical marijuana business that has marijuana
on the property without a medical marijuana business permit that has been
issued by the Department of Community Development.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-747 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; IMPOSITION OF FINES.
   (A)   A medical marijuana business permit may be suspended or revoked for
any of the following violations:
      (1)   Conviction of the business, a permittee or any owner, or primary
caregiver of any violation of this chapter or any other law, rule or regulation
applicable to the use of medical marijuana or operation of a medical marijuana
business;
      (2)   Misrepresentation or omission of any material fact, or false or
misleading information, on the application or any amendment thereto, or any
other information provided to the city related to the medical marijuana
business;
      (3)   Violation of any law by which, if occurring prior to submittal of
the application, could have been cause for denial of the permit application;
and/or
      (4)   Distribution of medical marijuana, including, without limitation,
transporting marijuana, in violation of this chapter or any other applicable
law, rule or regulation.
   (B)   In the event a business or permittee is charged with violation of any
law, upon which a final judgment would be grounds for suspension or revocation
of the permit, the city may suspend the permit pending the resolution of the
alleged violation.
   (C)   Fines for violations of this chapter may be imposed by the city
against the person or any permittee up to $500 per person and any permittee per
occurrence. Any person or permittee subjected to fines, revocation or
suspension of his, her or their permit shall be entitled to an administrative
hearing with the City Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   (1)   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or order
of the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the
city to the district court by filing notice of appeal with the City Clerk and
with the Board of Adjustment within ten days from the filing of the decision of
the Board of Adjustment which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal.
      (2)   Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the Board
of Adjustment shall forthwith transmit to the court clerk of the county the
original or certified copy of all the papers constituting the record in the
case, together with the order, decision or ruling of the Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   If the city revokes a permit, the business may not move any marijuana
from the premises except under the supervision of the City Police Department.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
§8-748 TERM OF PERMIT: RENEWALS, EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Term of permit. A commercial medical marijuana business permit shall
be valid for one year. The permit shall expire on the last day of the month in
which the permit is issued of the year following issuance or renewal of the
permit.
   (B)   Renewal of permit. The permittee shall apply for renewal of the
commercial medical marijuana business permit at least 45 days before the
expiration of the permit. The permittee shall apply for renewal using forms
provided by the Department of Community Development.
      (1)   In the event any person who has an interest as described in the
disclosures made to the city pursuant to this chapter, or any agent as defined
herein, or employee has been charged with or accused of violations of any law
since such disclosure, the renewal application shall include the name of the
violator, the date of the violation, the court and case number where the
violation was filed and the disposition of the violation with the renewal
application.
      (2)   In the event the business permit has been suspended or revoked or a
permittee has received any notice of violation of any law that would impact
renewal, the renewal application shall include a copy of the notice, suspension
or revocation.
      (3)   The renewal application shall include verification that the
business has a valid state license and the state license is in good standing.
      (4)   The Department of Community Development shall not accept renewal
applications after the expiration of the permit, but instead shall require the
applicant to file a new permit application.
      (5)   In the event there have been allegations of violations of this code
by any of the permittees or the business submitting a renewal application, the
city may hold a hearing prior to approving the renewal application. The hearing
shall be to determine whether the application and proposed permittees comply
with this chapter and whether the operation of the business has been in
compliance with this code. If the city does not hold a hearing and the
application and the permittees do not meet the requirements of this chapter, or
the business has been operated in the past in violation of this code, the
renewal application may be denied or issued with conditions, and the decision
shall be final.
(Ord. 1813, passed 10-27-2020)
PART 9: LICENSING AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
1.    OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX GENERALLY
   
2.    PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND CONTRIBUTION SOLICITORS
   
3.    PAWNBROKERS
   
4.    JUNK DEALERS
   
5.    RECREATION CENTERS
   
6.    COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
   
7.    PRIVATE SECURITY OFFICERS
   
8.    PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS
   
9.    CITY AMBULANCE SERVICE
   
10.    GARAGE SALES
   
11.    PENALTY
   
12.    DONATION BOXES
CHAPTER 1: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX GENERALLY
Section
   
9-101   License tax levied on certain persons
§9-101 LICENSE TAX LEVIED ON CERTAIN PERSONS.
   A license tax is hereby levied on every person, firm, association or
corporation engaging in, exercising or pursuing any of the following
businesses, professions, trades, occupations or privileges in this city, in
such amounts as may be set by the City Council by motion or resolution:
   (A)   Book agents and canvassers taking orders of subscriptions;
   (B)   Junk dealers;
   (C)   Pawnbrokers;
   (D)   Auctioneers and vendors of medicine and other goods, wares or
merchandise upon the streets:
      (1)   Within the fire limits, as defined; or
      (2)   Outside fire limits.
   (E)   Electrical, plumbing, mechanical or building contractors; and
   (F)   House movers, only when in possession of a valid permit from the city
and appropriate state license.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-107
CHAPTER 2: PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND CONTRIBUTION SOLICITORS
Section
   
9-201   Permit and license required
   
9-202   Definitions
   
9-203   Exceptions
   
9-204   Application, transient merchant’s license
   
9-205   Application, peddler’s license
   
9-206   Application, contribution solicitation registration
   
9-207   Investigation, approval or disapproval
   
9-208   License fees
   
9-209   Bond for license
   
9-210   Service of process
   
9-211   Period of validity
   
9-212   Transfer
   
9-213   Prohibited acts
§9-201 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddler,
transient merchant or contribution solicitor as defined in §
9-202, within the corporate limits of the city, without first obtaining a
permit and license therefor or completing registration therefor as provided
therein.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-107
§9-202 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRIBUTION SOLICITOR. Any person, group or organization which attempts, by
request or plea, to obtain money from a person, not a member of the same group
or organization for any cause or purpose when made at other than established
place of meetings, business, service or activity of the group or organization.
   PEDDLER. Door to door, street to street, place to place or temporary vendors
of sales or services without a fixed, determined and permanent location in the
city, at which he or she transacts his or her business, carries on his or her
occupation or practices his or her profession, including vendors who do not
sell from stock but exhibit samples only for the purpose of securing orders for
future delivery of sales or services.
   PERSON. Any person, firm or corporation, association, club, co-partnership
or society or any other organization.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Includes an itinerant merchant, itinerant vendor, hawker
or huckster and is defined as any person, firm or corporation whether as owner,
agent, consignee or employee whether a resident of the city or not who engages
in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares or merchandise
within the city and who in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure or shop for the exhibition and sale of such
goods, wares and merchandise, including a person, firm or corporation that,
while occupying a temporary location does not sell from stock, but exhibits
samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery.
§9-203 EXCEPTIONS.
   The regulations and licensing requirements of this chapter shall not apply
to:
   (A)   Any sales under court order;
   (B)   A bona fide auction sale;
   (C)   Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or the like who
exclusively or primarily sell to retailers or solicit orders for future
delivery from retailers;
   (D)   The sale of farm, garden, artistic or hobby products by the person
producing or creating the same;
   (E)   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person
engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper;
   (F)   Sales of items at less than $1.50 per item;
   (G)   Contribution solicitation where the person being solicited to
contribute personally knows the identity of the persons soliciting the
contribution or the name of the group or organization he or she represents and
the nature of the services performed or offered by the group or organization;
   (H)   The seasonal sale of Christmas trees; and
   (I)   The occasional sale of admission by school students to a function of
their school.
(Ord. 1431, passed 3-25-1997)
§9-204 APPLICATION, TRANSIENT MERCHANT’S LICENSE.
   Applicants for licenses for transient merchants shall file a written
application signed by the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a
partnership and by a corporation officer if a corporation, with the City
Treasurer showing:
   (A)   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated;
   (B)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business and the length of time during which it is proposed that
the business shall be conducted;
   (C)   Place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within six months next preceding the date of the application where
the applicant has conducted a transient business; and
   (D)   A statement of the character of the goods, wares or merchandise to be
sold or offered for sale, by the applicant in the city, whether the same are
intended to be sold from stock in possession or from stock in possession and by
sample; such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having management or supervision of applicant’s business
or the method or plan of doing business as the City Treasurer may deem proper
to fulfill the purpose of this chapter in the protection of the public good.
§9-205 APPLICATION, PEDDLER’S LICENSE.
   Applicants for a peddler’s license under this chapter, whether a person,
firm or corporation, shall file with the City Treasurer a written application
signed by the applicant, if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or
by the president if a corporation, showing:
   (A)   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons, the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated;
   (B)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business and the length of time during which it is proposed that
the business shall be conducted;
   (C)   Place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within six months next preceding the date of the application where
the applicant has conducted a transient business; and
   (D)   A statement of the character of the goods, wares or merchandise to be
sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city, whether the same are
intended to be sold from stock in possession or from stock in possession and by
sample, such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having management or supervision of applicant’s business
or the method or plan of doing business as the City Treasurer may deem proper
to fulfill the purpose of this chapter in the protection of the public good.
§9-206 APPLICATION, CONTRIBUTION SOLICITATION REGISTRATION.
   A fraternal, religious, veteran or other nonprofit organization not covered
by 18 O.S. § 552.4 may apply for registration as a contribution solicitor by
filing with the city a written application signed by an authorized
representative of such group, showing:
   (A)   The name of the organization, its purpose, its officers and directors,
period of solicitation and solicitor’s form of remuneration; and
   (B)   The applicant’s certification that the group is one of the persons or
organizations exempt from the licensing requirements of the State Solicitation
of Charitable Contributions Act, 18 O.S. §§ 552.1 through 552.16.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 18 O.S. §§ 552.1 et seq.
§9-207 INVESTIGATION, APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   All applicants for licensing or registration shall be immediately
referred to the City Treasurer and by him or her or other persons acting in his
or her stead, investigated as to the truth thereof. The City Treasurer shall
have ten business days within which to investigate and take action thereon.
   (B)   If the City Treasurer finds no past history of the applicant
indicating violations of this section, and that the application is properly
made and truthful, he or she shall forthwith advise the applicant. The City
Treasurer shall issue a license, upon payment of the fee therefor, and the
filing of the required bond to the approved applicant, and shall approve the
completion of registration by a contribution solicitor.
   (C)   In all matters of denial by the City Treasurer of the license or
registration, the applicant shall be forthwith advised thereof and the
application shall be referred to the Council and considered by it at its next
regular meeting. The applicant shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard at
such meeting.
§9-208 LICENSE FEES.
   Fees for licenses granted herein shall be as set by the Council from time to
time by motion or resolution:
   (A)   Transient merchant’s license: annual and per day;
   (B)   Peddler’s license: annual or per day.
§9-209 BOND FOR LICENSE.
   Before any license as provided by this chapter shall be issued, such
applicant shall file with the city a bond running to the city as follows:
   (A)   A person engaging in business as a transient merchant, a bond in the
sum of $1,000 secured by the applicant, as principal and two sureties upon whom
service of process may be made in the state;
   (B)   A person engaging in business as a peddler, a bond in the sum of
$1,000 secured by the applicant, as principal and two sureties upon whom
service of process may be made in the state; and
   (C)   (1)   All such bonds shall be approved by the City Attorney and
conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of
the ordinances of the city, and the statutes of the state, regulating and
concerning the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and will pay all judgments
rendered against the applicant for any violation of the ordinance or statutes
or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered
against him or her by any person or persons for damage growing out of any
misrepresentation or deception practiced by any person transacting such
business with such applicant, whether such misrepresentation or deception were
made or practiced by the owners or by their service, agents or employees,
either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any
character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares
and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
      (2)   Any action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to
the use of the aggrieved person.
§9-210 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Before any license for a transient merchant or peddler as herein provided,
shall be issued, such applicant shall file with the city an instrument
nominating and appointing the City Treasurer, his or her true and lawful agent
with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for
and on behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or
arising out of the business transaction under the license and the bond given as
required by this chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond
or for any breach thereof, which the instrument shall also contain recitals to
the effect that the applicant for the license consents and agrees to service of
any notices or process applying for the license under this chapter, according
to the laws of the state or any other state and waiving all claims or right of
error by reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service.
Immediately upon service of process upon the City Treasurer, the City Treasurer
shall send to the licensee at his or her last known address, by registered
mail, a copy of the notice.
§9-211 PERIOD OF VALIDITY.
   Licenses granted pursuant hereto shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of issuance or approval.
§9-212 TRANSFER.
   No license shall be transferred without the consent of the City Manager as
evidenced by an endorsement on the face of the license by the City Treasurer
showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer.
§9-213 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any transient merchant, peddler or contribution
solicitor to engage in such business or activity for an unlawful business or
organizational purpose or activity.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any transient merchant, peddler or contribution
solicitor to practice harassment, nuisance, theft, deceit or menacing,
troublesome or otherwise unlawful activities during the course of such business
or activities.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any peddler or contribution solicitor to enter or
attempt to gain entrance on premises where a sign is posted with the words
“Peddlers and Solicitors Prohibited” or “Solicitors Prohibited.”
   (D)   It is unlawful for any peddler or contribution solicitor to refuse to
leave any premises when requested by the owner, lessee or person in charge or
possession thereof.
CHAPTER 3: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
9-301   Definition
   
9-302   License required
   
9-303   Bond; conditions
   
9-304   Pawnbroker’s register; contents; how kept
   
9-305   Duty of pawnbroker to report to police
   
9-306   Register open to inspection
   
9-307   Receiving certain property forbidden
   
9-308   Selling pledge before default
§9-301 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property, or
who deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the same
back again at a stipulated price, or who makes a public display of his or her
business by a sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business, such
as three yellow or gilt balls.
§9-302 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry on or engage in the business of a pawnbroker in the
city without first having obtained a license therefor in the city. The license
shall conform to those now provided or which may hereafter be provided by this
chapter.
§9-303 BOND; CONDITIONS.
   Every person hereafter applying for a license to engage in or carry on the
business of pawnbroker shall, before such license is issued to him or her,
enter into a bond with the city, with approved sureties, in the penal sum of
$1,000, conditioned that the applicant will strictly and faithfully observe all
ordinances, regulations and requirements of the city relating to pawnbrokers or
their businesses, and will pay all costs, fines and penalties incurred on the
account of his or her failure or neglect in that behalf, and will pay all
damages resulting to any person by reason of his or her wrongfully taking,
purchasing or receiving in pledge or on deposit any stolen property or the
property of any minor, which bond shall be filed with the City Treasurer and
may be sued upon by any person damaged, as aforesaid, in the name of the city,
for the use of such person, but in no event shall the city be liable for the
cost of such suit.
§9-304 PAWNBROKER’S REGISTER; CONTENTS; HOW KEPT.
   Every pawnbroker shall keep at his or her place of business a register in
which he or she shall enter in writing a minute description of all property
taken, purchased or received by him or her, including any number that may be in
or upon any article, together with the time, name and place of residence,
including street and number if within the city, of the person leaving the
property, also the amount loaned, interest charged and the time that the loan
falls due, which registry shall be kept clean and legible. He or she shall make
such entry immediately after the receipt or purchase of such property. Each
entry shall be made in ink and shall not in any manner be obliterated or
erased. He or she shall give a plainly written or printed ticket, having upon
it a full and complete copy of all entries required by ordinance to be kept in
such registry to the person leaving such property.
§9-305 DUTY OF PAWNBROKER TO REPORT TO POLICE.
   It is the duty of every pawnbroker to make out and deliver to the Chief of
Police, whenever required, a legible and correct copy from the registry of all
personal property or other valuable thing received, deposited or purchased at
any time.
§9-306 REGISTER OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   The register so kept by the pawnbroker shall be at all times kept open to
inspection by any police officer of the city or by any county or state peace
officer. The pawnbroker shall, upon request, show and exhibit to any officer
for inspection any article purchased, taken or received by him or her.
§9-307 RECEIVING CERTAIN PROPERTY FORBIDDEN.
   No pawnbroker shall take or receive in pledge or on deposit any article or
property of or from a minor or owned by any minor or any common drunkard, or
person under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or narcotic drugs, or any
stolen property, or property which for any reason he or she may have reason to
believe cannot be lawfully or rightfully pawned or pledged by the person
offering it.
§9-308 SELLING PLEDGE BEFORE DEFAULT.
   Any pawnbroker who shall sell any article received by him or her in pledge
before the time for redemption has expired, and every pawnbroker who willfully
refuses to disclose the name of the purchaser and the price received by him or
her for any article received by him or her in pledge, and subsequent sums, is
guilty of an offense and punishable as provided in §
1-108.
CHAPTER 4: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
9-401   Licenses
   
9-402   Bond; condition
   
9-403   Registry of property
   
9-404   Duty to report to police
   
9-405   Registry open to inspection
   
9-406   Purchases forbidden
   
9-407   “Junk dealer” defined
   
9-408   Purchases forbidden at certain hours
§9-401 LICENSES.
   No person shall carry on or engage in business as a junk dealer, keeper of a
junk shop or dealer in secondhand goods in the city without first obtaining a
license therefor, and a secondhand dealer shall be construed as any person who
shall purchase any kind of previously used goods. All exhibitors at coin shows,
art shows or similar type shows, where sponsored by a local organization and,
upon obtaining approval of the Chief of Police of the city, are exempted from
the licensing requirement of this section and the requirement to retain
property purchased for 15 days as provided in §
9-403.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
§9-402 BOND; CONDITION.
   Every person applying for a license to engage in or carry on the business of
a junk dealer, keeper of a junk shop or dealer in secondhand goods, shall,
before such license is issued, enter into an approved bond with the city in the
penal sum of $1,000, conditioned that the applicant will strictly and
faithfully observe all ordinances, regulations and requirements of the city
relating to the conduct of a junk shop, business of a junk dealer or dealer in
secondhand goods, and will pay all costs, fines and penalties incurred on the
account of failure or neglect in that behalf, and pay all damages resulting to
any person by reason of any wrongful taking, purchasing or receiving of any
stolen property or the property of any minor, which bond shall be filed with
the City Treasurer and may be sued upon by any person damaged in the name of
the city for the use of such person, but in no event shall the city be liable
for the costs of such suit.
§9-403 REGISTRY OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Every junk dealer, keeper of a junk shop or dealer in secondhand
goods, shall keep at his or her place of business a registry in which he or she
shall enter the following:
      (1)   The date of purchase of each item;
      (2)   The name and address of the seller or transferor;
      (3)   The items purchased or received;
      (4)   The price paid for each item; and
      (5)   The signature of the seller or transferor.
   (B)   All entries shall be made in ink and shall not in any manner be
obliterated or erased.
   (C)   All persons, firms or corporations carrying on such business shall
keep all property purchased in their place of business within the city, in the
same condition the property was in at the time of purchase or receipt for at
least 15 days after the date of purchase or receipt of such property and keep
same available for inspection during the 15-day period before disposing of such
property.
§9-404 DUTY TO REPORT TO POLICE.
   It is the duty of every junk dealer, keeper of a junk shop or dealer in
secondhand goods, to make out and deliver to the Chief of Police, upon request,
a legible and correct copy of any part or parts of the registry for any day or
days in which goods have been received or purchased; provided, that no junk
dealer, keeper of a junk shop or secondhand goods shall be required to keep a
registry or furnish such description of any property purchased from any person
having an established place of business in the city, nor of goods sold at
public sale; but such goods must be accompanied by a bill of sale or other
evidence of open and legitimate purchase and must be shown to any member of the
Police Department when required.
§9-405 REGISTRY OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   Any registry so kept shall, at all times, be kept open to inspection by any
police officer of the city or by any state or county officer. The dealer shall,
upon request, show and exhibit to any officer for inspection any article
purchased by him or her.
§9-406 PURCHASES FORBIDDEN.
   No junk dealer, keeper of a junk shop or dealer in secondhand goods shall
receive any article of property of or from a minor, or owned by any minor, or
from any drunkard or person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor
or narcotic drugs, or any stolen property or any property which, for any
reason, he or she may believe the same cannot be lawfully or rightfully sold by
the person offering it.
§9-407 “JUNK DEALER” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who shall carry on the business of buying secondhand
brass, copper, iron, precious metals, precious stones, jewelry, leather
belting, plumbing or electrical fixtures, burlap bags, tools, machinery or
materials or supplies commonly used in the drilling, completing, operating or
repairing of oil and gas wells.
§9-408 PURCHASES FORBIDDEN AT CERTAIN HOURS.
   No junk dealer, keeper of a junk shop or dealer in secondhand goods shall
take or receive from any persons any articles of property between the hours of
9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
CHAPTER 5: RECREATION CENTERS
Section
   
9-501   “Recreation centers” defined
   
9-502   License required
   
9-503   License requirements
   
9-504   Restrictions on location of and operation of recreation centers
   
9-505   Suspension or revocation of license
§9-501 “RECREATION CENTERS” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECREATION CENTER. Any place, business or premises which maintains more than
one pool table, snooker table or billiard table or one or more electronic or
video games, pinball machines, table games or other similar services, provided
that the following shall not be considered recreation centers:
   (A)   Private homes;
   (B)   Duly licensed bottle clubs, taverns, bars and dance hall;
   (C)   Churches and church recreation or activity centers;
   (D)   Businesses maintaining either:
      (1)   Not more than one table for pool, snooker or billiards;
      (2)   Not more than five or a combination of not more than five of any of
the following: electronic or video games, pinball machines, table games or
similar amusement games or devices; or
      (3)   Provided that the tables, games, machines or devices occupy a floor
space equivalent to less than 5% of the maximum occupancy of the business, as
established by the building code of the city.
§9-502 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association
to operate or maintain a recreation center, as defined in §
9-501, without a valid annual license therefor issued by the City Treasurer.
§9-503 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for an annual license shall be made on forms provided by
the City Clerk.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued on an annual basis and shall expire on April
30 of the year for which it is issued.
   (C)   The annual fee for the license for the operation of a recreation
center shall be as set by the City Council by motion or resolution, payable
upon the issuance of the annual license.
   (D)   Holders of recreation center licenses shall conspicuously display such
licenses on the premises of the licensed recreation center.
§9-504 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION OF AND OPERATION OF RECREATION CENTERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or association to:
   (A)   Operate a recreation center at any location in violation of the city’s
zoning ordinance or the constitution and laws of the state;
   (B)   Operate a recreation center between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00
a.m.; provided, however, that upon the close of business on Saturday, no
recreation center shall open before 1:00 p.m. on the following Sunday;
   (C)   Permit any intoxicated person whether by alcohol, drugs or other
substances to be in or about the premises; and
   (D)   Sell, barter, give away or permit the consumption of alcoholic
beverages or beer in or about the premises of such recreation center.
§9-505 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All complaints concerning recreation centers shall be submitted to the
Chief of Police for investigation. If the Chief of Police finds that a
violation of the provisions of this chapter has been committed, he or she shall
file a complaint with the city, setting forth the alleged acts constituting the
violation. Upon the filing of such a complaint, the city shall fix a date for
hearing of the complaint by the City Council and shall cause to be served upon
the licensee a copy of the complaint and notice of the time and place of the
hearing. The complaint and notice of hearing may be served upon the manager,
operator, partner or person shown on the application for the license as having
supervisory control over the premises of the recreation center or if such
person may not be found, by mailing the same by registered or certified mail
addressed to such person at the licensed premises. At the hearing thereon, the
complainant, the licensee or any interested person may be present and present
such evidence as may be relevant and material. If at the conclusion of such
hearing, the City Council finds that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter, the City Council shall suspend for not more than 15
days or revoke the license issued hereunder. Upon suspension or revocation, the
licensee shall immediately cease operating as a recreation center.
   (B)   Following the revocation of any recreation center license, an
application for a license as a recreation center upon the same premises shall
not be accepted by the City Treasurer for a period of 30 days following the
revocation.
CHAPTER 6: COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
   
9-601   Definitions
   
9-602   License fee
   
9-603   Application for license
   
9-604   Display of license
   
9-605   Prohibited devices not legalized
§9-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
      (1)   Any and all mechanical devices which upon the payment or insertion
of a coin, script, token or similar object which causes, permits or is
incentive for, the propelling or motivating of any ball, marble, electronic
simulation or other gadget or object that produces or creates or makes possible
the production or creation of a game of skill, amusement, entertainment or test
of strength including, but not limited to, shuffleboards, coin-operated devices
utilizing tables, boards or cases of any size whatsoever, balls, sticks, cues,
pegs or marbles; and whether or not any motivating force involved is furnished
by the player or the device.
      (2)   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES shall not include coin-operated
machines operated by penny coins only; or coin-operated vending machines used
exclusively for the purpose of selling tangible, personal property, such as
cold drinks, tobacco products, candies, postage stamps or other similar
merchandise; or services such as pay telephones, parking meters, gas or
electric meters or other distribution of needful services.
   POOL, BILLIARD OR SNOOKER TABLE. Any table specifically manufactured for the
purpose of playing pool, billiards or snooker, whether or not the tables are
coin-operated.
§9-602 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Every person who owns and has available to the public, or who permits
to be operated by the public in or on his or her place of business any coin-
operated amusement devices, pool tables, billiard tables or snooker tables,
shall pay for an annual license for each such device.
   (B)   There is levied an annual license fee on each amusement device in such
sum as set by the City Council by motion or resolution.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the term PUBLIC shall not include
churches and church recreation or activity centers.
§9-603 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for an annual license on such devices shall be made to the
Treasurer.
   (B)   The application form shall contain the name of the applicant, a
description of the device, location of the device and such other information
deemed necessary by the Treasurer to identify the device.
   (C)   Any number of machines may be included in one application.
   (D)   Upon payment of the license fee and approval of the application, the
Treasurer shall issue a license for the device or devices covered by the
application.
§9-604 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Before any coin-operated amusement device, pool table or snooker table is
put into operation or placed where the same may be operated by the public, and
at all times when the same is being operated, or is available to the public for
operation, a license, issued by the city, shall be firmly affixed to the device
covered thereby and plainly visible to and readable by the public.
§9-605 PROHIBITED DEVICES NOT LEGALIZED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to legalize any device that may
be prohibited by the laws of this state or the ordinances of the city. The
Treasurer may assume that any device described in any application, and for
which a license fee is paid, is lawful; and no claim for a refund of any
license fee will be entertained based upon an owner’s or operator’s inability
to operate such devices because of any law of this state or city or for any
other reason.
CHAPTER 7: PRIVATE SECURITY OFFICERS
Section
   
9-701   Purpose
   
9-702   Definitions
   
9-703   Issuance of commissions and permits
   
9-704   Application
   
9-705   Contents
   
9-706   Physical examination
   
9-707   Investigation, interview, ineligibility for commission
   
9-708   Bond requirements
   
9-709   Appointment; action on application; temporary commission
   
9-710   Orientation
   
9-711   Annual application required for commissions and permits
   
9-712   Changes in service areas; processing fee; discontinuance of service
   
9-713   Badge and uniform
   
9-714   Time and place of permanent security service
   
9-715   Service restricted to authorized area
   
9-716   Authority to arrest
   
9-717   Rules and regulations
   
9-718   Suspension, revocation or inquiry regarding commission or permit;
public hearing
   
9-719   Nonliability of the city
§9-701 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve the public health, safety, morals
and general welfare by regulation and control of the business of private
security officers.
§9-702 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY. Monday through Friday, inclusive, but excluding holidays.
   GUARD SERVICE. Stationary armed guards serving private citizens at a
particular and specified place or location.
   PATROL SERVICE. A motorized armed patrol serving private citizens or
companies in a specified geographical area, which area shall be established by
naming the streets forming the exterior boundaries of the area served.
   PERMANENT SECURITY SERVICE. Regularly armed schedule service furnished
hourly, daily, weekly, monthly or for any other period at a specified area,
place or location.
   PRIVATE SECURITY COMPANIES. Any organization or person offering services as
an independent contractor and employing armed private security officers who are
commissioned under the provisions of this chapter. A one-person operation shall
not be considered a PRIVATE SECURITY COMPANY.
   PRIVATE SECURITY OFFICER. Any officer commissioned to provide patrol or
guard service as an independent contractor and who shall be authorized to carry
firearms under the provision of this chapter.
   TEMPORARY SECURITY SERVICE. Service not offered on a regularly armed
scheduled basis.
§9-703 ISSUANCE OF COMMISSIONS AND PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police, subject to the provisions of this chapter, is hereby
authorized to grant commissions to private officers and permits to private
security companies.
§9-704 APPLICATION.
   (A)   To apply for a commission:
      (1)   Each person applying for appointment for commission shall make a
written application on forms provided by the Chief of Police; and
      (2)   A processing fee as set by the Council shall be charged for each
application and for each annual renewal.
   (B)   To apply for a permit:
      (1)   Each private security company applying for a permit shall make a
written application on forms provided by the Chief of Police; and
      (2)   A processing fee as set by the Council shall be charged for each
application and for each annual renewal.
§9-705 CONTENTS.
   Applications for commissions or permits shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   Private security officer commission for guard service:
      (1)   Company, if any, employing the applicant;
      (2)   A standard personal history statement completed on a form provided
by the Chief of Police; and
      (3)   Such other and additional information deemed necessary by the Chief
of Police or City Manager.
   (B)   Private security company permit for guard service:
      (1)   Names of the officers, principals or resident manager of the
company;
      (2)   A standard personal history and statement completed on a form
provided by the Chief of Police; and
      (3)   Such other and additional information deemed necessary by the Chief
of Police or City Manager relating to those persons.
   (C)   Private security officer commission for patrol service:
      (1)   The specific places or area where services would be rendered;
      (2)   Hours of the day when services would be rendered if the applicant
is self-employed;
      (3)   The company, if any, employing the applicant;
      (4)   A standard personal history statement completed on a form provided
by the Chief of Police; and
      (5)   Such other and additional information deemed necessary by the Chief
of Police or City Manager.
   (D)   Private security company permit for patrol service:
      (1)   The names of the officers, principals or resident manager of the
company;
      (2)   A standard personal history statement completed on a form provided
by the Chief of Police; and
      (3)   The specific area of properties where the service would be
furnished and the hours of the day that service would be furnished.
§9-706 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.
   After application for commission is filed, the applicant shall submit a
report from a duly licensed physician, of a physical examination taken within
one year.
§9-707 INVESTIGATION, INTERVIEW, INELIGIBILITY FOR COMMISSION.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a commission, the Police Department shall
conduct a complete background inquiry of the applicant, and the applicant shall
be personally interviewed by the Chief of Police or his or her representative
and the applicant’s photograph and fingerprints shall be obtained.
   (B)   Each applicant will be interviewed as to his or her ability to safely
handle firearms.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall refuse commissions to all persons who have
been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state or of any other state,
or of the United States, or any offense involving moral turpitude, and to all
minors, drug addicts, unnaturalized foreign born persons and such other persons
as he or she has reasonable cause to believe are not of sound mind.
§9-708 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a commission, each individual applicant shall
file with the city a surety bond or certificate of insurance of general
liability in the amount of $10,000 written by a duly qualified bonding or
insurance company licensed to do business in the state.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a permit, each company applicant may file a
bond or certificate of insurance in the amount of $100,000 in lieu of the
individual bonds of its employees.
   (C)   The bond or certificate of insurance shall be renewed and filed
annually with the application for renewal of the commission or permit.
   (D)   The requirements of this section are satisfied if a copy of the
general liability bond or certificate of insurance is on file with the state.
§9-709 APPOINTMENT; ACTION ON APPLICATION; TEMPORARY COMMISSION.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police, subject to the requirements of this chapter
and approval of the City Manager, finds the applicant eligible for a
commission, the applicant shall be appointed as a private officer to service in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall act on all applications within 15 business
days from the time of the filing of the applications.
   (C)   Pending action by the Chief of Police on applications, a temporary
commission may be issued in a case where the delay in granting it would cause
undue hardship on the applicant.
§9-710 ORIENTATION.
   A commissioned private officer shall attend those classes of orientation
reasonably appropriate to his or her service to be rendered as designated by
the Chief of Police and given as directed by the Chief of Police.
§9-711 ANNUAL APPLICATION REQUIRED FOR COMMISSIONS AND PERMITS.
   Reapplication shall be made annually for each commission and permit. The
application for renewal need not be reprocessed but shall be filed with the
Chief of Police by June 15. Unless the applications are received by June 30,
the commission or permit shall be terminated without further action on July 1.
§9-712 CHANGES IN SERVICE AREAS; PROCESSING FEE; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for approval and the payment of a processing fee as set by
the Council shall be required:
      (1)   Before a private security officer or company performing patrol
service may service additional areas;
      (2)   Before a private security officer or company performing guard
service may furnish permanent security service at an additional area; and
      (3)   Before a private security officer or company shall furnish
temporary security service at an additional area.
   (B)   When permanent service is discontinued in an area or at a location,
written notification shall be sent to the Chief of Police.
§9-713 BADGE AND UNIFORM.
   A duly commissioned private officer, when on duty, shall have on his or her
person his or her commission and shall wear uniform, badge or other emblems of
authority as approved by the Chief of Police, which shall in any event be
clearly distinctive and different from that of regular city police officers and
shall designate the officer as private officer, security officer or security
service.
§9-714 TIME AND PLACE OF PERMANENT SECURITY SERVICE.
   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the City Manager, shall designate
the specific place or area and hours of the day that each private officer or
company may furnish permanent security patrol service.
§9-715 SERVICE RESTRICTED TO AUTHORIZED AREA.
   Duly commissioned private officers or private security companies shall at
all times service only the place or specifically defined geographical area
where they are authorized to serve under the provisions of this chapter.
§9-716 AUTHORITY TO ARREST.
   A duly commissioned private officer is not a member of the Police Department
and shall not have the authority of a police officer. He or she shall, while on
duty at his or her assigned place, have the right to carry a pistol or revolver
and make arrests only as a private citizen is granted authority by State
statutes.
§9-717 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall promulgate and publish, with the approval of the
City Manager and Council, those additional rules and regulations consistent
with this chapter and as may be necessary to its implementation. Copies shall
be furnished applicants upon request.
§9-718 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR INQUIRY REGARDING COMMISSION OR PERMIT; PUBLIC
HEARING.
   (A)   The commission of any private security officer or permit of any
private security company may be suspended or revoked at any time by the Chief
of Police for violation of any of the requirements necessary for a commission
or permit or for violation of any rule or regulation established pursuant to
this chapter or during pendency of inquiry into the discharge of a firearm.
   (B)   Upon a violation occurring, the Chief of Police or his or her
representative shall give the private security officer or private security
company notice of any suspension or revocation hearing at least five days prior
to the date of public hearing, and such notice shall be furnished by mail. The
suspension or revocation hearings will be conducted by a three-member board
consisting of:
      (1)   The Chief of Police or his or her representative;
      (2)   The City Manager or his or her representative; and
      (3)   The City Attorney.
§9-719 NONLIABILITY OF THE CITY.
   Any commissioned private officer, while in the performance of his or her
duties as a private officer, shall not be deemed to be an agent, servant or
employee of the city and the city shall not be liable for his or her actions to
third parties or for any injury or damage he or she might suffer.
CHAPTER 8: PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS
Section
   
9-801   Definitions
   
9-802   Exemptions
   
9-803   License required
   
9-804   Application for license
   
9-805   Investigation of fingerprints by Chief of Police
   
9-806   Standards for issuance of license
   
9-807   Action on application
   
9-808   License fee
   
9-809   Employees
   
9-810   Identification cards
   
9-811   Conditions of licensing
   
9-812   Appeal from action by City Treasurer
   
9-813   Action to revoke or suspend license
   
9-814   Conduct of Committee hearings
   
9-815   Appeal procedure
   
9-816   Composition of the Private Investigator’s Review Committee
§9-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSISTANT PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR. Any person not eligible for a private
investigator’s license but who is engaged in the business of private
investigator under the direct supervision and control of a licensee hereunder.
   BUSINESS OF PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR. Shall consist of the business of making,
for hire or reward or any consideration whatsoever, an investigation or
investigations by a person or persons for the purpose of obtaining information
with reference to any of the following matters:
      (1)   Private or public crimes;
      (2)   Credibility of witnesses or other persons;
      (3)   Habits, conduct, movements, associations, transactions, reputation
or character of persons;
      (4)   The location or recovery of lost or stolen property;
      (5)   Securing of evidence to be used before investigating committees,
boards of award or arbitration or in the trial of civil or criminal cases and
proceedings;
      (6)   Wrongs to persons or property done or threatened; or
      (7)   Causes, origin or responsibility for fires or accidents or injuries
to real or personal property, strikes or labor disputes.
   COMMITTEE. The City Private Investigator’s Review Committee.
§9-802 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any investigator or
officer belonging to the police force of the federal, state, county or city
government appointed or elected by due authority of law while engaged in the
performance of his or her official duties; nor to any given person in the
employ of the police force or Police Department of the state or of the county
or city while engaged in the performance of his or her official duties; nor to
any attorneys at law or legal interns in the regular practice of their
profession; nor any person, firm or corporation legally and solely employed as
insurance adjusters who engage in investigative activities connected only with
adjustment of claims against an insurance company; nor any person, firm or
corporation whose sole business is the furnishing of information as to the
business and financial standing and credit of persons, firms or corporation;
nor to any person making any investigation of any matter in which such person
or his or her sole employer is involved or interested; nor to any investigator
employed exclusively for one employer in connection with the business of a
collection agency; nor to any person employed exclusively by private
investigators for secretarial purposes; nor to any person or persons employed
for, or in the business of furnishing for hire or reward, guard or guards,
watch person(s), patrols or other persons to protect or to prevent the theft or
the unlawful taking of goods, wares and merchandise.
§9-803 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate, advertise or otherwise hold himself or herself out
as a private investigator in the city without first obtaining a license as
hereinafter provided from the City Treasurer or his or her designee.
§9-804 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for license issued hereunder shall be made upon blank
forms prepared and made available by the City Treasurer or his or her designee
and shall state:
      (1)   The full name, age, residence, telephone number and present and
previous employment record of the applicant;
      (2)   Applicant’s citizenship;
      (3)   The firm name and specific location of the place of business of
applicant;
      (4)   Number of years’ experience applicant has had as a private
detective, or in related fields;
      (5)   Length of time applicant has been a bona fide resident of the state
immediately preceding the filing of the application;
      (6)   Summary of military service, including date thereof and whether or
not applicant was honorably discharged;
      (7)   All convictions of applicant for felonies and misdemeanors
involving moral turpitude;
      (8)   Place and date of birth;
      (9)   Affidavits from at least three persons who have personally known
the applicant for a period of at least three years prior to the filing of such
application, as to the moral character of the applicant; provided such persons
be not related to the applicant by blood or marriage; and
      (10)   Affidavits from those who can personally attest to the applicant’s
experience during specific time periods in the business of private investigator
or as assistant private investigator, sufficient when added together, to
establish that the applicant has met the minimum standards for issuance of
license.
   (B)   The application required hereunder shall be accompanied by a full set
of fingerprints and a recent photograph and shall be verified by the applicant.
The application required shall be accompanied by an application fee as set by
the Council.
§9-805 INVESTIGATION OF FINGERPRINTS BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Within ten days after receipt of an application as provided for herein, the
Chief of Police shall cause such fingerprints of known criminals made, and if
any record is found affecting such prints, the Chief of Police shall
immediately notify the City Treasurer.
§9-806 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall issue a license hereunder when he or she
finds:
      (1)   That the applicant has complied fully with the provisions
pertaining to the application for license;
      (2)   That the applicant has never been convicted of any felony or any
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude as determined by the Chief of Police;
      (3)   That the applicant is a citizen of the United States of America,
or, if not a citizen, submits proof that he or she is an alien lawfully
admitted within the country;
      (4)   That the applicant is at least 21 years of age;
      (5)   That the applicant has not been discharged from the armed services
of the United States under other than honorable conditions; and
      (6)   That the applicant has at least 2,000 hours’ experience engaged in
the business of private investigator or as assistant private investigator. For
the purpose of this section, the applicant may have gained such experience in
the business of private investigator while in the employ of any branch of
federal, state, county or city government.
   (B)   The standards herein set forth shall be exclusive and no additional
requirements can be imposed except by amendment of this chapter.
§9-807 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   The City Treasurer shall act upon the application within 30 days after
receiving same. If all application requirements are met, a license shall be
issued to the successful applicant upon the payment of a license fee as herein
provided. If the City Treasurer disapproves or denies the application, he or
she shall notify the applicant in writing within ten days thereafter, giving
specific reasons for the disapproval or denial. Any applicant aggrieved shall
have the right of appeal, after notice to the Committee as herein provided.
§9-808 LICENSE FEE.
   A license fee as set by the City Council by motion or resolution shall be
paid to the city annually by all persons licensed hereunder.
§9-809 EMPLOYEES.
   The licensed private investigator may employ, to assist him or her in the
business of private investigator, as many persons as he or she shall deem
necessary pursuant to the following conditions.
   (A)   The licensee shall at all times accept full responsibility for the
conduct in the business of each and every person so employed.
   (B)   The licensee shall be responsible to see that all such employees meet
the requirements of §
9-806(A)(2) through (A)(5).
   (C)   Within ten days after employment of an assistant private investigator,
the licensed private investigator by whom such person has been employed shall
cause an employee registration form provided by the City Treasurer to be filed
with the City Treasurer upon payment of a registration fee as set by the
Council.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall issue a photo identification card to the
employee pursuant to the regulation providing for identification cards.
   (E)   The employee’s status as assistant private investigator automatically
terminates upon the expiration, revocation or suspension of the responsible
employer/private investigator. It is the duty of the private investigator to
surrender the employee’s identification card when made necessary by this
provision.
§9-810 IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall issue a photo identification to an
applicant for a private investigator’s license upon determination that the
application has been approved by the City Treasurer and that the license fee
has been paid.
      (2)   Such card shall state the name of the applicant, the name of the
applicant’s business firm, the words “private investigator” and the expiration
date of the license.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall issue a photo identification card to
an assistant private investigator upon determination that the appropriate
registration fee has been paid and that the employee has not been convicted of
a felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude after having compared the
employee’s fingerprints with those of known criminals.
      (2)   Such card shall state the name of the employee, the words
“assistant private investigator employed by” and the name of the employee’s
business firm.
§9-811 CONDITIONS OF LICENSING.
   (A)   (1)   Licenses issued hereunder shall not be transferable. In
addition, a licensee who changes business firms must notify the City Treasurer
in writing within seven days of the effective date of such change.
      (2)   At the same time, the licensee shall turn in his or her
identification card and those of any assistant private investigators employed
by him or her, and upon paying a $5 processing charge for each new card
desired, shall be issued a new photo identification card or cards identical in
all respects except for the change in the business firm name.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall issue renewal licenses to all licensees whose
licenses have not been suspended or revoked at the time the licenses have
expired, and for 90 days thereafter, upon payment of the license fee.
   (C)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (D)   The Private Investigator’s Review Committee may, after hearing,
suspend for definite periods of time or revoke a license, or refuse a license
issued under this chapter:
      (1)   If such licensee has knowingly violated any of the provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   If the licensee has knowingly made a false report in writing to his
or her client or other person entitled to receive such information, in respect
to any of the matters for which the licensee may be employed;
      (3)   If the licensee, during his or her employment by the client, shall
accept money or gratuities from any person whose affairs he or she may have
been employed by such client to investigate;
      (4)   If the licensee has knowingly or wrongfully divulged to any person
other than his or her client or employer, except as his or her client or
employer shall direct and except as may be required by law, any information
acquired by him or her during such employment, with respect to any of the work
to which he or she, or any other employee of such licensee, shall have been
assigned by the licensee, or with respect to any of the work, business or
affairs of the trustee;
      (5)   If the licensee has, knowingly or willfully, falsely stated or
represented any matter of information contained as a part of an application for
license hereunder;
      (6)   If the licensee willfully fails or refuses to render to a client
services or a report as agreed between the parties for which compensation has
been paid or tendered in accordance with the written agreement of the parties;
      (7)   If such licensee willfully fails or refuses to return to a client
the unused portion of a retainer or compensation which has been paid or
tendered, in accordance with the written agreement of the parties;
      (8)   If the licensee is convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude;
      (9)   If the licensee has practiced any fraud, deceit or intentional
misrepresentation; and
      (10)   If an employee of a licensee has committed any of the
aforementioned acts at the direction and with the knowledge of the licensee.
   (E)   Identification cards issued hereunder shall remain the property of the
city and shall be surrendered by the licensee to the City Treasurer upon
expiration, revocation or suspension of a license.
§9-812 APPEAL FROM ACTION BY CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Appeals from any action of the City Treasurer may be taken by the
person aggrieved to the Committee by filing within 30 days of the receipt of
notice of such action a written notice of appeal with the Chairperson of the
Committee stating the grounds for appeal.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, the Committee shall, within 20
days thereafter, hold a public hearing thereon. At the conclusion of such
hearing, the Committee shall affirm, modify or reverse the action taken by the
City Treasurer.
§9-813 ACTION TO REVOKE OR SUSPEND LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   The Committee shall, upon receipt by the Committee Chairperson
of a verified written complaint of any person setting forth facts which, if
proven, would constitute grounds for revocation or suspension of a license as
set forth herein, cause an inquiry to be made of all information presented for
its consideration.
      (2)   Only upon completion of the inquiry where a majority of the
Committee then present and voting are satisfied that the inquiry reveals
reasonable grounds to proceed, will a hearing be conducted.
   (B)   The Committee shall cause notice to the licensee of the following
prior to concluding the inquiry:
      (1)   The information has been presented to the Committee that the
licensee has allegedly committed an act or acts which may amount to grounds for
revocation or suspension;
      (2)   The Committee will conduct an inquiry designed to ascertain the
basis of such information;
      (3)   The licensee will be afforded an opportunity to be heard before the
Committee; and
      (4)   If the inquiry reveals reasonable grounds to conduct a hearing, the
procedures outlined herein shall apply.
   (C)   After inquiry and a determination by the Committee that a hearing
should be conducted, the Committee shall schedule a hearing on a date certain
wherein the licensee shall have been given not less than 14 days’ nor more than
28 days’ advance notice of the date of the hearing.
   (D)   Notice of the licensee required herein shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Notification that the Committee is in receipt of information that
the licensee is alleged to have committed an act or acts which may be grounds
for revocation or suspension;
      (2)   The Committee on its own inquiry has reasonable belief that the act
or acts of the theretofore presented information have occurred;
      (3)   The Committee has scheduled a fact-finding hearing, on a date from
14 to 28 days from the notice, to ascertain the full facts surrounding the
information; and
      (4)   The licensee has full right of appearance and representation before
the Committee on the date as specified.
   (E)   Any notice required herein shall be in writing and may be served by
delivery of the notice personally to the licensee or by mailing the notice by
registered mail to the place of business last theretofore specified by such
licensee in his or her last communication with the Committee.
   (F)   Upon good cause shown, the Committee may continue for up to 14 days
the hearing as scheduled.
   (G)   The Committee shall, after full consideration, notify the licensee and
the City Treasurer in writing of its decision and the reasons therefor within
14 days from the date the decision was rendered.
§9-814 CONDUCT OF COMMITTEE HEARINGS.
   All hearings before the Committee as required herein shall be held as
scheduled before a majority of the Committee members and be of a fact-finding
nature and will not be adversarial in scope or in nature. Strict legal rules of
evidence shall not be followed for the reason that the proceedings before the
Committee shall be to ascertain all facts surrounding the matter before the
Committee, matters of an irrelevant or immaterial nature excepted.
§9-815 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved by the Committee’s decision to deny, revoke or suspend
a private investigator’s license shall have the right to appeal to the district
court.
§9-816 COMPOSITION OF THE PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR’S REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city, with the approval of the City Council, shall
appoint the Private Investigator’s Review Committee, which shall be composed of
two private investigators licensed as outlined herein or two investigators in
the described field, one private attorney at law, one private citizen and the
Chief of Police or his or her designated representative. The members of the
Committee shall be appointed for a term of three years, except the members
first appointed shall be appointed for a term of one, or two, or three years as
designated by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Committee shall elect from among its members the person who is to
serve as Chairperson.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed to the Private Investigator’s Review
Committee who holds office as an elected officer of the city, state or federal
government, or who is not a resident of the city. A member of the Committee may
be removed from office prior to the expiration of his or her term, for cause,
by the Mayor, only upon written request by three members of the Private
Investigator’s Review Committee, which written request shall set forth specific
reasons for the member’s removal.
CHAPTER 9: CITY AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
   
9-901   Definitions
   
9-902   Contract for sole provider ambulance service
   
9-903   Investigation of sole provider
   
9-904   Minimum standards
   
9-905   Emergency Medical Services Board
   
9-906   Organization of Board
   
9-907   Duties of the Board
   
9-908   Emergency medical services license
   
9-909   Contracts with other persons, firms and corporations
   
9-910   Rates for ambulance service
§9-901 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   AMBULANCE. Any motor vehicle equipped with facilities therein to convey
infirm or injured persons.
   ATTENDANT. Any person who has the duty of caring for a sick, ill or injured
person in an ambulance, and who is registered with the city.
   BOARD. The Emergency Medical Services Board as herein established.
   CERTIFICATE. A certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the
City Council, licensing an operator, as hereinafter defined.
   CLERK. The City Treasurer of the city or his or her designated
representative.
   CONTRACT FOR SERVICE. The contract by and between a designated sole service
provider and the city for ambulance service.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   DRIVER. Every individual who drives an ambulance, as herein defined and who
has a commercial chauffeur’s license issued by the State Department of Public
Safety, and who is registered with the city.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of the City-County Health Department or his or
her designated representative.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in business as the owner
or proprietor of ambulances.
   PERMIT. The operating permit which an operator is required to obtain
annually for each and every motor vehicle operated as an ambulance.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation or other
group or combination acting as a unit.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. For the purpose of this chapter, a public entity is the
state, a political subdivision of the state, public trust created pursuant to
60 O.S. §§ 171 et seq., with the city as its beneficiary.
   REGISTRATION. The registration of drivers and attendants by the city.
   SOLE SERVICE PROVIDER. The designated ambulance service transport provider
under contract with the city to provide ambulance service to the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
§9-902 CONTRACT FOR SOLE PROVIDER AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   (A)   Pursuant to provision of 63 O.S., the city, after a majority vote of
the City Council may enter into contracts for sole provider ambulance service.
   (B)   Contracts will be executed with a sole provider service under the
following conditions:
      (1)   After competitive bid with proper notice given in accordance with
63 O.S. § 1-2515; or
      (2)   Without necessity of competitive bids when the contracting sole
provider is a public entity, as defined herein.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
§9-903 INVESTIGATION OF SOLE PROVIDER.
   Prior to entering into a contract for sole provider ambulance service, or
prior to renewal of an existing contract, the City Council may direct the City
Clerk to cause an investigation to be made of the prospective or current
applicant to ensure that:
   (A)   In the case of a current or prospective provider that services have
been satisfactory, rules and regulations of the State Department of Health have
been complied with, that equipment is satisfactorily maintained, that any
organization providing service to the sole provider service is licensed,
insured and in compliance with state law; and
   (B)   Clerk shall provide all acquired information to the EMS Board for
evaluation.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
§9-904 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The sole service provider will be required to comply with the minimum
standards for ambulance service adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council will adopt minimum standards for ambulance service by
utilizing the recommendations of an Emergency Medical Services Board which
existed under prior code section and is reestablished in § 9-905.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
§9-905 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby reestablished an Emergency Medical Services Board to
act in an advisory capacity to the City Council in the development, formulation
and alteration of rules, regulations and standards for the operations of
ambulances, certification of operators, issuance of permits and registrations
as defined herein. The Board shall be responsible for a continuing study and
recommendation concerning the emergency medical services of the city.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall consist of seven members composed as follows:
         (a)   A member who is a licensed physician and who is also a member of
the County Medical Society;
         (b)   A member who is a representative of the city, the individual
appointed by the City Manager;
         (c)   A member who is a representative from the State Nurses
Association;
         (d)   A member who is a representative of one of the local law
enforcement agencies;
         (e)   Three members from the community at large; and
         (f)   The health officer shall serve as ex officio member and shall
act as secretary to the Board.
      (2)   All Board members shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   All members of the EMS Board, appointed under prior ordinance and
serving at the time of the enactment hereof shall complete their current terms
except the representative of the local hospital who shall be replaced by the
city representative who shall complete the term of the hospital representative.
   (D)   The members shall be nominated by the Mayor and appointed by a vote of
the City Council for a term of three years, except that initially two of the
members shall be appointed for three-year terms, three of the members shall be
appointed for two-year terms, and two of the members shall be appointed for a
one-year term. All members, however, shall hold office until their successors
are appointed. The initial members of the Board shall be appointed within two
weeks of the date of the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
§9-906 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD.
   The Board shall select annually a Chairperson from among its members. The
Board shall hold at least four regular meetings each year and such additional
meetings as the Chairperson deems necessary. Special meetings may be called by
the Chairperson, or upon written request of any four members. Four members of
the Board shall constitute a quorum. The secretary to the Board shall maintain
minutes of each Board meeting and provide a copy of same to the Council.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
§9-907 DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   Within 30 days from the time of its appointment, the Board shall submit to
the Council its initial rules, regulations and standards for operation of
ambulances, certification of operators, issuance of permits and registrations
as defined herein. The rules, regulations and permits and standards formulated
by the Board and approved by the Council shall become effective when adopted by
the Council by resolution. At no time shall the standards for ambulance service
operation, as adopted hereunder, be less than the current minimal standards
adopted by the committee on trauma of the American College of Surgeons,
National Highway Safety Bureau and the State Department of Health.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
§9-908 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES LICENSE.
   (A)   All license requirements provided for by the State Department of
Health emergency medical service division relating to personnel and equipment
will be complied with at all times by sole provider.
   (B)   City may make inquiry regarding EMS licenses at any time. Sole
provider must make information available to City Clerk within two business days
of inquiry.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
§9-909 CONTRACTS WITH OTHER PERSONS, FIRMS AND CORPORATIONS.
   (A)   Sole service providers under contract with city or other public entity
may continue existing contracts with the public entity, or may contract with
other persons, firms or corporations through the city or public entity.
   (B)   Prior to execution of contracts with other entities, sole service
providers will notify the City Clerk in writing of their intent to do so.
   (C)   The city or public entity (City Hospital Authority) will, at their
discretion, approve contracts. Where approved by public entity other than the
city, a copy of the contract will be provided to City Council.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-23-2006)
§9-910 RATES FOR AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   (A)   Prior to increase in rates charged by sole provider, EMS Board will
examine proposed rate changes to ensure compliance with state laws regulating
rates.
   (B)   EMS Board will provide City Council with a recommendation regarding
rate changes. The recommendations will address the necessity of change,
compliance with existing state law or regulation and a time frame for the
implementation.
   (C)   City Council will vote to ratify or deny the rate changes.
(Ord. 1412, passed 11-12-1996)
CHAPTER 10: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
9-1001   Purpose
   
9-1002   Definitions
   
9-1003   Limitation of garage sales
   
9-1004   Penalty
§9-1001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve the health, safety and general
welfare by the regulation of garage sales in such a manner as to prohibit the
continual operation thereof within residential areas.
(Ord. 1241, passed 7-9-1985)
§9-1002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISED. The publication, broadcast or posting of notice which specifies
the time and place of the sale; the posting of notice of sale at the site of
such sale; or the conspicuous display of merchandise within view from a public
street.
   GARAGE SALE. The advertised display for sale of new or used merchandise or
materials upon a residentially used property, whether within or outside a
building.
(Ord. 1241, passed 7-9-1985)
§9-1003 LIMITATION OF GARAGE SALES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to conduct
or operate a garage sale on any residentially used property for more than ten
days within any calendar year.
(Ord. 1241, passed 7-9-1985)
§9-1004 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall violate the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108. Each day upon which a person, firm, association or corporation(s)
violates the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, any person,
firm, association or corporation who shall violate the provisions of this
chapter may also be found guilty of violation of the zoning ordinance of the
city and may be punished as therein provided.
(Ord. 1241, passed 7-9-1985)
CHAPTER 11: PENALTY
Section
   
9-1101   Penalty for violation
§9-1101 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person, who engages in any business, profession, trade or occupation, or
exercises any privilege, for which a license or permit is required by this
part, without a valid license or permit as hereby required, or who violates any
provision of this part, is guilty of an offense against the city and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
CHAPTER 12: DONATION BOXES
Section
   
9-1201   Definitions
   
9-1202   Permit required
   
9-1203   Regulations
   
9-1204   Penalty
§9-1201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The owner/operator of a donation box.
   DONATION BOX. A box, bin or storage container used for the collection of
clothing, shoes, small household items and other miscellaneous articles of
personal property intended for resale or reuse.
(Ord. 1729, passed 11-11-2014)
§9-1202 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No one shall place or allow to be placed any donation box outside of a
building within the city limits without first obtaining a business license to
do so from the city’s licensing agent.
   (B)   Application for a business license shall be made through the city’s
licensing agent prior to the placement of any box. In addition to the
application, the applicant shall submit a site plan and written permission from
the property owner. The site plan should show the proposed location of the box
and its relationship to property lines, easements, parking areas and any
buildings located on the property. The written permission should include the
property owner’s name, legibly printed, dates the property is to be used and to
whom permission is being granted. The written permission shall also be signed
and dated by the property owner. Once the complete application is submitted and
approved, a business license shall be issued to the applicant in accordance
with the regulations found below.
   (C)   All boxes will be issued a city decal with an approved business
license. Decals shall be placed on the front upper right corner of each box
with the front being the side where the box has an opening for donations/
collections. Each decal shall state the expiration date of the license and have
a unique number that can be used for tracking purposes.
   (D)   Donation boxes shall not require a business license if one of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   Box is located on private property owned or controlled by the
applicant and is associated with the applicant’s permanent business located
within a building on the same property as box; or
      (2)   Box is sponsored by or under contract with the city and located on
public property.
   (E)   Boxes not requiring a business license are still subject to the
regulations found below.
(Ord. 1729, passed 11-11-2014)
§9-1203 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No box shall be located in an R-1 or R-2 Zoning District or within 200
feet of a one- or two-family residence.
   (B)   No box shall be located within one mile of an existing box.
   (C)   No one applicant shall have more than five boxes within the city at
any given time; provided, that boxes located on property owned or controlled by
the applicant and are associated with the applicant’s permanent business
located within a building on the same property as the box shall not be included
in the five-box limit.
   (D)   No box shall be located on property that does not currently have a
permanent business in operation on the same property.
   (E)   No portion of any box shall be located within the front or side
building setback, on property owned by or dedicated to the public, or located
within the sight triangle of any intersecting streets or driveways.
   (F)   All boxes and related vehicular and pedestrian access, parking and
maneuvering shall be located on hard surface pavement.
   (G)   No required off-street parking spaces may be utilized for such box,
and such shall not be located in any loading lane, driving aisle, queuing area
or handicap parking space including access lane.
   (H)   No box shall be larger than six feet wide by six feet long and stand
taller than six feet.
   (I)   All boxes shall be clearly marked with the name and phone number of
the applicant and shall state whether donation is “tax deductible” or “non-tax
deductible,” provided:
      (1)   Required markings shall be in a font that is easily readable with
letters being at least four inches tall;
      (2)   Required markings shall be located on the front of each box with
the front being the side where the box has an opening for donations.
   (J)   All items for donation shall at all times be fully maintained within
the box. No accumulation of items, trash or debris outside of box shall be
allowed.
   (K)   All boxes shall be constructed of all weather type material and
regularly maintained (e.g., repainted/repaired) by the applicant such that they
remain in a like new condition.
(Ord. 1729, passed 11-11-2014)
§9-1204 PENALTY.
   If items, trash or debris accumulates outside of the box or if the box
becomes deteriorated due to lack of proper maintenance, the box shall be
considered junk and debris, and the applicant will be subject to citations
pursuant to §
1-108 and/or suspension or revocation of the business license. No business
license for a donation box shall be issued or renewed to any applicant with any
pending suspended license for a donation box or to any applicant whose business
license for a donation box has been revoked within the previous three calendar
years.
(Ord. 1729, passed 11-11-2014)
PART 10: OFFENSES AND CRIMES
Chapter
   
1.    OFFENSES IN GENERAL
   
2.    OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
3.    OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
   
4.    OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
   
5.    OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
   
6.    OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
   
7.    PENALTIES
CHAPTER 1: OFFENSES IN GENERAL
Section
   
10-101   Attempts to commit an offense
   
10-102   Aiding in an offense
§10-101 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
§10-102 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
CHAPTER 2: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
10-201   Petit larceny prohibited
   
10-202   Injuring automobiles and other vehicles
   
10-203   Destroying or injuring buildings and other property
   
10-204   Placing signs on property of another
   
10-205   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
10-206   Tampering with, damaging and theft of utilities
   
10-207   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
10-208   Illegal entrance and loitering
   
10-209   Unlawful deposits
   
10-210   Trespass prohibited
   
10-211   Parking on property of another person or business
   
10-212   Improper use of driveways and parking areas
   
10-213   Interference with fire hydrants
   
10-214   Graffiti prohibited
§10-201 PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, PETIT LARCENY means the taking of
personal property of value not exceeding $1,000 accomplished by fraud or
stealth and with intent to deprive another thereof, but it does not include the
taking of such property from the “person” of another.
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1768, passed 8-22-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1704 and 1706
§10-202 INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter or occupy any automobile or other vehicle belonging to another, without
the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to mutilate, deface or injure any
automobile or other vehicle, or to remove therefrom any number, tag or mark
indicating ownership or identity thereof.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1787
§10-203 DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to purposely destroy, injure, deface,
besmear or molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other
property, real or personal, public or private, belonging to another or to use
any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person
entitled to its use. It is unlawful to interfere wrongfully with the use of any
such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to loosen or remove any plank, board,
block, brick, stone, stringer, support or other part from, or to injure or
destroy, any sidewalk, crossing, bridge, culvert, viaduct, gate, sign or other
property of another, without lawful authority.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1760 et seq.
§10-204 PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
§10-205 THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is likely
to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot
any stone or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light or
other property of another (whether public or private), except in case where
such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property.
§10-206 TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGING AND THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, district or association, whether
private, municipal, body politic or cooperative, which is engaged in the sale,
generation, distribution or delivery of electricity, water, sewer, cable
television or gas.
   UTILITY SERVICE. The furnishing, sale, generation, distribution or delivery
of electricity, water, sewer, cable television or gas by a utility, as defined
herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to defraud a utility,
to:
      (1)   Alter, tamper with, injure or knowingly allow the altering,
tampering with or injuring of any pipeline, line, wire, conduit, conductor,
meter, meter seal, transformer or other equipment used by a utility to deliver
or register service;
      (2)   Prevent any installed metering device from registering correctly
the quantity of service passing through such metering device;
      (3)   Make or cause to be made any connection between any pipeline,
lines, wires, conduits, conductors, meters, transformers or other equipment in
such manner as to prevent the correct registration of service by any metering
device, or to otherwise use electricity without the consent of the utility;
      (4)   Supply or cause to be supplied any utility service to any person
without such service first passing through the metering device provided by the
utility for measuring and registering the quantity of service; or
      (5)   Continue to use utility service, of any kind, prior to paying a
reinstatement fee or arranging with the utility for reestablishment of
services:
         (a)   Once notice of utility cutoff or discontinuance has been
provided to the utility customer in the manner and form customarily used by the
utility to give notice of cutoff; and
         (b)   Utility provider has discontinued service at the customer
delivery point or meter. This action shall be deemed to be theft of a utility.
   (C)   Any person who is convicted of violating the provisions of division
(B) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by payment of a fine as
provided in §
1-108, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 30
days.
   (D)   If a civil action is brought by a utility against a person, the person
may post a bond, cash or other security with the utility in an amount equal to
the value of the service alleged to be unlawfully used or diverted. Upon
posting of the bond or cash, and until final disposition of the case, the
utility shall restore to the person any service which it may have terminated.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to licensed and
certified contractors while performing usual and ordinary service in accordance
with the recognized standards.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed as repealing any laws of the state
relating to the power, duties or jurisdiction of the State Corporation
Commission, but shall be held as auxiliary and supplementary thereto.
   (G)   (1)   The municipal utility provider, acting through the City Manager,
or his or her designated representative may waive prosecution relating to
division (B)(5) above for consumers, customers, continual use of municipally
provided utilities as defined herein.
      (2)   The municipal utility shall provide notice by regular mail and also
post said notice on the property being served with municipal utilities. The
notice shall contain a provision allowing the utility consumer seven days to
notify the municipal provider that the consumer waives prosecution and will pay
$60 total in the form of a penalty.
      (3)   If the consumer fails to notify the municipal provider of its
decision within the time specified herein the municipal utility shall cause
charges to be filed in the municipal court pursuant to provision contained
herein.
      (3)   The municipal utility may waive prosecution relating to this
division (G) only one time per consumer or consumer household and shall
prosecute all other violations in conformance with this section.
(Ord. 1454, passed 1-27-1998; Ord. 1524, passed 3-27-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1737
§10-207 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the city without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the city, any hut, shanty, hovel or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
§10-208 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE AND LOITERING.
   (A)   Illegal entrance generally. It is illegal for any person to enter upon
the property of another or into an area or structure on such property (whether
such property, area or structure is public or private), when such entrance is
plainly forbidden by signs or otherwise or when the property area or structure
is enclosed, except when such entrance is in line of duty, or with the
expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by
authority of law or ordinance.
   (B)   Trespassing prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person without
lawful reason to trespass upon or loiter on or about the premises of any public
or private school.
   (C)   Loitering prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall loiter on private property that is customarily used
by the public as an integral part of a commercial venture; nor is loitering
allowed in the following instances:
         (a)   In such a manner as to disturb the peace as defined by state law
or ordinance;
         (b)   In obstructing the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or
         (c)   Obstructing or interfering with any person lawfully seeking
access or the use of the commercial venture conducted on the property or
contiguous to said property.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), LOITERING is defined as
remaining stationary in one location, including walking around aimlessly, and
sitting or standing in or out of a motor vehicle; to stand or wait around idly
or without apparent purpose, or to linger or hang around in a public place or
business where one has no particular or legal purpose.
      (3)   No person shall be guilty of a violation of this division (C)
unless the property owner or tenant has posted “NO LOITERING” signs or other
notice of like meaning at the entrance or entrances to said property.
(Ord. 1315, passed 9-10-1991; Ord. 1847, passed 9-12-2023)
§10-209 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   (A)   No person may deposit, or cause to be deposited, in any street or
alley, any filth, garbage, ashes, rubbish, sweepings, paper, trash, leaves or
any other waste materials, junk, auto parts, iceboxes, refrigerators, boxes,
appliances, nor may any of the foregoing materials, other than ashes, soil,
leaves, refuse from building materials, such as plaster, brick and the like, or
other suitable materials, be placed or dumped on any lot within the city. It is
unlawful to place upon the sidewalks, alleys or streets any sweepings or trash
from stores or other buildings, or any leaves, yard cleanings, debris from
pruning or other refuse materials, except that materials designated by the City
Manager may be used for filling in places designated by him or her.
   (B)   No person as owner or occupant of any premises in the city shall
permit such premises to have any of the items prohibited in division (A) above
thereon.
§10-210 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property which is dedicated to public use and over which
the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof exercises
control.
   TRESPASS. Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
      (1)   TRESPASS shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises
by the owner, or the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful
possession of the premises.
      (2)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer; provided,
that the provisions of this sentence shall not apply to persons, including
employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a
person in lawful possession of such premises; nor shall the provisions of this
sentence apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such
premises.
      (3)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to private
property before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next
business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms
of this division (A).
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property.
§10-211 PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER PERSON OR BUSINESS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, parking area, yard or any
portion of the premises or property of another person or business, including,
but not limited to, any restaurant, gasoline/filling station or other business,
when the business is not open to the public for business without the expressed
or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge thereof, or when necessary in
the performance of a duty, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
Cross-reference:
   See also
Part 15, Chapter 7  of this code
§10-212 IMPROPER USE OF DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle onto the premises,
driveway or parking area of any place of business without purchasing or
attempting to purchase or obtain service or merchandise thereat. It shall be
considered a violation of this section to drive onto the premises without
stopping and requesting services or attempting to purchase merchandise;
provided nothing herein shall prohibit deliveries of material or merchandise to
the premises.
§10-213 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person except one duly authorized by the City
Water Superintendent or a member of the Fire Department to open, turn on or
off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any
fire hydrant belonging to the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct free access to any fire
hydrant in the city. The obstructions prohibited in this section include, but
are not limited to, those caused by placement of boxes, cartons or other
containers, or brick, lumber or dirt, near or around such hydrants, or the
growth of grass, weeds or plants near the fire hydrants.
Cross-reference:
   See also
Part 13, Chapter 2  of this code
§10-214 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADVERTISING. Any letter, word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message,
drawing, picture, writing or other mark of any kind lawfully placed on property
by an owner or occupant of the property or an agent of such owner or occupant,
for the purpose of promoting products or services or conveying information to
the public.
      APPLIES GRAFFITI, APPLY GRAFFITI or APPLYING GRAFFITI. The act of
drawing, painting, chiseling, scratching or etching graffiti on public or
private property within the city.
      GRAFFITI. Without limitation, any letter, word, name, number, symbol,
slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing or other mark of any kind visible to
the public that is drawn, painted, chiseled, scratched or etched on a rock,
tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building or other structure; provided,
however, that this definition shall not include advertising or any other
letter, word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing
or other mark of any kind lawfully placed on property by an owner of the
property, an occupant of the property or by an authorized agent for such owner
or occupant.
      OCCUPANT. Any person shown by the records of the County Clerk’s office as
a tenant of property, or any person in actual physical possession of property.
      OWNER. Any person shown by the records of the County Clerk’s office as
the owner of a fee simple interest in property.
   (B)   The Council hereby declares that graffiti on public or private
property within the city constitutes a public nuisance to the detriment of the
city and its inhabitants and visitors. The provisions for prevention of such
public nuisance are set forth in this section.
   (C)   No person shall apply graffiti to public or private property within
the city.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who applies graffiti to public or private property
within the city shall be deemed guilty of an offense. Each act of applying
graffiti shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person convicted of the offense of applying graffiti to public
or private property within the city shall be punished by a fine of not to
exceed $100 for the first offense, or $349 or imprisonment not to exceed 30
days, or both fine and imprisonment, for a second or subsequent offense.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 1390, passed 3-12-1996)
CHAPTER 3: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
Section
   
10-300   Second Amendment sanctuary city
   
10-301   Disturbing the peace
   
10-302   Public speaking or gatherings prohibited on streets or sidewalks,
permits
   
10-303   Insulting signs, literature or language
   
10-304   Fireworks restrictions; public displays; permits and bond
   
10-305   Storing or keeping explosives
   
10-306   Carrying weapons exceptions
   
10-307   Sale or furnishing of weapons to minors
   
10-308   Discharging weapons; throwing missiles
   
10-309   Reckless conduct
   
10-310   Loud noise or music, permit
   
10-311   Interference with radio and television reception prohibited
§10-300 SECOND AMENDMENT SANCTUARY CITY.
   (A)   Any federal, state or county act, law, executive order, court order,
rule, policy or regulation ordering the buy-back, confiscation or surrender of
firearms, firearm accessories or ammunition from law-abiding citizens of the
city is considered an infringement on the rights of the citizens of the city to
keep and bear arms as guaranteed by the Second Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States.
   (B)   All law enforcement officers, and any other department of the city,
which receives any such action described in division (A) above, shall, to the
fullest extent possible, take all measures to protect the Second Amendment
rights of the law-abiding citizens of the city.
(Ord. 1820, passed 5-11-2021)
§10-301 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or
not at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of three or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
§10-302 PUBLIC SPEAKING OR GATHERINGS PROHIBITED ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS,
PERMITS.
   It is unlawful for any person to hold or attempt to hold, or to conduct or
attempt to conduct, or to aid or abet in holding or conducting, any public
speaking, meeting or gathering of any kind whatsoever upon any street within
the city or upon the parking or sidewalks adjacent thereto, except pursuant to
a permit issued by the city.
§10-303 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the city to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the city, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive or insulting language or
literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
§10-304 FIREWORKS RESTRICTIONS; PUBLIC DISPLAYS; PERMITS AND BOND.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to
store, to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail or wholesale, possess
or use, explode or discharge any pop bottle rocket, roman candle or any other
type of fireworks within the city limits except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the
granting of permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by
associations, amusement parks and other organizations or group of individuals.
Such permits may be granted upon application to the Fire Chief and the filing
of a bond by the applicant as provided herein. Every such display shall be
handled by a competent and experienced operator approved by the Fire Chief and
shall be of such composition, character and so located, discharged or fired as
in the opinion of the Fire Chief, after proper inspection, shall not be
hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons.
   (C)   Application for permits shall be made in writing at least 30 days in
advance of the date of the display. After such privilege has been granted,
sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder shall be
transferable.
   (D)   The sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for display
purposes shall be conducted so as to be reasonably safe to persons and
property. Evidence that the sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks
for display purposes has been conducted in accordance with the applicable
standard specified for this section shall be evidence that such sale,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for display purposes provided
reasonable safety to persons and property.
   (E)   The Fire Chief shall require a bond from the permittee in a sum not
less than $1,000 conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (F)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any fact or omission on the part of such person, firm
or corporation or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character and
form as the Fire Chief determines to be necessary for the protection of the
public.
   (G)   Any fireworks that remain unfired after the display is concluded shall
be immediately disposed of in a way safe for the particular type of fireworks
remaining.
   (H)   The Fire Chief shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed at the
expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks offered or exposed for sale,
stored or held in violation of this section.
   (I)   For the purpose of this section, FIREWORKS shall be as defined in
state law, 68 O.S. § 1622.
§10-305 STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the city any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder or any other highly explosive material or
substance, except that gunpowder or black powder may be kept in quantities of
not to exceed five pounds where the same is securely kept.
§10-306 CARRYING WEAPONS EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, except those persons authorized by law,
to carry concealed upon or about his or her person any pistol, revolver or
firearm or any weapon of the kind usually known as air pistol or air gun, or
weapon of the kind usually known as slingshot, Bowie knife, dirk knife,
switchblade knife, spring type knife, knife having a blade which opens
automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in
the handle of the knife, loaded cane, billy, metal knuckles or any other
offensive or defensive weapon, except as may be otherwise authorized by state
law.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, persons shall be
permitted to carry within the city shotguns, rifles or air guns which are not
concealed, if unloaded, if within a reasonable time they are carried from the
city, or being carried for the purpose of having them repaired, or for the
purpose of using the same in a public muster or military drills, or for any
other purpose as may be authorized by state law or city ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-110 and 21 O.S. §§ 1272 and 1289.1 et
seq.
§10-307 SALE OR FURNISHING OF WEAPONS TO MINORS.
   It is unlawful for any person within the city to sell or give to any minor
any of the arms or weapons designated in §
10-306, in accordance with applicable state law.
§10-308 DISCHARGING WEAPONS; THROWING MISSILES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any species of firearms,
air pistol, air gun, slingshot or discharge a hand grenade, bomb or similar
device, or other weapon, or throw any missile within the city, except when
necessary for the protection of life or property or as authorized by the city
or state law.
   (B)   The prohibition of division (A) above shall not apply to a licensed
shooting gallery, or in common grounds or premises under circumstances which
such instrument can be fired, discharged or operated in such a manner as to not
endanger persons or property, and also in such a manner as to prevent the
projectile from traversing any ground or space outside the limits of such
gallery, grounds or residence. Nothing herein contained shall be in derogation
of the laws of the state as they now exist or as they may be hereinafter
amended.
(Ord. 1248, passed 10-22-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-110 and 21 O.S. § 1364
§10-309 RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in
his or her possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of
creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great
bodily harm to another and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety
of another person.
§10-310 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC, PERMIT.
   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person, firm or
corporation, either as principal, agent or employee, to play, use or operate
for advertising purposes, or for any other purpose whatsoever, except fixed
installations in churches, consisting of church chimes, on, above or upon the
public streets, alleys or thoroughfares in the city, any device known as a
sound truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph with a
loudspeaker or sound amplifier or any instrument known as a calliope or any
other instrument of any kind or character which emits therefrom any
unreasonable loud and raucous noises and is attached to, in, above and upon any
buildings, or vehicle operated or standing upon the streets or public places
without first having procured from the Chief of Police of the city a written
permit. The Chief of Police in granting his or her written permit to any
person, firm or corporation, shall be controlled and take into consideration
the period of time, place, use and purpose, volume of sound, the comfort,
safety, convenience, quietude and tranquility of the residents of the city.
§10-311 INTERFERENCE WITH RADIO AND TELEVISION RECEPTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation knowingly or
wantonly to operate or cause to be operated any machine, device, apparatus or
instrument of any kind whatsoever within the corporate limits of the city, the
operation of which shall cause reasonably preventable electrical interference
with radio or television reception within the limits of the city. X-ray
pictures, examination or treatments may be made at any time if the machine or
apparatus used therefor is properly equipped to avoid all unnecessary or
reasonably preventable interference with radio and television receptions and is
not negligently operated.
   (B)   This section shall not be held or construed to embrace or cover the
regulation of any transmitting, broadcasting or receiving instrument, apparatus
or device which is licensed or authorized by or under the provisions of any act
of the Congress of the United States.
CHAPTER 4: OFFENSES AGAINST THE HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
Section
   
10-401   Public intoxication and drinking prohibited
   
10-402   Marijuana prohibited
   
10-403   Drug paraphernalia
   
10-404   Prostitution
   
10-405   Disorderly house
   
10-406   Nudity, indecent exposure
   
10-407   Definitions; material harmful to minors
   
10-408   Display of material harmful to minors prohibited
   
10-409   Vagrancy defined for certain activities
   
10-410   Curfew for minors
   
10-411   Sleeping on the streets, depots
   
10-412   Begging prohibited
   
10-413   Gambling prohibited
   
10-414   Being about place where gambling is going on
   
10-415   Harmful deception
   
10-416   Defrauding hotels, restaurants
   
10-417   Prevention of youth access to tobacco and vapor products
   
10-418   Truancy
§10-401 PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley or other public place in the city in a state of intoxication. It is
unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or low point beer upon or
in any street, alley or other public place or in any public building within the
city. It is unlawful to use, sell or furnish to another any illegal drug or
narcotic in any place in the city except as legally prescribed by a physician.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a STATE OF INTOXICATION means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating,
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or low point beer or of any narcotic, to
such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full physical or mental
power.
Cross-reference:
   See also
Part 3  of this code
§10-402 MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
      (2)   To use, have or possess marijuana, excluding medical marijuana, as
provided for in
Part 8, Chapter 7 of this code, upon or in any street, alley, place of business
or other public place within the city;
      (3)   To use marijuana in any place within the city except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state; or
      (4)   To loiter about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished
illegally.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, MARIJUANA means all parts of the
plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin
extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin but shall
not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks,
oil or cake made from the derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature
stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a valid medical marijuana patient license holder:
      (1)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana; and/or
      (2)   To use marijuana in or at any city owned property as defined in §§
8-601 et seq.
(Ord. 1814, passed 10-27-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq.
§10-403 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means all
equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use
or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of the State Uniform Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq., hereinafter referred to as
“the Act” and adopted by reference herein. It includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use
in identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
         (e)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, containers and other objects used,
intended for use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled
substances into the human body; and
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            5.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs;
            13.   Ice pipes or chiller;
            14.   All hidden or novelty pipes; and
            15.   Any pipe that has a tobacco bowl or chamber of less than one-
half inch in diameter in which there is any detectable residue of any
controlled dangerous substance as defined in 63 O.S. § 2-101 or any other
substances not legal for possession or use.
      (2)   Provided, however, the term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA shall not include
paraphernalia used or designed for use in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing medical marijuana, nor shall it include separation gins intended
for use in preparing tea or spice, clamps used for constructing electrical
equipment, water pipes designed for ornamentation in which no detectable amount
of an illegal substance is found or pipes designed and used solely for smoking
tobacco, traditional pipes of an American Indian tribal religious ceremony or
antique pipes that are 30 years of age or older.
   (B)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the Act;
      (4)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
      (6)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intended to use the object to facilitate a violation
of the Act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object,
as to a direct violation of the Act shall not prevent a finding that the object
is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (7)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (9)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its use; and
      (15)   Whether or not the person possesses a valid state issued medical
marijuana license and/or permit.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, except those possessing a valid state
issued medical marijuana license and/or permit, to use or to possess with
intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
the Act.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person, except those possessing a valid state
issued medical marijuana license and/or permit, to deliver, possess with intent
to deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing
or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used
to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Act.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill or other publication any advertisement, knowing or under circumstances
where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in
whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended for
use as drug paraphernalia.
(Ord. 1814, passed 10-27-2020)
§10-404 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution;
      (6)   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act of prostitution;
      (7)   Be a party to an act of prostitution;
      (8)   Reside in, enter or remain in any house, place, building or other
structure, or to enter or remain in any vehicle, trailer or other conveyance
with the intent of committing an act of prostitution, lewdness or assignation;
or
      (9)   Aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts prohibited
in division (A)(1) through (A)(8) above.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
§10-405 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a DISORDERLY HOUSE means any
structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of
the public is disturbed by reason of the people therein committing or resorting
to any of the following acts:
      (1)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      (2)   The violation of any of the ordinances of this city or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
      (3)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or city ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; or
      (4)   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   (B)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
   (C)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or otherwise
permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly house,
and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into or remain in a
disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the city
shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not
by circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or
officers in the discharge of their professional or official duties.
§10-406 NUDITY, INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity; or
   (B)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1021
§10-407 DEFINITIONS; MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS.
   For the purpose of this section and §
10-408, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A REASONABLE BONA FIDE ATTEMPT. An attempt to ascertain the true age of the
minor by requiring production of a driver’s license, marriage license, birth
certificate or other governmental or educational identification card or paper
and not relying solely on the oral allegations or apparent age of the minor.
   HARMFUL TO MINORS. The quality of any description, exhibition, presentation
or representation, in whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual
excitement or sadomasochistic abuse when the material or performance, taken as
a whole, has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The average adult person applying contemporary community standards
would find that the material or performance has a predominant tendency to
appeal to a prurient interest in sex to minors;
      (2)   The average adult person applying contemporary community standards
would find that the material or performance depicts or describes nudity, sexual
conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic abuse in a manner that is
patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community with respect
to what is suitable for minors; and
      (3)   The material or performance lacks serious literary, scientific,
artistic or political value for minors.
   KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
grounds for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both:
      (1)   The character and content of any material or performance which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
      (2)   The age of the minor; however, an honest mistake shall constitute
an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a reasonable bona fide
attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, record or recording tape,
videotape.
   MINOR. Any unmarried person under the age of 18 years.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering; the showing of the female
breast with less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple; or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, film, videotape, played record, phonograph
or tape, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance or other exhibition
performed or presented to or before an audience of one or more, with or without
consideration.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or other legal
entity of any kind.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse or
physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or if such person be a female, breast.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
(Ord. 1252, passed 7-8-1986)
§10-408 DISPLAY OF MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly:
   (A)   (1)   Display material which is harmful to minors in such a way that
minors, as a part of the invited general public, will be exposed to view such
material.
      (2)   A person shall be deemed not to have displayed material harmful to
minors if the material is kept behind devices commonly known as blinder racks
so that the lower two-thirds of the material is not exposed to view;
   (B)   Sell, furnish, present, distribute, allow to view or otherwise
disseminate to a minor, with or without consideration, any material which is
harmful to minors;
   (C)   Present to a minor or participate in presenting to a minor, with or
without consideration, any performance which is harmful to a minor; or
   (D)   It shall be an affirmative defense to any prosecution under this
chapter that: the material or performance involved was displayed, presented or
disseminated to a minor at a recognized and established school, church, museum,
medical clinic, hospital, public library, governmental agency, quasi-
governmental agency and persons acting in their capacity as employees or agents
of such persons or organizations and which institution displays, presents or
disseminates such material or performance for a bona fide governmental,
educational or scientific purpose.
(Ord. 1252, passed 7-8-1986)
§10-409 VAGRANCY DEFINED FOR CERTAIN ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, VAGRANT means any person who loiters
or remains in, or wanders about, a public or private place for any of the
following purposes:
      (1)   Gambling with cards, dice or other gambling paraphernalia;
      (2)   Engaging in prostitution or soliciting prostitution or soliciting
for an act of lewdness;
      (3)   Engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any building, property
or automobile of another;
      (4)   Injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any property of
another;
      (5)   Assaulting any person;
      (6)   Begging or soliciting alms, provided that this section shall not
apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious, charitable or
eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such organizations; or
      (7)   Selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise exchanging, procuring or
making available illegal drugs or contraband.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-123
§10-410 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS. 12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday or Friday; and 1:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or
Sunday.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a juvenile; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed
by a court.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 18 years of age.
      KNOWINGLY PERMIT. The parent, other responsible adult or operator, as
defined herein, is aware of the fact the juvenile is in violation of the curfew
hours or that the person by exercise of reasonable care would have known that
the juvenile is in violation of the curfew hours.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent,
or stepparent of another person.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and retail establishments.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   To linger or stay; or
         (b)   To fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      RESPONSIBLE ADULT. Any person having, assuming or charged with permanent
or temporary care or custody of a juvenile, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Any legal guardian or adult exercising legal guardianship over a
juvenile;
         (b)   An adult who stands in loco parentis to a juvenile;
         (c)   Any person to whom legal custody of a juvenile has been given by
order of a court;
         (d)   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care or
custody of a juvenile at the request of or on behalf of a parent, guardian,
loco parentis or person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a
court; and
         (e)   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care or
custody of a juvenile at the requests of or on behalf of another person.
   (B)   The following are offenses against the city:
      (1)   A juvenile commits an offense if he or she remains in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the corporate city limits
of the city during curfew hours; or
      (2)   A parent or other responsible adult of a juvenile commits an
offense if:
         (a)   He or she knowingly permits or allows the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the corporate
city limits of the city during curfew hours; or
         (b)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits
an offense if he or she knowingly permits or allows a juvenile to remain upon
the premises of the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   The following defenses are provided:
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) above that the
juvenile was at the time in question:
         (a)   Accompanied by the juvenile’s parent or responsible adult;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the juvenile’s parent or
responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the juvenile’s residence or abutting
the residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the juvenile’s presence;
         (g)   Attending, going to or returning home, without any detour or
stop, from an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults or an event sponsored by the city, a civic organization or
another similar entity that takes responsibility for the juvenile; or
         (h)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) above that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that based on any response and other circumstances, no defense to
division (B) above is present.
   (E)   Absent an interlocal agreement with the district court for the
municipal court to exercise jurisdiction over juveniles under 18 years of age
under division (C) above pursuant to 10A O.S. § 2-2-102, the municipal court
must refer all alleged juvenile violations to the Juvenile Bureau of the
District Attorney’s office.
   (F)   The following penalties are established.
      (1)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter under division
(B)(1) above is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day
during which the violation is committed, continued or permitted. Each offense,
upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $149 plus costs. The
court may require community service work prescribed by the court in lieu of a
fine if the product of multiplying the number of minimum hours of community
service work by the prevailing wage does not result in a number which exceeds
the maximum fine authorized by law. The court shall make the parent or other
responsible adult responsible for payment of such fines and costs in the event
they are not paid by the juvenile. The parent or responsible adult will be
subject to the contempt powers of the court for failure to pay such fine and
costs.
      (2)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter under division
(B)(2) above is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day
during which the violation is committed, continued or permitted. Each offense,
upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $149 plus costs, or a
jail sentence not to exceed 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
      (3)   The municipal court’s jurisdiction over a juvenile who violates
division (B) above shall be expressly subject to 10 O.S. and 10A O.S., as
amended by the 2009 session of the state legislature.
      (4)   Any law enforcement officer who shall witness a violation of this
section may take such offender into his or her custody to be prosecuted for
such violation, require the posting of a sufficient bond for such minor’s
appearance in court, or may place the minor in the custody of his or her
parents or some responsible person.
(Ord. 1358, passed 8-23-1994)
§10-411 SLEEPING ON THE STREETS, DEPOTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and sunrise,
to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any property of
another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge
of such place.
§10-412 BEGGING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
§10-413 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      (1)   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      (2)   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      (3)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      (4)   To knowingly permit his or her or its premises, houses, lot or
other property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful
in this section.
   (B)   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to play
any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein the
element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks or
any other representatives of value.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to lawful activities permitted pursuant
to the State Horse Racing Act, being 3A O.S. §§ 200 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-108 and 21 O.S. §§ 941 et seq.
§10-414 BEING ABOUT PLACE WHERE GAMBLING IS GOING ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to loiter about in the immediate vicinity
where a person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a
slot machine or other device, or otherwise.
§10-415 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
§10-416 DEFRAUDING HOTELS, RESTAURANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to obtain food, lodging or other
accommodations at any restaurant, hotel, inn, boarding or rooming house, with
intent not to pay for the same or with intent to defraud the owner or keeper
thereof.
§10-417 PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust
or association, however formed.
      PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only, or
other generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual
as 21 years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
      SAMPLE. A tobacco or vapor product distributed to members of the public
at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
      SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a
public place.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption.
      TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver’s license or other government
issued photo identification.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s license or other government issued photo identification.
      VAPOR PRODUCT.
      (1)   Any noncombustible products, that may or may not contain nicotine,
that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit or other
mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce a vapor in
a solution or other form.
      (2)   VAPOR PRODUCTS shall include any vapor cartridge or other container
with or without nicotine or other form that is intended to be used with an
electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe
or similar product or device and any vapor cartridge or other container of a
solution, that may or may not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used
with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo or
electronic device.
   (B)   Furnishing of tobacco and vapor products to minors prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish in any manner any
tobacco or vapor product to another person who is under 21 years of age, or to
purchase in any manner a tobacco or vapor product on behalf of any such person.
      (2)   It shall not be unlawful for an employee under 21 years of age to
handle tobacco or vapor products when required in the performance of the
employee’s duties.
      (3)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco or vapor
products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if
an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the
prospective purchaser may be under 21 years of age.
      (4)   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco or
vapor products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient who is not under 21 years of age, the failure to subsequently require
proof of age shall not constitute a violation of division (B)(3) above.
      (5)   If a sale is made in violation of this section by an employee of
the owner of a store at which tobacco or vapor products are sold at retail, the
employee shall be guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine.
      (6)   If a sale is made in violation of this section by an employee who
has previously been twice found to be in violation of this division (B), the
owner of the store, if the owner knew of the employee’s previous violations,
shall also be found to be in violation and shall be subject to an identical
fine.
      (7)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
division (B).
      (8)   For the purposes of determining liability of a person controlling
franchises or business operations in multiple locations for any violation of
divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above, each individual business franchise or
business location shall be deemed a separate entity.
      (9)   Any person who shall violate this division (B) shall be guilty of
an offense and upon conviction thereof may be assessed a fine of not more than
$100 plus costs, fees and assessments for the first offense within a one-year
period.
      (10)   Any person who shall violate this division (B) shall be guilty of
an offense and upon conviction thereof may be assessed a fine of not more than
$200 plus costs, fees and assessments for the second or subsequent offense
within a two-year period.
      (11)   Upon failure of any person to pay any fine authorized by this
division (B) within 90 days of the assessment of such fine, the court clerk
shall notify the State Department of Public Safety as the Department is
authorized to suspend or not issue a driver’s license to the person until proof
of payment has been provided.
   (C)   Purchase, receipt or possession of tobacco or vapor products by minors
prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided under division (B) above, it shall be unlawful
for a person who is under 21 years of age to purchase, receive or have in their
possession a tobacco or vapor product, or to present or offer to any person any
purported proof of age which is false or fraudulent, for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving any tobacco or vapor product.
      (2)   Upon conviction of an individual for an offense under division (C)
(1) above, the court may:
         (a)   Impose a fine not to exceed $149 plus costs, fees and
assessments for a first offense;
         (b)   Impose a fine of up to $200 plus costs, fees and assessments for
a second or subsequent offense within a two-year period following the first
offense; or
         (c)   Upon failure of the defendant to pay any fine authorized by this
division (C) within 90 days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the
court clerk shall notify the Department of Public Safety, as such Department is
authorized to suspend or not issue a driver’s license to the person until the
required evidence or proof of payment has been provided.
   (D)   Distribution of tobacco or vapor product samples restricted.
      (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute tobacco or
vapor product samples to any person under 21 years of age.
         (b)   Notwithstanding division (D)(1)(a) above, no person shall
distribute tobacco or vapor product samples in or on any public street,
sidewalk or park that is within 300 feet of any playground, school or other
facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons under 21 years of
age.
         (c)   Any person who violates divisions (D)(1)(a) or (D)(1)(b) above
shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof may be assessed a
fine of not to exceed $100, plus costs, fees and assessments for the first
offense.
      (2)   (a)   Any person who violates divisions (D)(1)(a) or (D)(1)(b)
above shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof may be assessed
a fine of not more than $200 plus costs, fees and assessments for second or
subsequent offenses within a one-year period.
         (b)   Upon failure of an individual to pay any fine assessed pursuant
to this division (D) within 90 days of the assessment of such fine, the court
clerk shall notify the Department of Public Safety, as the Department is
authorized to suspend or not issue a driver’s license to the person until proof
of payment has been provided.
   (E)   Sale of tobacco except in original, sealed packaging prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the
original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
      (2)   Any person who violates division (E)(1) above shall be guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof may be assessed a fine not to exceed $200
for each offense.
   (F)   Reporting. The City Clerk shall furnish any information or reports
required of or requested by the State Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
(ABLE) Commission in the form, manner and time as may be determined by the ABLE
Commission.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-13-2018; Ord. 1842, passed 6-27-2023)
§10-418 TRUANCY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person
having custody of a child who is over the age of five years, and under the age
of 18 years, to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child to attend and
comply with the rules of some public, private or other school, unless other
means of education are provided for the full term the schools of the district
are in session or the child is excused as provided in this section.
      (2)   One-half day of kindergarten shall be required of all children five
years of age or older unless the child is excused from kindergarten attendance
as provided in this section. A child who is five years of age shall be excused
from kindergarten attendance until the next school year after the child is six
years of age if a parent, guardian or other person having custody of the child
notifies the superintendent of the district where the child is a resident by
certified mail prior to enrollment in kindergarten, or at any time during the
first school year that the child is required to attend kindergarten pursuant to
this section, of election to withhold the child from kindergarten until the
next school year after the child is six years of age.
      (3)   A kindergarten program shall be directed toward developmentally
appropriate objectives for such children. The program shall require that any
teacher employed on and after January 1, 1993, to teach a kindergarten program
within the public school system shall be certified in early childhood
education. All teachers hired to teach a kindergarten program within the public
school system prior to January 1, 1993, shall be required to obtain
certification in early childhood education on or before the 1996-97 school year
in order to continue to teach a kindergarten program.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of 12 years and
under the age of 18 years, and who has not finished four years of high school
work, to neglect or refuse to attend and comply with the rules of some public,
private or other school, or receive an education by other means for the full
term the schools of the district are in session; provided, that this section
shall not apply:
      (1)   If any child is prevented from attending school by reason of mental
or physical disability, to be determined by the Board of Education of the
district upon a certificate of the school physician or public health physician,
or, if no such physician is available, a duly licensed and practicing
physician;
      (2)   If any child is excused from attendance at school, due to an
emergency, by the principal teacher of the school in which such child is
enrolled, at the request of the parent, guardian, custodian or other person
having control of such child;
      (3)   If any child who has attained his or her sixteenth birthday is
excused from attending school by written, joint agreement between:
         (a)   The school administrator of the school district where the child
attends school; and
         (b)   The parent, guardian or custodian of the child. Provided,
further, that no child shall be excused from attending school by such joint
agreement between a school administrator and the parent, guardian or custodian
of the child unless and until it has been determined that such action is for
the best interest of the child and/or the community, and that said child shall
thereafter be under the supervision of the parent, guardian or custodian until
the child has reached the age of 18 years.
      (4)   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
observing religious holy days if before the absence, the parent, guardian or
person having custody or control of the student submits a written request for
the excused absence. The school district shall excuse a student pursuant to
this division (B)(4) for the days on which the religious holy days are observed
and for the days on which the student must travel to and from the site where
the student will observe the holy days; or
      (5)   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
participating in a military funeral honors ceremony upon approval of the school
principal.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the attendance officer to enforce the
provisions of this section. In the prosecution of a parent, guardian or other
person having custody of a child for violation of any provision of this
section, it shall be an affirmative defense that the parent, guardian or other
person having custody of the child has made substantial and reasonable efforts
to comply with the compulsory attendance requirements of this section but is
unable to cause the child to attend school. If the court determines the
affirmative defense is valid, it shall dismiss the complaint against the
parent, guardian or other person having custody of the child and shall notify
the school attendance officer who shall refer the child to the District
Attorney for the county in which the child resides for the filing of a child in
need of supervision petition against the child pursuant to the State Juvenile
Code.
   (D)   (1)   Any parent, guardian, custodian or other person violating any of
the provisions of this section, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   For the first offense, a fine of not less than $25 nor more than
$50 or imprisonment for not more than five days, or both such fine and
imprisonment;
         (b)   For the second offense, a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $100 or imprisonment for not more than ten days, or both such fine and
imprisonment; and
         (c)   For the third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than
$100 nor more than $250, or imprisonment for not more than 15 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Each day the child remains out of school after the oral and
documented or written warning has been given to the parent, guardian,
custodian, child or other person, or the child has been ordered to school by
the juvenile court shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of
this section, the attendance records of the child or ward may be presented in
court by any authorized employee of the school district.
   (F)   The court may order the parent, guardian or other person having
custody of the child to perform community service in lieu of the fine set forth
in this section. The court may require that all or part of the community
service be performed for a public school district.
   (G)   The court may order as a condition of a deferred sentence or as a
condition of sentence upon conviction of the parent, guardian or other person
having custody of the child any conditions as the court considers necessary to
obtain compliance with school attendance requirements. The conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Verifying attendance of the child with the school;
      (2)   Attending meetings with school officials;
      (3)   Taking the child to school;
      (4)   Taking the child to the bus stop;
      (5)   Attending school with the child;
      (6)   Undergoing an evaluation for drug, alcohol or other substance abuse
and following the recommendations of the evaluator; and
      (7)   Taking the child for drug, alcohol or other substance abuse
evaluation and following the recommendations of the evaluator, unless excused
by the court.
   (H)   It is understood that the municipal court may enforce this section
only after the judge of the district court of the county, having jurisdiction
of juvenile matters, executes an agreement allowing the municipal judge to
prosecute the matters contained herein. Said agreement shall be approved by the
Mayor of the city upon legislative action of the City Council.
   (I)   The enforcement of this section shall be limited to a first offense
only; any subsequent offense shall be referred to the district attorney of the
county for further action or prosecution.
   (J)   A city police officer may accompany the “attendance officer” working
under the supervision of the school superintendent or the superintendent’s
designated representative to the location where the truant child resides or to
the home of the parent, guardian or custodian of the child when requested by
said attendance officer.
   (K)   The attendance officer may sign and the court will accept a citation
using the state uniform violation complaint.
(Ord. 1701, passed 10-11-2011)
CHAPTER 5: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
10-501   Assault and battery prohibited
§10-501 ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence
to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 641, 642 and 644
CHAPTER 6: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
10-601   Resisting a police officer
   
10-602   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
10-603   Assault or battery upon police or other law officer
   
10-604   Rescuing prisoners
   
10-605   Escape of prisoners
   
10-606   Assisting escape of prisoners
   
10-607   Unlawful communication with prisoners
   
10-608   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
10-609   False alarms
   
10-610   False representation to an officer
   
10-611   Removal of barricades
   
10-612   Resisting public officials
   
10-613   Eluding police officer
§10-601 RESISTING A POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with a police officer or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his or her official
duties within the limits of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION OF. In addition to the common meaning, includes:
         (a)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
         (b)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
         (c)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make
his or her identity known to the arresting officer.
      RESISTING AN OFFICER. The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his or her official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   It is unlawful to resist a police officer in the performance of their
duties by any willful and unlawful attempt with force or violence to do a
corporeal hurt to the officer(s), or by any threatening gesture showing in
itself, or by words accompanying it, sufficient to cause a well-founded
apprehension of immediate peril. It is unlawful for any person, or combination
of persons, to resist the execution of any legal process; this includes
releasing or failing to control an animal at the time legal process is being
executed.
   (E)   It is unlawful to resist a police officer in the performance of their
duties by any willful and unlawful attempt with force or violence to do a
corporeal hurt to the officer(s), or by any threatening gesture showing in
itself, or by words accompanying it, sufficient to cause a well-founded
apprehension of immediate peril.
   (F)   It is unlawful for any person, or combination of persons, to resist
the execution of any legal process; this includes releasing or failing to
control an animal at the time legal process is being executed.
(Ord. 1849, passed 9-12-2023)
§10-602 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   An officer of the city making or about to make an arrest, or executing or
about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the ordinances
of the city or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to suppress a
riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons to assist
him or her in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such
riot, affray or unlawful assembly. It is unlawful for any person lawfully
called upon thus to assist an officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so.
§10-603 ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, without justifiable or excusable cause, to
knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and battery upon the person of
a police officer or other officer of the law while in the performance of his or
her duties.
§10-604 RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, by use of force or in any other illegal
manner, to set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner
from any officer or employee of the city having legal custody of such prisoner
or from jail or other place of confinement by the city. It is unlawful to
assist such prisoner in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either
before or after conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
§10-605 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in jail or other place of confinement
by the city, or working upon the streets or other public places of the city in
pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by authority of
the city, to break or attempt to break from any such jail, prison or custody,
or to escape or attempt to escape therefrom.
§10-606 ASSISTING ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, by use of force or in any other illegal
manner, to set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any
prisoner from any officer or employee of the city having legal custody of such
prisoner or from jail or other place of confinement by the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to convey into jail or other city prison
any instrument or other thing useful to facilitate the escape of any prisoner
therein, or to give any such instrument or thing to a prisoner in custody or in
prison, whether such escape is effected or attempted or not.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 437, 441 and 521
§10-607 UNLAWFUL COMMUNICATION WITH PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to loiter about jail or any other city prison
with intent to communicate unlawfully with any prisoner confined therein, or to
communicate or attempt to communicate unlawfully with any prisoner confined in
such jail or prison or held in legal custody.
§10-608 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
city or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers
of an officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1533
§10-609 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
or unnecessary run to any part of the city or outside the city.
§10-610 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the city government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the city.
§10-611 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
§10-612 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
§10-613 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual
and audible signal, a red light and a siren from a police officer driving a
motor vehicle showing the same to be an official
police car, directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, and
who willfully increases his or her speed or extinguishes his or her lights in
an attempt to elude such police officer, or who does elude such police officer.
CHAPTER 7: PENALTIES
Section
   
10-701   General penalties
§10-701 GENERAL PENALTIES.
   Any violation of the provisions of this part is punishable as provided in §
1-108.
PART 11: PARKS, RECREATION AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS
Chapter
   
1.    CEMETERY
   
2.    LAKE COMMISSION
   
3.    VEHICULAR TRAFFIC IN PARKS
   
4.    PENALTY
   
5.    HIGHER EDUCATION COMPLEX COMMISSION
   
6.    PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
CHAPTER 1: CEMETERY
Section
   
11-101   Cemetery Department
   
11-102   Cemetery Superintendent; duties
   
11-103   Plat of cemetery lots
   
11-104   Burial records
   
11-105   Cemetery property prices
   
11-106   Cemetery service fees
   
11-107   Survey in proper subdivision, lots and blocks
   
11-108   Sale of partial lots
   
11-109   Sale of alleys
   
11-110   Cemetery Care Fund
   
11-111   Rules and regulations for cemeteries, cemetery operations
   
11-112   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 26-101 et seq.
§11-101 CEMETERY DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is a Cemetery Department, the head of which shall be the
Cemetery Superintendent, appointed by the City Manager for an indefinite term.
The Superintendent shall supervise and manage the Cemetery Department.
   (B)   It is the duty of the Cemetery Department to have charge of, control,
maintain and improve the city cemeteries.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-102 CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES.
   The Cemetery Superintendent, subject to the supervision and control of the
City Manager, shall:
   (A)   Have charge of and supervision of grounds owned by the city which are
used for burial purposes;
   (B)   Endeavor to preserve the city cemetery from trespass by persons or
animals; use reasonable diligence to prevent injury to monuments, stones,
graves, fences, trees, shrubs, flowers and other improvements placed on or
about the premises of the city cemeteries; shall arrange for the cutting and
mowing of the grass and weeds, the cutting and removal of grass and weeds from
the walks, drives, lots, plots and spaces; removal of all surplus dirt and
rubbish, plant and care for trees and shrubs as required by the City Manager
and Council; and maintain buildings connected with the cemetery and keep on
hand a sufficient quantity of tools for all required duties; and
   (C)   Have exclusive authority for the excavation and digging of graves
within the cemetery enclosures and it is unlawful for any person to excavate or
dig graves therein except with written consent of the Cemetery Superintendent
duly approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-103 PLAT OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall maintain in that office a plat of all
cemetery lots, plots and spaces, which plat shall be kept current at all times
and shall show the lots, plots and spaces. He or she shall receive the proceeds
from the sale of any lot, plot or space and submit a report to the Council. He
or she shall maintain a record showing the names of persons entitled to deeds
to lots or plots, which record must show the Treasurer’s receipt for the full
amount due to the city as shown by the record.
   (B)   Upon payment of the consideration for lots and plots as established by
Council, the Mayor shall execute a deed to be duly attested by the City Clerk
to the purchaser of the lot or plot. It is unlawful to issue any certificate or
deed until full payment has been made.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-104 BURIAL RECORDS.
   (A)   The Cemetery Superintendent shall maintain an accurate record of all
burials in the city cemetery. This record shall be kept in a book furnished by
the city and shall show the name, age, date of death and date of interment of
each body.
   (B)   The Cemetery Superintendent shall require before interring any body
the necessary evidence that the body is entitled to be interred in a particular
burial space.
   (C)   The Cemetery Superintendent shall appropriately mark each grave space
where a body is interred as necessary for purposes of identification.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-105 CEMETERY PROPERTY PRICES.
   The city shall charge the prices for the properties in the Duncan Cemetery
and the Henderson-Harris Cemetery as set by the Council from time to time by
motion or resolution.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-106 CEMETERY SERVICE FEES.
   The city shall charge the fees for services rendered in conjunction with
cemetery operations as set by the Council from time to time by motion or
resolution:
   (A)   Grave opening and closing, infant services and cremations;
   (B)   Disinterments; and
   (C)   Monument fees.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-107 SURVEY IN PROPER SUBDIVISION, LOTS AND BLOCKS.
   The Council shall cause all parcels of land required by it for cemetery
purposes to be surveyed and platted into proper subdivisions, lots and blocks
for burial purposes and designate all lots, blocks and subdivisions of the
cemetery in such a manner that the designation by lot or block will be
sufficient to identify the description of any parcel of land used for purposes
herein prescribed.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-108 SALE OF PARTIAL LOTS.
   The sale of partial lots, consisting of one or more grave spaces or plots,
shall be allowed; provided, that the Cemetery Superintendent shall, with the
approval of the City Council, designate those sections and lots within the
cemetery where the sale of partial lots shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-109 SALE OF ALLEYS.
   The owner of two or more burial spaces on each side of an east-west alley
may purchase the alley separating such spaces in order to incorporate the alley
into a unified plot where the Cemetery Superintendent finds that the alley is
not necessary for the operation or maintenance of the cemetery. Upon approval
of the Cemetery Superintendent, the alley shall be designated as the next
higher space number for the block adjacent thereto, for record purposes and the
deed shall include reference to the former alley between the two adjacent lots.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-110 CEMETERY CARE FUND.
   Twenty-five percent of all money received from the sale of lots and charges
for interments, shall be segregated and the same set aside as a permanent fund
to be known as “care fund” of the city cemetery; such fund to be invested in
approved securities in conformity with the laws of the state, and the interest
from the fund may be used in improving, caring for and embellishing the
grounds, walks, drives, parks and other necessary improvements of the city
cemetery.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-111 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CEMETERIES, CEMETERY OPERATIONS.
   The City Council from time to time by motion or resolution may adopt rules
and regulations governing the cemetery. A copy of such rules and regulations,
as amended from time to time, shall be kept in the Clerk’s office. Any
violation of the rules or regulations shall be punishable as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
§11-112 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1464, passed 7-14-1998)
CHAPTER 2: LAKE COMMISSION
Section
   
11-201   Commission established
   
11-202   Election of officers
   
11-203   Notice of meetings
   
11-204   Attendance
   
11-205   Residency
   
11-206   Resignation
   
11-207   Duties
   
11-208   Rules adopted by Lake Commission
   
11-209   Water Districts, state rules adopted
§11-201 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Lake Commission consisting of five
members, appointed by the City Manager for staggered terms of five years each.
   (B)   The term of one member shall begin at 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in
May of each year.
(Ord. 1658, passed 10-9-2007)
§11-202 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   Every year at the time prescribed for the commencement of terms, or as soon
as practicable, the Commission shall elect a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and
a secretary to serve for a term of one year. The secretary need not be a member
of the Commission.
(Ord. 1496, passed 1-11-2000)
§11-203 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall determine the time and place of its meetings and
the Chairperson, the City Manager or his or her designee, or any three members
can call special meetings. The Commission may cancel the meetings upon
sufficient notice.
   (B)   Lake Commission meetings shall follow the requirements of the Open
Meeting Act, 25 O.S. §§ 301 through 304. Public notice of the date, time, place
and agenda for the meetings shall be given in writing to the City Clerk and
posted in prominent public view at City Hall.
(Ord. 1496, passed 1-11-2000)
§11-204 ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   The secretary shall provide to the City Manager, by report on a
semiannual basis, the attendance records of the voting members.
   (B)   Any voting member who has more than 50% absences from regular meetings
held during a six-month period shall be subject to removal. Upon removal, a
successor member shall then be selected by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1496, passed 1-11-2000)
§11-205 RESIDENCY.
   (A)   A Commission member, during his or her tenure on the Commission, shall
reside within the city. If a Commission member moves outside of the city
limits, his or her tenure will end by operation of this chapter and a successor
shall then be selected by the City Manager.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, CITY shall mean within the city
limits as set forth in the latest annexation ordinance, including all city
owned lake property.
(Ord. 1496, passed 1-11-2000)
§11-206 RESIGNATION.
   Any member may resign by filing a written resignation with the Chairperson
to be forwarded to the City Manager with request for a new appointment.
(Ord. 1496, passed 1-11-2000)
§11-207 DUTIES.
   The Commission shall make recommendations on the control, maintenance,
improvements and operation of the city lake areas and districts, to the
Utilities Authority.
(Ord. 1496, passed 1-11-2000)
§11-208 RULES ADOPTED BY LAKE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Lake Commission shall be vested with the power to make
recommendations to the City Council on matters dealing with making, adopting,
amending or modifying rules and regulations governing boating, fishing, skiing,
camping, concessions, cabins and the use of the lake properties.
   (B)   After approval by majority vote of the City Council, the rules and
regulations shall have the same force and effect as an ordinance of the city.
Any violation of the rules and regulations shall be punishable as provided by §
1-108.
   (C)   Administration of the rules and regulations shall be the
responsibility of the City Manager or his or her designated representative.
(Ord. 1496, passed 1-11-2000)
§11-209 WATER DISTRICTS, STATE RULES ADOPTED.
   The rules and regulations issued by the State Department of Health, State
Department of Environmental Quality and State Water Resources Board governing
water districts, as amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference for the city, its designated water districts and lake
areas. Any violation of such rules shall be punishable as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1496, passed 1-11-2000)
CHAPTER 3: VEHICULAR TRAFFIC IN PARKS
Section
   
11-301   Definitions
   
11-302   Regulations
§11-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
area owned or used by the city.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor powered, animal drawn or
self-propelled. The term shall include any trailer in tow of any size, kind or
description. Exception is made for baby carriages and vehicles in service of
the city parks.
§11-302 REGULATIONS.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Fail to comply with all the applicable provisions of the municipal
motor vehicles traffic laws or the state motor vehicles traffic laws in regard
to equipment and operation of vehicles, together with such regulations as are
contained in this chapter;
   (B)   Drive any motor propelled vehicle to include off-road vehicles
regardless of the number of wheels, on any area except park roads, paved or
unpaved, or parking areas or such other areas as may be designated for
vehicular traffic by the City Council and such use shall be in compliance with
division (A) above; or
   (C)   Ride a bicycle on other than a paved vehicular road or path designated
for that purpose. A bicyclist shall be permitted to wheel or push a bicycle by
hand over any grassy area or wooded trail or on any paved area reserved for
pedestrian use.
(Ord. 1303, passed 7-24-1990)
CHAPTER 4: PENALTY
Section
   
11-401   Penalty
§11-401 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this part, or
violating any rule or regulation adopted by the Council by the Fish and Game
Commission, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished as provided in §
1-108.
CHAPTER 5: HIGHER EDUCATION COMPLEX COMMISSION
Section
   
11-501   Commission established
   
11-502   Appointment and terms
   
11-503   Duties and responsibilities
   
11-504   Ratification by City Council
§11-501 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a City Higher Education Complex Commission
consisting of five voting members to be recommended by the Chairperson. The
Trustees of the Authority shall confirm the Chairperson’s recommendations. The
Commissioners shall be appointed for overlapping two-year terms and serve until
their respective successors have been appointed and qualified. The
Commissioners shall not serve more than three consecutive terms.
   (B)   Three ex officio members (nonvoting) shall be on the Commission. These
members shall represent the city’s public schools, Cameron University, Red-
River Technology Center and shall be appointed by the respective entities.
   (C)   Additionally, liaison officials from the Authority and Cameron
University may be utilized and designated by these respective entities.
(Ord. 1356, passed 8-9-1994)
§11-502 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   The Commissioners shall assume their duties upon appointment. However, at
the time of initial appointment, the Chairperson of the Authority shall
identify those Commission seats which will first become vacant. The successor
term of the three Commissioners first appointed shall begin at 7:30 p.m. on the
first Monday of September 1995, the successor terms of two Commissioners first
appointed shall begin at 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in September 1996:
   (A)   Each Commissioner shall then serve a term of two years;
   (B)   Every year, at a time prescribed for the beginning of the term of a
new member or members or as soon thereafter as practicable, the Commission
shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. The Commission shall utilize
the city’s higher education complex as its meeting place and determine the time
as appropriate. The Chairperson of the Authority, the Chairperson of the
Commission or any three voting members may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The manner of conducting business shall be determined by the voting
members. However, the Commission shall at all times comply with the guidelines
of the Open Meeting Act even if not required by state law;
   (D)   The Chairperson of the Authority may remove voting members for the
good of the Authority and fill vacancies for unexpired terms with confirmation
by trustees of the Authority; and
   (E)   The Authority’s clerk or its designated representative will take
minutes of all meetings.
(Ord. 1356, passed 8-9-1994)
§11-503 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall identify, review and assess the higher education
needs for the city area. To discuss the identified community needs with the
educational ex officio members and liaison officials as it concerns the
complex.
   (B)   The Commission shall also become familiar with the scope of program
and operation of the city education complex.
   (C)   The Commission may provide recommendations to the Authority and the
Authority’s liaison official on contracts for services as necessary for the
successful operation of the complex.
   (D)   At the end of each calendar year (commencing 1995), the Commission
shall provide a written recommendation synopsis to the Authority on the overall
operation of the complex.
(Ord. 1356, passed 8-9-1994)
§11-504 RATIFICATION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council of the city, as beneficiary of the City Economic
Development Trust Authority, shall have the responsibility to ratify all
appointments made by the Trustees in relation to appointment of members to the
City Higher Education Complex Commission.
(Ord. 1356, passed 8-9-1994)
CHAPTER 6: PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
11-601   Board created
   
11-602   Composition of Board
   
11-603   Term of membership
   
11-604   Election of officers
   
11-605   Notice of meetings
   
11-606   Attendance of Advisory Board
   
11-607   Resignation
   
11-608   Duties
   
11-609   Minutes
§11-601 BOARD CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, hereinafter
known as the Advisory Board, with the composition and duties as set forth
below.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994)
§11-602 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall consist of five members who shall be citizens
of the city. Members shall be appointed from each ward by the Council member of
that ward. There shall be one member appointed by the Mayor to serve as an at
large representative.
   (B)   There shall be one ex officio, nonvoting, member selected from the
Mayor and City Council to act as liaison between the Advisory Board and the
Mayor and City Council. In addition, the City Council shall select an ex
officio member who shall be current president of the Garden Club.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994)
§11-603 TERM OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The term of office of the Board members shall follow the term of
office of the Mayor or City Council member making the appointment. In no case
shall an individual exceed two consecutive terms.
   (B)   The ex officio member shall be selected each year at the swearing in
ceremonies on the first Monday of May following the municipal election.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994)
§11-604 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   In May of each year the Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson and secretary and they shall serve until their respective
successors have been duly elected and qualified.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994)
§11-605 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall establish a quarterly meeting date and time,
and may cancel the meetings upon sufficient notice. All meetings shall be held
in the City Council chambers unless previously agreed upon by the Board and
sufficient notice given.
   (B)   Meetings of the Advisory Board shall follow the requirements of the
Open Meeting Act, 25 O.S. §§ 301 through 304. Public notice of the date, time,
place and agenda for the meetings shall be given in writing to the City Clerk
and posted in prominent public view at City Hall. Only matters appearing in the
posted agenda may be considered.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994; Ord. 1864, passed 12-10-2024)
§11-606 ATTENDANCE OF ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Chairperson shall provide to the Mayor, by report on a semiannual basis,
the attendance records of the voting members. Any voting member who has more
than 50% absences from regular meetings held during a six-month period shall be
replaced. A successor shall be selected by the Mayor or Council member as
established under the composition of the Board.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994)
§11-607 RESIGNATION.
   Any member may resign by filing a written resignation with the Chairperson
to be forwarded to Mayor and City Council with request for a new appointment.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994)
§11-608 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Advisory Board to make recommendations to the
Mayor and City Council regarding planning, improvements and construction of
public parks and recreational facilities and recreational activities. Such
recommendations shall be made upon the initiative of the Board or in response
to matters referred by the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994)
§11-609 MINUTES.
   A record of the actions of the Advisory Board meetings shall be kept by the
secretary and, upon approval of the Board, shall be given to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1361, passed 9-13-1994)
PART 12: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Chapter
   
1.    BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
2/3.    ZONING REGULATIONS
   
4.    SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   
5.    IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
   
6.    FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
7.    MAJOR STREET PLAN
   
8.    MOBILE HOMES
   
9.    UTILITY EXTENSION PARTICIPATION POLICIES
   
10.    DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL
   
11.    LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Article A. Planning Commission
   
12-101   Planning Commission established
   
12-102   Membership and terms
   
12-103   Designation of Zoning Commission
   
12-103.1   Continuance in effect of all rules, regulations of MAPC
Article B. Board of Adjustment
   
12-120   Creation and procedures; Board of Adjustment established
   
12-121   Meetings and rules
   
12-122   Powers
   
12-123   Powers relative to variations
   
12-124   Powers relative to exceptions
   
12-125   Extent of relief
   
12-126   Procedure for appeals to the Board of Adjustment
   
12-127   Notice of hearings, variances and exceptions
   
12-128   Appeal to District Court
Article C. Administrative Adjustment
   
12-130   Administrative adjustment procedures
ARTICLE A. PLANNING COMMISSION
§12-101 PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The city hereby establishes a Municipal Planning Commission in accordance
with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1287, passed 7-12-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 45-102
§12-102 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS.
   (A)   The membership of the Municipal Planning Commission shall consist of
seven citizens who shall be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the City
Council. The Mayor and Municipal Engineer shall be ex officio members of the
Municipal Planning Commission.
   (B)   The terms of appointments to the Municipal Planning Commission shall
be for three years and until such time as their (members) successors have been
confirmed by the City Council and sworn in with not less than two nor more than
three terms to expire in any calendar year. Appointments to fill a vacancy
shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 1287, passed 7-12-1988; Ord. 1537, passed 10-23-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 45-102
§12-103 DESIGNATION OF ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Municipal Planning Commission is hereby designated as the Zoning
Commission in accordance with the law of the state.
(Ord. 1287, passed 7-12-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 through 43-109
§12-103.1 CONTINUANCE IN EFFECT OF ALL RULES, REGULATIONS OF MAPC.
   The rules, regulations, policies, ordinances and procedures adopted by the
city or the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, as applicable within the
corporate limits of the city, including, but not limited to, §§
12-120 through
12-823, otherwise known as the land development code, shall continue in full
force and effect.
(Ord. 1287, passed 7-12-1988)
ARTICLE B. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§12-120 CREATION AND PROCEDURES; BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment consisting of five
members, citizens of the city, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Council, each to be appointed for a term of three years and until such time as
their successors (new) members have been confirmed by the City Council and
sworn in. Not less than two members shall be appointed from the membership of
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms of any members whose
term becomes vacant. Members may be removed for cause by the City Council upon
written charges and allowing an opportunity for hearing.
(Ord. 1538, passed 10-23-2001)
§12-121 MEETINGS AND RULES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect one of its members as
Chairperson to serve a term of two years. The Board shall adopt rules in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine.
      (2)   The Chairperson, or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. The
Board of Adjustment shall be subject to the open meeting laws of the state, and
all meetings, deliberations and voting of the Board shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such facts, and shall keep records of all official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
   (B)   The concurring vote of three members of the Board is necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision, determination of any administrative
official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which the
Board required to pass under any ordinance or to effect any variation as
provided in this chapter.
§12-122 POWERS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official in the interpretation or
enforcement of this chapter, or as provided in any other ordinance or
regulation.
§12-123 POWERS RELATIVE TO VARIATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to authorize variances
from the strict application of the provisions of this chapter, as well as such
other ordinances as the Council shall so determine, where the strict
application of such provisions would result in an unnecessary hardship, and may
establish such requirements relative to such property as would carry out the
purpose and intent of the regulations.
   (B)   The Board may grant a variance only upon finding that:
      (1)   The strict application of the ordinance to the particular piece of
property would result in an unnecessary hardship by reason of:
         (a)   Exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific
parcel of property at the time of the original adoption of the regulations;
         (b)   Exceptional topographic conditions; or
         (c)   Other extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a
specific parcel of property.
      (2)   The conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved; and
      (3)   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of the ordinance or the
comprehensive plan.
§12-124 POWERS RELATIVE TO EXCEPTIONS.
   Upon appeal, the Board is hereby empowered to permit the following
exceptions:
   (A)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record;
   (B)   To interpret the provisions of the chapter where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map fixing
the several districts, which map is attached to and made a part of this
chapter; and
   (C)   To grant exceptions to the off-street parking requirements set forth
in the zoning ordinance, when it is determined that the size and shape of the
lot to be built on is such that off-street parking provisions could not be
complied with, and that the proposed use will not create undue traffic
congestion in the adjacent streets.
§12-125 EXTENT OF RELIEF.
   (A)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, may reverse or affirm, wholly
or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made in keeping with the intent, spirit and purpose of this
chapter, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken.
   (B)   Every ruling made upon any appeal to the Board shall include a written
finding of fact by the Board of Adjustment and shall specify the reason for
granting or denying the appeal.
§12-126 PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS TO THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Appeals from the action of any administrative official acting under this
chapter shall be made in the following manner.
   (A)   The appeal shall be taken within 30 days of the action appealed by
filing with the official from whom the appeal is taken, and the office of the
Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds therefor, and
paying such fee as shall be established by the Council.
   (B)   The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board
all papers constituting the record of the matter in appeal.
   (C)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board
of Adjustment after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would in his or her opinion
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case the proceedings shall
not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application or notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any
party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
§12-127 NOTICE OF HEARINGS, VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Notice of public hearing before the Board of Adjustment shall be given
by publication in a newspaper of general circulation and by mailing written
notice by the clerk of the Board of Adjustment to all owners of property within
a 300-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property. A copy of
the published notice may be mailed in lieu of written notice; however, the
notice by publication and written notice shall be published and mailed at least
ten days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The notice, whether by publication or by mail, of a public hearing
before the Board of Adjustment shall contain:
      (1)   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the municipality;
      (2)   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of the
appeal, variance or exception requested; and
      (3)   Date, time and place of the hearing.
   (C)   On hearings involving minor variances or exceptions, notice shall be
given by the clerk of the Board of Adjustment by mailing written notice to all
owners of property adjacent to the subject property. The notice shall be mailed
at least ten days prior to the hearing and shall contain the facts listed in
division (B) above. The Board of Adjustment shall set forth in a statement of
policy what constitutes minor variances or exceptions, subject to approval or
amendment by the municipal governing body.
§12-128 APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT.
   (A)   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or order of the
Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the
city to the district court by filing notice of appeal with the City Clerk and
with the Board of Adjustment within ten days from the filing of the decision of
the Board of Adjustment which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal.
Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the Board of Adjustment
shall forthwith transmit to the court clerk of the county the original or
certified copy of all the papers constituting the record in the case, together
with the order, decision or ruling of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   An appeal to the district court from the Board of Adjustment stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Chairperson
of the Board of Adjustment, from which the appeal is taken, certifies to the
court clerk, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate a stay, in his or her opinion, would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
district court upon application or notice to the administrative officer in
charge of the enforcement of the terms and provisions of the ordinance, and
upon notice to the Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment from which the appeal
is taken, and upon due cause being shown, the court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought up for review.
ARTICLE C. ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENT
§12-130 ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose. An administrative adjustment is a staff approved adjustment
that may be issued for a structural encroachment to remedy an error made in the
field resulting in noncompliance with required regulations.
   (B)   Applicability. The Director of Community Development shall have the
authority to authorize administrative adjustment of up to 20% from numerical
standards limited to the following area development regulations:
      (1)   Front yard depth;
      (2)   Side yard width or area; and
      (3)   Rear yard depth or area.
   (C)   Public notification and administrative hearing.
      (1)   Administrative adjustment application requests of 10% or less from
numerical standards do not require public notification of the request.
      (2)   Administrative adjustment application requests of over 10% from
numerical standards require public notification by first class mail to adjacent
property owners of the request. Administrative hearing to hear application and
receive public comment shall be held no sooner than seven days after the date
of first class mailing to adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Review and action by Director of Community Development. The Director
shall review the application and approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application based upon the criteria below. A written decision including
affirmative findings on the criteria set forth below shall be mailed to the
applicant.
   (E)   Administrative adjustment criteria. To approve an application for an
administrative adjustment, the Director shall make an affirmative finding that
the following criteria are met:
      (1)   That granting the administrative adjustment will ensure the same
general level of land use compatibility as the otherwise applicable standards;
      (2)   That granting the administrative adjustment will not materially and
adversely affect adjacent land uses and the physical character of uses in the
immediate vicinity of the proposed development; and
      (3)   That granting the administrative adjustment will be generally
consistent with the purposes and intent of this land development code and the
general plan.
   (F)   Filing fee. When the application for the administrative adjustment is
filed, a filing fee as determined by City Council is required.
   (G)   Appeals. Appeal of an administrative adjustment denied by the Director
of Community Development shall be taken to the Board of Adjustment within 30
days of the mailing of the Director’s decision in accordance with §
12-126 .
(Ord. 1633, passed 6-13-2006)
CHAPTER 2/3: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
Article A. Citation, Purpose, Nature and Application of Zoning Ordinance
   
12-201   Citation
   
12-202   Purpose
   
12-203   Nature and application
   
12-204   Interpretations of words and terms
Article B. Establishment of Districts
   
12-210   Number of districts
   
12-211   Zoning district map
   
12-212   Zoning, annexed territory
   
12-213   Compliance required
   
12-214   Vacation of public easements
Article C. Residential Districts (R)
   
12-220   R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
12-221   Uses permitted
   
12-222   Uses permitted on review
   
12-223   Area regulations
   
12-224   Height regulations
   
12-225   R-2 Two-Family Residential District
   
12-226   Uses permitted
   
12-227   Uses permitted on review
   
12-228   Area regulations
   
12-229   Height regulations
   
12-230   R-3 General Residential District
   
12-231   Uses permitted
   
12-232   Uses permitted on review
   
12-233   Area regulations
   
12-234   Height regulations
   
12-235   R-4 Residential Estate District
   
12-236   Uses permitted
   
12-237   Uses permitted on review
   
12-238   Area regulations
Article D. Commercial Districts (C)
   
12-240   C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District
   
12-241   Uses permitted
   
12-242   Uses permitted on review
   
12-243   Area regulations
   
12-244   Height regulations
   
12-245   C-2 Office Commercial District
   
12-246   Uses permitted
   
12-247   Area regulations
   
12-248   Height regulations
   
12-250   C-3 Planned Shopping Center District
   
12-251   Uses permitted
   
12-252   Area regulations
   
12-253   Height regulations
   
12-254   Off-street parking
   
12-255   Administrative procedures for planned shopping center development
   
12-256   C-4 General Commercial District
   
12-257   Uses permitted
   
12-258   Uses permitted on review
   
12-259   Open display uses permitted
   
12-260   Area regulations
   
12-261   Height regulations
Article E. Industrial Districts (I)
   
12-265   I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District
   
12-266   Uses permitted; uses permitted on review
   
12-267   Area regulations
   
12-268   Height regulations
   
12-269   Sign regulations
   
12-270   I-2 Light Industrial District
   
12-271   Uses permitted; uses permitted on review
   
12-272   Area regulations
   
12-273   Height regulations
   
12-274   Sign regulations
   
12-275   I-3 General Industrial District
   
12-276   Uses permitted
   
12-277   Uses permitted on review
   
12-278   Area regulations
   
12-279   Height regulations
   
12-280   Sign regulations
Article F. Other Districts
   
12-290   F-1 Floodplain District
   
12-291   Application as an overlay district
   
12-292   Boundaries established
   
12-293   Uses permitted
   
12-294   Development permit required
   
12-295   Change of Zoning Map for F-1 Floodplain District
   
12-296   Adoption of regulations
   
12-297   Failure to comply with flood hazard regulation; offense
   
12-298   [Reserved]
   
12-299   [Reserved]
   
12-300   T-C Tourist Commercial District
   
12-301   Uses permitted
   
12-302   Uses permitted on review
   
12-303   Advertising signs or structures
   
12-304   Other uses
   
12-305   Area and setback requirements
   
12-306   Height regulations
   
12-307   Special provisions
Article G. Agricultural Districts (A)
   
12-320   A-1 General Agricultural District
   
12-321   Uses permitted
   
12-322   Uses permitted on review
   
12-323   Area regulations
   
12-324   A-2 Suburban District
   
12-325   Uses permitted
   
12-326   Uses permitted on review
   
12-327   Area regulations
   
12-328   Height regulations
   
12-329   AP Agriculture Preserve District
   
12-330   Uses permitted
   
12-331   Uses permitted on review
   
12-332   Area regulations
   
12-333   Height regulations
   
12-334   CO Highway 7 Corridor Overlay District
   
12-335   Overlay District Boundaries
   
12-336   Uses permitted
   
12-337   Nonresidential development standards
Article H. Planned Unit Zoning and Multiple-Family Dwellings
   
12-340   Purpose of planned unit development
   
12-341   Planned unit development authorized
   
12-342   Planned unit development procedures
   
12-343   RE Rural Estates Zoning District
   
12-344   Uses permitted
   
12-345   Uses permitted on review
   
12-346   Accessory uses permitted
   
12-347   Area regulations
   
12-348   Special provisions
Article I. Requirements for Satellite Television (Dish) Antennas
   
12-350   “Satellite television (dish) antennas” defined
   
12-351   Location of satellite antenna in residential zoning
   
12-352   Location of satellite television antenna or dish antenna in other
zoning
   
12-353   Permit requirements
   
12-354   Permit requirement for use of satellite by persons other than occupant
or property owner
   
12-355   Transmission for satellite television or dish antenna license
Article J. General Provisions Applying to All or to Several Districts
   
12-360   Application of regulation to the uses of a more restricted district
   
12-361   Open space
   
12-362   Height
   
12-363   Group housing projects
   
12-364   Storage and parking of trailers and commercial vehicles
   
12-365   Architectural design of accessory buildings and fences
   
12-366   Animals
   
12-367   Storage of liquefied petroleum gases
   
12-368   Off-street automobile and vehicle parking and loading; general intent
and application
   
12-369   Required open space
   
12-370   Location
   
12-371   Joint parking facilities
   
12-372   Size of off-street parking space
   
12-373   Amount of off-street parking and loading required
   
12-374   Off-street parking lots in residential districts
   
12-375   Paved surface required
   
12-376   Court requirements for multiple-family dwellings
   
12-377   Residential carports
   
12-378   Sign regulations
   
12-379   Residential outdoor storage requirements
Article K. Nonconforming Buildings, Structures and Uses of Land
   
12-380   Nonconforming buildings and structures
   
12-381   Alteration or enlargement of buildings and structures
   
12-382   Outdoor advertising signs and structures
   
12-383   Building vacancy
   
12-384   Change in use
   
12-385   Nonconforming uses of land
Article L. Administration
   
12-387   Building permit or certificate of occupancy required
   
12-388   Building permits
   
12-389   Certificate of occupancy
   
12-390   Procedure for authorizing uses permitted on review
   
12-391   Amendments
   
12-392   Adoption of amendment
   
12-393   Violation and penalty
ARTICLE A. CITATION, PURPOSE, NATURE AND APPLICATION OF ZONING ORDINANCE
§12-201 CITATION.
   This chapter, in pursuance of the authority granted by the legislature of
the state in 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 through 43-109, 44-101 through 44-110 and 45-101
through 45-104, shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Duncan
and may be cited as such.
§12-202 PURPOSE.
   The regulations contained herein are necessary to encourage the most
appropriate uses of land; to maintain and stabilize the value of property; to
reduce fire hazards and improve public safety and safeguard the public health;
to decrease traffic congestion and its accompanying hazards; to prevent undue
concentration of population; and to create a comprehensive and stable pattern
of land uses upon which to plan for transportation, water supply, sewerage,
schools, parks, public utilities and other facilities. In interpreting and
applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be held to be necessary for
the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare.
§12-203 NATURE AND APPLICATION.
   This chapter classifies and regulates the use of land, buildings and
structures within the corporate limits of the city as hereinafter set forth, by
dividing the city into zones and regulating therein the use of land and the use
and size of buildings as to the height and number of stories, the coverage of
the land by buildings, the size of yards and open spaces, the location of
buildings and the density of population. Except as hereinafter otherwise
provided, no land shall be used and no building, structure or improvement shall
be made, erected, constructed, moved, altered, enlarged or rebuilt which is
designed, arranged or intended to be used or maintained for any purpose or in
any manner except in conformity with the regulations contained herein.
§12-204 INTERPRETATIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS.
   For the purpose of these regulations certain terms and words are to be used
and interpreted as defined hereinafter. Words used in the present tense shall
include the future tense; words in the singular include the plural and words in
the plural number include the singular, except where the natural construction
of the writing indicates otherwise. The word “shall” is mandatory and not
directory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure which is
subordinate and accessory to the principal structure on the same lot and is
used for purposes customarily incidental to those of the principal use or
structure. If a building or structure is attached to a principal building, it
shall be considered a part thereof and not an accessory structure unless
structure is separated from the principal structure or is connected to such
principal structure only by means of a porch, breezeway, passageway, garage or
carport. An ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
      (1)   Shall be used exclusively by the occupants or owners of the main
structure on the property site;
      (2)   Shall not be permitted for sleeping quarters or living space use;
      (3)   Shall not be permitted for conduct of business, whether for profit
or otherwise;
      (4)   May allow for one-half bath and utility sink, except three-fourths
bath is allowed for pool house facility;
      (5)   Shall not include a kitchen; and
      (6)   Must be located in the rear yard or side yard of the property site
only.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to
the principal use of land or buildings and located upon the same lot therewith.
   ADULT DAYCARE CENTER or CENTER. A facility which provides basic daycare
services to unrelated impaired adults for more than four hours in a 24-hour
period. A CENTER shall be a distinct entity, either freestanding or a separate
program of a larger organization. A CENTER shall have a separately verifiable
staff, space, budget and participant record system. The terms ADULT DAYCARE
CENTER or CENTER shall not include retirement centers and senior citizen
centers.
   ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. Any cloth, card, paper, metal, glass, wooden,
plastic, plaster, stone sign or other sign, device or structure of any
character whatsoever, including a statuary, placed for outdoor advertising
purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building
or structure. The term PLACED shall include erecting, constructing, posting,
painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or otherwise
fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of an
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE shall be determined as the area of the largest cross-
section of such structure. Neither directional, warning nor other signs posted
by public officials in the course of their public duties nor merchandise or
materials being offered for sale shall be construed as advertising signs for
the purpose of this chapter.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure on agricultural land designed,
constructed and used to house farm implements, livestock or agricultural
products or produce used by the owner, lessee or sublessee engaged in the
storage, pick up or delivery of agricultural animals, produce or products grown
or raised on the premises. This term does not include dwellings.
   AGRICULTURAL PRESERVE. Land designated for conservation of agricultural land
and uses to protect the agricultural land base by regulating non-farm uses and
prohibiting urban residential density subdivisions and housing or other retail,
commercial and industrial uses. This district is designed to apply to those
areas within the city limits beyond planned or foreseeable connection to
municipal water and/or sewer systems.
   AGRICULTURE. The process of growing or using plants and animals for
production of legal commodities. The use of land for agricultural purposes
including pasture, farming, dairying, horticulture, floriculture or in the
commercial production of crops, fish hatcheries or aquaculture. Also for the
purposes of this chapter, the keeping of livestock for commercial or
noncommercial purposes is defined as an agricultural use.
      (1)   LIVESTOCK includes, but is not limited to, poultry and hoofed
animals such as cattle, horses, swine, goats and sheep.
      (2)   Also included in this definition of AGRICULTURAL uses are
agricultural accessory buildings, and sales of agricultural products grown or
raised on the premises. This shall not include animal rendering plants, hide
production, commercial slaughtering of animals or commercial feedlots for
marketing.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A dwelling designed to be occupied by three or more
families living independently of each other; see also definition of DWELLING,
MULTIPLE.
   AUTOMOBILE. A self-propelled mechanical vehicle designed for use on streets
and highways for the conveyance of goods and people including, but not limited
to, the following: passenger cars, trucks, buses, motor scooters and
motorcycles.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story when more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A secondary or accessory use of a residential single-
family dwelling allowing guest lodging and service of a single breakfast meal
to resident guests.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more, but not exceeding 12 persons on a weekly or monthly basis.
   BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment whose business activity is the
practice of the piercing of a part of the human body for the purpose of wearing
jewelry in the opening created. This restriction does not apply to ear
piercing.
   BUILDING. Any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure for
persons, animals or chattel. When separated by dividing walls without openings,
each portion of such structure so separated, shall be deemed a separate
building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof or
the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be a MAIN BUILDING on the lot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING SITE. A single parcel of land under one ownership, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
   COVERAGE. The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including
the area covered by all overhanging roofs.
   DAYCARE.
      (1)   DAYCARE CENTER. Any place, home or institution which receives eight
or more children under the age of 18 years for more than 30 hours per week who
are not of common parentage for care apart from their parents, legal guardian
or custodians.
      (2)   DAYCARE HOME (FAMILY DAYCARE HOME). Any place, home or institution
which receives seven or less children under the age of 18 years for less than
30 hours per week who are not of common parentage for care apart from their
parents, legal guardian or custodian.
      (3)   DAYCARE HOME and DAYCARE CENTER shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Care provided in the child’s own home or by relatives;
         (b)   Informal arrangements which parents make with friends or
neighbors for the occasional care of their children;
         (c)   Programs in which school aged children are participating in home
schooling;
         (d)   Programs operated during typical school hours by a public school
district;
         (e)   Programs operated during typical school hours by a private
school that offers elementary education in grade kindergarten through third
grade;
         (f)   Summer youth camps for children at least five years of age that
are accredited by the American Camping Association or other national standards
setting agency or church camp accreditation program;
         (g)   Programs in which children attend on a drop in basis and parents
are on the premises and readily accessible;
         (h)   Nursery schools, kindergartens or other facilities whose purpose
is primarily educational, recreational or medical and which operate part day
childcare programs which provide care and supervision for eight or more
children for 15 hours per week; and
         (i)   Facilities whose primary purpose is medical treatment.
   DISTRICT. Any section or sections of the city for which the regulations
governing the use of land and the use, density, bulk, height and coverage of
buildings and other structures are uniform for each class or kind of building
therein.
   DPUA. The city’s Public Utilities Authority.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including trailer homes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by three or
more families living independently of each other, exclusive of hotels or
motels.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   EXCESS SEWER CAPACITY. Equals the net value of the capacity calculated using
Manning’s formulas, of the most restrictive sewer pipe segment located in the
same minisystem in which the proposed sewer connection is to be made, minus the
sum of the existing and calculated contributing peak flows from all existing
sewer mains tributary to the most restrictive sewer pipe segment and all
potential development of land tributary to this same point, respectively.
EXCESS SEWER CAPACITY shall be determined from data acceptable to the City
Engineer provided by the requesting party.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a
group of not to exceed five persons (excluding servants), not all related by
blood or marriage, occupying premises and living as a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or lodging
house, hotel, club or similar dwelling for group use.
      (2)   A FAMILY shall not be deemed to include domestic servants employed
by the family.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private
garage.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any building, or portion thereof used for the storage of
four or more automobiles in which any servicing which may be provided is
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities
are not provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or a part of a main building used for
storage purposes only for automobiles used solely by the occupants and their
guests of the building to which it is accessory.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, where vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair or equipping of automobiles.
   GASOLINE SERVICE OR FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures
thereon, that is used for the retail sale of gasoline or oil fuels, or other
automobile accessories, and incidental services including facilities for
lubricating, hand washing and cleaning, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but
not including painting, major repair or automatic automobile washing.
   GRAVITY FLOW SEWER. The portion of the sanitary sewer system comprised of
pipes, manholes and cleanouts that relies on the force of gravity to collect
and transport sewage from the point of connection with the building sewer to
the point of discharge. Specifically does not include pumps, force mains or
other systems that transport sewage using artificially developed pressure such
as pump systems.
   GROUP HOME. A dwelling occupied by more than five and less than ten
unrelated individuals living as a single nonprofit household when sponsored by
a not-for-profit corporation and so recognized by the state, Department of
Human Services.
   HIGHWAY 7 CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT. The CO Highway 7 Corridor Overlay
District is intended to provide visual and scenic protection regulations along
the Highway 7 corridor through the city to promote a visually appealing and
compatible quality of development for existing and future citizens, investors,
developers and travelers. The regulations of the underlying base zoning
district or districts remain applicable, except as modified, extended or
restricted by this overlay district.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings; provided, that no
trading in merchandise is carried on and in connection with which there is no
display of merchandise or advertising sign other than one non-illuminated
nameplate not more than two square feet in area attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used except as is customary
for purely domestic or household purposes. A beauty or barber shop, tearoom or
restaurant, rest home or clinic, doctor’s or dentist’s office, childcare
center, tourist home or cabinet, metal or auto repair shop shall not be deemed
a HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation, but not including trailer court or camp, sanatorium,
hospital, asylum, orphanage or building where persons are housed under
restraint.
   KENNEL.
      (1)   Includes a cattery and means any premises wherein a person, firm or
corporation engages in the business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for
hire, training for a fee or selling dogs or cats.
      (2)   The definition of a KENNEL shall exclude persons or household
members who own one dog and/or one cat for breeding purposes for personal
ownership and/or sale of puppies and/or kittens.
      (3)   See also §
4-102.
   KITCHEN.
      (1)   Having all three of the following appliances:
         (a)   Sink;
         (b)   Refrigerator; and
         (c)   Built in countertop cooking facilities.
      (2)   Additional appliances such as dishwasher or microwave ovens that
may be combined with any two or three of the above appliances to constitute a
kitchen. WET BARS are defined as utilizing a sink and/or refrigerator only,
with the refrigerator not over six cubic feet in size.
   LOT. Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main
building, or a group of main buildings, and accessory buildings and uses,
including such open spaces as are required by this chapter and other laws or
ordinances, and having its principal frontage on a street. A LOT may be
replatted or it may be a building site comprised of parts of platted lots or of
more than one platted lot.
   LOT AREA. The total area measured on a horizontal plane, included within lot
lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which has at least two adjacent sides abutting for their
full lengths on a street; provided, that the interior angle at the intersection
of such two sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES. Any of the following.
      (1)   CONVALESCENT, REST OR NURSING HOME. A health facility where persons
are housed and furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for
compensation.
      (2)   DENTAL CLINIC OR MEDICAL CLINIC. A facility for the examination and
treatment of ill and afflicted human outpatients, provided that patients are
not kept overnight except under emergency conditions.
      (3)   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services primarily for
human inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices which are an integral
part of the facilities.
      (4)   OFFICES FOR DENTISTS, DOCTORS, OCULISTS, OPTOMETRISTS, OSTEOPATHS
AND CHIROPRACTORS. The same as dental or medical clinic.
      (5)   PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER. A facility primarily utilized by a health
unit for providing public health services including related facilities such as
laboratories, clinics and administrative offices operated in connection
therewith.
      (6)   SANATORIUM. An institution providing health facilities for
inpatient treatment or treatment and recuperation making use of natural
therapeutic agents.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does
not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. A parking space not on or extending over any
public easement or right-of-way.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed,
sufficient in size to store one automobile together with a permanently surfaced
driveway connecting the parking space with a street or alley.
   PROPANE, BULK STORAGE. The storage of LPG in large tanks, when found
throughout this part, bulk storage as a permitted use and/or a use permitted on
review, shall mean the storage and/or warehousing of the LPG product designated
for commercial or industrial application.
   PROPANE, DISPENSARY. Dispensary, or dispensing stations, are large LPG tanks
that are designed to service/fill portable LPG tanks. Typically, these portable
LPG tanks are, but not limited to, propane grill tanks, forklift cylinders and
roof cylinders. These tanks can typically hold up to 2,000 gallons.
   PROPANE, LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG). When found throughout this part,
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS listed as a permitted use and/or a use permitted on
review, shall mean and be limited to, the retail sale of LPG containers that
are sold from an exterior steel cabinet that is lockable. These LPG tanks are
serviced/filled off site. This is commonly known as a cylinder exchange program
for LPG containers.
   PROPANE WHOLESALE. The selling of LPG in large quantities to be retailed by
others.
   REASONABLY ACCESSIBLE. See §
3-103 (E) of the DPUA rules and regulations.
   ROADSIDE STAND. Any structure or land used for the sale of agricultural or
horticultural produce, livestock or merchandise produced by the owner or the
owner’s family on their farm.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 12 persons; a building which has
accommodations for more than 12 persons shall be defined as a hotel under the
terms of this chapter.
   SALVAGE YARD, AUTOMOBILE. Any property upon which there are stored or kept
two or more unlicensed, inoperable, wrecked or junked motor vehicles except in
conjunction with a body shop; provided, however, that this shall not prohibit
the storage or keeping of not more than two such vehicles on a residential
property when within the rear yard and screened from sight of adjacent
properties, streets or alleys or the keeping of more than two such vehicles
when within an enclosed building.
   SANITARY SEWERAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. The network of sewers, together with
sewage lift stations, and all appurtenances necessary for the collection of
sewage, to include treatment works.
   SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRY OR DRY-CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT. Any attended or
unattended place, building or portion thereof, available to the general public
for the purpose of washing, drying, extracting moisture from or dry-cleaning
wearing apparel, cloth, fabrics and textiles of any kind by means of a
mechanical appliance which is operated primarily by the customer.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable, other than a private stable, with a capacity for
more than two horses or mules.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area is
finished off for use. A HALF STORY containing independent apartment or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   STREET. Any public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access of abutting property.
   STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street which joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or which is attached to something having a location on
the ground.
   TATTOO PARLOR ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment whose business activity is the
practice of producing an indelible mark or figure on the human body by scarring
or inserting a pigment under the skin using needles, scalpels or other related
equipment.
   TOURIST COURT. An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended
to be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient persons or
families and intended primarily for automobile transients.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in not more than
four rooms are provided or offered for transient guests for compensation.
   TRAILER COURT OR MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership
which has been designed or improved or is intended to be used or rented for
occupancy by more than one house trailer or mobile home.
   TRAILER HOME, MOBILE HOME OR HOUSE TRAILER. A portable or mobile living unit
used or designed for human occupancy on a permanent basis.
   TRAILER HOME OR MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL OR CAMPING.
      (1)   BOAT.
         (a)   A vehicle for traveling in or on the water not exceeding 30 feet
in body length, eight feet in width or 11 feet in overall height. Height
includes the trailer if the boat is mounted on a trailer.
         (b)   A vehicle meeting the above definition except for size is not
deemed incidental to the dwelling unit.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular unit not exceeding 40 feet in
body length, eight feet in width or 11 feet in overall height, primarily
designed as a temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel
use; it either has its own motive power or is designed to be mounted on or
drawn by another vehicle. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE includes motor homes, truck
campers, travel trailer and camping trailer. A vehicle meeting the above
definition except for size is not deemed incidental to dwelling unit.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except where otherwise specifically provided in this chapter that the
building or structure may be located in a portion of a yard required for a main
building. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining the width of the
side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the shortest
horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard located in front of the front elevation of a building
line and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the
minimum horizontal distance between the front property line and the outside
wall of the main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between the
lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the rear of the outside wall of the main building. On both corner lots and
interior lots, the REAR YARD shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the
lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the outside wall of the side of
the main building.
(Ord. 1254, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 1414, passed 11-26-1996; Ord. 1427, passed
2-25-1997; Ord. 1509, passed 7-25-2000; Ord. 1531, passed 8-14-2001; Ord. 1558,
passed 2-25-2003; Ord. 1559, passed 2-25-2003; Ord. 1640, passed 10-24-2006;
Ord. 1680, passed 10-27-2009; Ord. 1695, passed 2-8-2011; Ord. 1698, passed 8-
9-2011; Ord. 1757, passed 8-23-2016)
ARTICLE B. ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§12-210 NUMBER OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter the following districts are hereby
established for the city:
      (1)   Residential districts (R):
         (a)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
         (b)   R-2 Two-Family Residential District;
         (c)   R-3 General Residential District; and
         (d)   R-4 Residential Estate District.
      (2)   Commercial districts (C):
         (a)   C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District;
         (b)   C-2 Office Commercial District;
         (c)   C-3 Planned Shopping Center District; and
         (d)   C-4 General Commercial District.
      (3)   Industrial districts (I):
         (a)   I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District;
         (b)   I-2 Light Industrial District; and
         (c)   I-3 General Industrial District.
      (4)   Floodplain districts (F-1): F-1 Floodplain District;
      (5)   Tourist commercial districts (T-C): T-C Tourist Commercial
District;
      (6)   Agricultural districts (A):
         (a)   A-1 General Agricultural District;
         (b)   A-2 Suburban District;
         (c)   AP Agriculture Preserve District; and
         (d)   CO Highway 7 Corridor Overlay District.
      (7)   Rural estates districts (RE): RE Rural Estates District.
   (B)   The city is hereby divided into districts as shown on the zoning map,
filed with the City Clerk. The zoning district map of the city and all of the
notations, references and other matters shown thereon, shall be made as much a
part of this chapter as if notations, references or other matters set forth by
the map were all fully described herein; which district map is on file in the
office of the City Clerk at the City Hall of the city.
(Ord. 1558, passed 2-25-2003; Ord. 1559, passed 2-25-2003; Ord. 1565, passed 5-
27-2003)
§12-211 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts set out herein are delineated upon
the zoning district map of the city, the map being part of this chapter as
fully as if the same were set forth herein in detail.
§12-212 ZONING, ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   (A)   All territory that is annexed to the city, if it has been zoned by the
Board of County Commissioners, shall retain the same zoning district
classification until otherwise classified by an amendment to the city zoning
ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   All territory that is annexed to the city, if it has not been
zoned by the Board of County Commissioners, shall be an R-1 Residential
District unless otherwise classified at the time of annexation by the City
Council. Such classification shall remain in effect for a period of time not to
exceed one year from the effective date hereof annexing the recommendations
concerning the use of land within the annexed area which use shall be in
conformity with the general land use plan.
      (2)   The City Council, upon receipt of these recommendations and after
public hearings as required by law, shall establish the district
classifications for such area.
§12-213 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All land, building, structures or appurtenances thereon located within the
city, which are hereafter occupied, used, erected, altered, removed, demolished
or converted shall be used, removed, placed and erected in conformance with the
zoning regulations prescribed for the zoning district in which such land or
building is located as hereinafter provided.
§12-214 VACATION OF PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public easement is vacated, the district
classifications of the property to which the vacated portions of land accrue
shall become the classification of the vacated land.
ARTICLE C. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (R)
§12-220 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is the most restrictive
residential district. The principal use of land is for single-family dwellings
and related recreational, religious and educational facilities normally
required to provide an orderly and attractive residential area.
   (B)   These residential areas are intended to be defined and protected from
the encroachment of uses which are not appropriate to residential environment.
Stability of property values, attractiveness, order and efficiency are
encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwellings
and related facilities and through consideration of the proper functional
relationship of the different uses.
§12-221 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-1 Single-Family Residential District shall be
used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main building, including
one private garage; or accessory buildings which are a part of a main building,
including one private garage;
   (B)   Agricultural crops, but not the raising of farm animals or poultry.
Agricultural crops do not include the growing of medical marijuana for
commercial purposes;
   (C)   Church bulletin board or sign, not exceeding 15 square feet in area,
attached to the main building or located behind the front building line on the
same lot with the church building;
   (D)   Churches, but not including missions or revival tents or arbors;
   (E)   Detached one-family dwelling;
   (F)   Home occupation;
   (G)   Municipal buildings and facilities and public utilities, excluding
equipment storage and work yards;
   (H)   Parking lot required to serve the uses permitted in this district;
   (I)   Public park or playground;
   (J)   Public school or school offering general educational courses the same
as ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms regularly used for
housing and sleeping;
   (K)   Temporary building of the construction industry which is incidental to
the erection of buildings permitted in this district, and which shall be
removed when construction work is completed;
   (L)   Temporary bulletin board or sign, not exceeding 12 square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which board
or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold.
This section does not include signs used by a builder or subdivider to
advertise the property during the construction and sales period. Any sign
larger than 12 square feet must be approved by the Planning Commission for
periods of one year with renewal approved by the Planning Commission; and
   (M)   Transportation and utility easements, alleys and rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1814, passed 10-27-2020)
§12-222 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with provisions
contained in this part:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast, in a single-family home, limited to four guest
bedrooms. This type of bed and breakfast shall be allowed on review; provided,
that:
      (1)   No individual cooking facilities may be installed in any guestroom;
      (2)   Meal service is limited to breakfast and limited to resident guests
only;
      (3)   The sale of goods and beverages to other than overnight guests is
strictly prohibited;
      (4)   The owner shall reside on-premises;
      (5)   One parking space shall be provided for the owner-operator plus two
spaces for each four rooms that serve as guest bedrooms;
      (6)   Parking shall be located to the side or rear of the structure;
      (7)   Any proposed additions must be compatible with the architectural
style and building materials of the dwelling; and
      (8)   No lighting or signage may be installed which has not been reviewed
as part of the proposed development plan.
   (B)   Daycare center or daycare home (family daycare home); however the
following building requirements are mandatory:
      (1)   A facility which accommodates more than five children two and one-
half years of age or less for any length of time shall meet all building and
life safety codes applicable for an IBC 1-2 use group classification;
      (2)   A facility which accommodates more than five children more than two
and one-half years of age for less than 24 hours per day shall meet all
building and life safety codes applicable for an IBC E use group
classification; and
      (3)   A facility which accommodates five or less children of any age
shall meet all building and life safety codes applicable for an IBC R-3 use
group classification.
   (C)   Golf course or country club;
   (D)   Group home;
   (E)   Home beauty shop located in a dwelling, provided such shop is
conducted within the main dwelling, and is operated only by the inhabitants
thereof and does not exceed one operator. The use shall be conducted in such a
way that it is clearly incidental to the dwelling use and shall not change the
character thereof. No sign shall be permitted except one non-illuminated
nameplate not exceeding two square feet in area, attached to the main building;
   (F)   Plant nursery in which no building or structure is maintained in
connection therewith; and
   (G)   Youth guidance and activity centers.
(Ord. 1254, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 1414, passed 11-26-1996; Ord. 1427, passed
2-25-1997)
§12-223 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All buildings shall be set back from street rights-of-way and lot lines to
comply with the following yard requirements.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be complied with on both streets except where rear access is denied.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main building of not less than five feet for dwellings of
one story, and of not less than ten feet for dwellings of more than one story,
except as hereinafter provided in §
12-362. Where adjacent lots are under one ownership, a three-foot minimum is
allowable provided there is at least ten feet between adjacent structures and
the sum of the side yards, measured along the front building line is ten feet
for lots 70 feet or less in width and 15% of the lot width where such lot
exceeds 70 feet. The sum of the side yards shall be considered to the nearest
foot.
      (2)   For dwellings located on corner lots, there shall be a side yard
setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15 feet in case such lot
is back-to-back with another corner lot, and 20 feet in every other case within
50 feet of an abutting property. The interior side yard of a corner lot shall
be the same as for dwellings on an interior lot.
      (3)   For unattached buildings of accessory residential use:
         (a)   There shall be a side yard of not less than five feet from an
interior side lot line; provided, however, that unattached one-story buildings
of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than three feet from an
interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory buildings are located
more than 90 feet behind the front lot line; and
         (b)   On corner lots there shall be a side yard setback from the
intersecting street as required for dwellings; provided however, that
unattached one-story buildings of accessory use, other than garages or other
structures with driveways opening directly upon the intersecting street, shall
not be required to set back more than three feet from the right-of-way of the
intersecting local or collector street or more than five feet from the
projected right-of-way of a major street when within a yard enclosed with a
sight-proof fence of not less than six feet in height.
      (4)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings, shall set back from all exterior and interior
side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard for a main building of not less
than 20 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear yard of a main
building; however no accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
to the rear lot line where no alley exists or closer than five feet to the rear
lot line where an alley exists.
   (D)   Lot width. For dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width of 50
feet at the front building line and such lot shall abut on a street for a
distance of not less than 30 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   For each dwelling and buildings accessory thereto, there shall be a
lot area of not less than 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking areas
required in this part; provided, however, that the lot area for a church shall
not be less than 40,000 square feet.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30%
of the lot area on interior lots and 35% of the lot area on corner lots.
Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
(Ord. 1402, passed 7-31-1996)
§12-224 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height
except as provided in §
12-362.
§12-225 R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The R-2 Two-Family Residential District is a residential district to
provide for a slightly higher population density but with basic restrictions
similar to the R-1 District. The principal use of land is for single-family
dwellings and related recreational, religious and educational facilities
normally required to provide a balanced and attractive residential area.
   (B)   Internal stability, attractiveness, order and efficiency are
encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwellings
and related facilities and through the consideration of the proper functional
relationship of the different uses.
§12-226 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-2 District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in an R-1 Residential District;
   (B)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses
when located on the same lot; and
   (C)   Two-family dwelling or a single-family dwelling and a garage
apartment.
§12-227 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with provisions
contained in this part: any use permitted on review in an R-1 Single-Family
Residential District.
§12-228 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way lines or lot lines
to comply with the following yard requirements.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   When a yard has a double frontage then front yard requirements
shall be complied with on both sides; except when rear access is denied.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main dwelling of not less than five feet for dwellings of
one story, and of not less than ten feet for dwellings of more than one story,
except as hereinafter provided in §
12-362. Where adjacent lots are under one ownership, a three-foot minimum is
allowable provided there is at least ten feet between adjacent structures and
the sum of the side yards, measured along the front building line, is ten feet
for lots 70 feet or less in width and 15% of the lot width where such lot
exceeds 70 feet. The sum of the side yards shall be considered to the nearest
foot.
      (2)   For dwellings located on corner lots there shall be a side yard
setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15 feet in case such lot
is back-to-back with another corner lot, and 20 feet in every other case within
50 feet of an abutting property. The interior side yard of a corner lot shall
be the same as for dwellings on an interior lot.
      (3)   For unattached buildings of accessory residential use:
         (a)   There shall be a side yard of not less than five feet from an
interior side lot line; provided, however, that unattached one-story buildings
of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than three feet from an
interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory buildings are located
more than 90 feet behind the front lot line; and
         (b)   On corner lots, there shall be a side yard setback from the
intersecting street as required for dwellings; provided however, that
unattached one-story buildings of accessory use, other than garages or other
structures with driveways opening directly upon the intersecting street, shall
not be required to set back more than three feet from the right-of-way of the
intersecting local or collector street or more than five feet from the
projected right-of-way of a major street when within a yard enclosed with a
sight-proof fence of not less than six feet in height.
      (4)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings and trailers, shall set back from all exterior
and interior side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   For main buildings, other than garage apartments, there shall be a
rear yard of not less than 20 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever is
smaller.
      (2)   Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear
yard of a main building; provided, that no accessory building shall be located
closer than ten feet to the rear lot line where no alley exists and not closer
than five feet to the rear lot line where an alley exists.
      (3)   Garage apartments may be located in the rear yard of another
dwelling but shall not be located closer than ten feet to the rear lot line
where no alley exists and not closer than five feet where an alley exists.
   (D)   Lot width. There shall be a minimum lot width of 50 feet at the front
building line for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings or single-
family dwellings and garage apartments, and such lot shall abut on a street for
a distance of not less than 30 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   For each single-family dwelling and accessory building, there shall
be a lot area of not less than 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   For each two-family dwelling and accessory buildings, there shall
be a lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet. A garage apartment located on
the same lot with a single-family dwelling shall have the same area
requirements as a two-family dwelling and for purposes of intensity shall
constitute a two-family dwelling. A garage apartment shall not be located on
the same lot with a two-family dwelling.
      (3)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking area
required in this part; provided, however, that the lot area for a church shall
not be less than 40,000 square feet.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30%
of the lot area on interior lots and more than 35% of the lot area on corner
lots. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
(Ord. 1402, passed 7-31-1996)
§12-229 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height,
except as provided in §
12-362.
§12-230 R-3 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This is a residential district to provide for medium and high population
density. The principal use of land may range from single-family to multiple-
family and garden apartment uses. Certain uses which are more compatible
functionally with intensive residential uses than with commercial uses are
permitted. The recreational, religious and educational facilities normally
required to provide an orderly and attractive residential area are permitted.
Stability of property value, attractiveness, order and efficiency are
encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwelling and
related facilities and through consideration of the proper functional
relationship of each use permitted in the district.
§12-231 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Any use permitted in an R-2 Residential District;
   (B)   Garage apartment, when located on a separate lot or on the same lot
with another dwelling use;
   (C)   Group home;
   (D)   Multiple-family dwelling;
   (E)   Rooming or boarding house; and
   (F)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses
when located on the same lot.
(Ord. 1254, passed 12-17-1985)
§12-232 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with provisions
contained in this part:
   (A)   Any use permitted on review in an R-2 Two-Family Residential District;
   (B)   Adult daycare center:
      (1)   An adult daycare center shall meet all building and life safety
codes applicable for an IBC A-4 use group classification.
      (2)   The building’s exterior shall harmonize with the character of the
neighborhood.
      (3)   An adult daycare center for more than seven adults shall be on a
site of at least 10,000 square feet and shall maintain a sight-proof fence,
wall or dense evergreen hedge having a height of six feet.
      (4)   Requests for such facilities shall provide the following:
         (a)   Development plan showing layout of the operation;
         (b)   A traffic impact analysis (TIA) study if required by the City
Engineer. If a TIA is required it shall be submitted in a form acceptable to
the City Engineer; and
         (c)   A written statement shall be included on the application for a
use permitted on review declaring the intended hours of operation of the
facility expressed in opening and closing hours. Additionally, the maximum
number of adults the facility is licensed for, as determined by the State
Department of Human Services, shall be shown on the application as part of the
review.
      (5)   Minimum parking spaces required: one and one-half per FTE employee.
      (6)   There shall be no sign other than one non-illuminated nameplate not
more than four square feet in area attached to the main dwelling in a
residential zoning district.
   (C)   An off-street parking lot associated with a commercial use as required
under the provisions of this part;
   (D)   Institutions of a religious, educational or philanthropic nature;
   (E)   Medical facility;
   (F)   Office business conducted principally by the inhabitants of a dwelling
which is clearly incidental to and secondary to its use for dwelling purposes
and provided that:
      (1)   No merchandise is displayed or stock maintained for sale;
      (2)   Office area shall not exceed 25% of the floor area of the main
building;
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided entirely within the side or
rear yard and fully screened from adjacent streets and properties; and
      (4)   Not more than one non-illuminated sign not exceeding eight square
feet in area shall be permitted; and such further requirements to protect the
residential character of the site and surrounding properties, as determined by
the Board of Adjustment.
   (G)   Private clubs, sororities, fraternities and lodges, excepting those
the chief activity of which is a service customarily carried on as a business;
and
   (H)   Trailer court or mobile home park.
(Ord. 1531, passed 8-14-2001)
§12-233 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All buildings shall set back from street right-of-way lines or lot lines to
comply with the following yard requirements.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   When a yard has a double frontage the front yard requirements shall
be complied with on both sides, except when rear access is denied.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwelling located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main dwelling of not less than five feet for dwellings of
one story and an additional five feet shall be provided on each side yard for
each additional story or part thereof.
      (2)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet; provided, however, that unattached one-story
buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than three
feet from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory building
are located more than 70 feet behind the front property line.
      (3)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15
feet in case such lot is back-to-back with another corner lot, and 20 feet in
every other case. The interior side yard shall be the same as for dwellings and
accessory buildings on an interior lot.
      (4)   Mobile home parks shall be planned in such a manner that no trailer
or related building shall be located closer than ten feet to any side lot line
which forms the boundary of the mobile home park.
      (5)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings and trailers, shall be set back from all
exterior and interior side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   For main buildings, other than garage apartments, there shall be a
rear yard of not less than 20 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever is
smaller. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear yard
of a main building, provided that no accessory building shall be located closer
than ten feet from the rear property line where no alley exists or closer than
five feet where an alley exists.
      (2)   Garage apartments may be located in the rear yard of another
dwelling but shall not be located closer than ten feet to the rear lot line
where no alley exists and not closer than five feet where an alley exists.
   (D)   Lot width. There shall be a minimum lot width of 50 feet at the front
building line for single-family dwellings and ten feet additional width at the
front building line for each family, more than one, occupying a dwelling.
However, a lot width at the front building line shall not be required to exceed
150 feet. A lot shall abut on a street not less than 30 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   There shall be a lot area of not less than 6,000 square feet for a
single-family dwelling, not less than 7,000 square feet for a two-family
dwelling, and an additional area of not less than 2,000 square feet for each
dwelling more than two.
      (2)   There shall be a lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet where
a garage apartment is located on the same lot with a single-family dwelling.
When a garage apartment is located in the rear yard of a two-family or
multiple-family dwelling the lot area shall not be less than 2,000 square feet
more than is required for the two-family or multiple-family dwelling.
      (3)   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking area
required in this part; provided, however, that the lot area for a church shall
not be less than 40,000 square feet.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 35%
of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of the rear
yard.
§12-234 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height,
except as provided in §
12-362.
§12-235 R-4 RESIDENTIAL ESTATE DISTRICT.
   This district is intended to provide a location for those subdivisions which
are within the corporate limits of the city but beyond the service boundaries
of existing or potential sanitary sewage collection systems. The larger lot
sizes established herein are required in order to provide adequate light, air
and open space for homesites which rely chiefly upon private water supplies and
individual septic systems. Special attention should be given to see that
developments in this district are protected from intensified zoning once the
district has been established.
§12-236 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-4 Residential Estate District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main buildings,
including one detached garage, one pump house and one recreational building;
but not more than two accessory buildings exclusive of one pump house not to
exceed 100 square feet. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as
allowing barns or sheds for the keeping of livestock or other agriculturally
related machinery or material except where such livestock or agricultural
activity is confined to the property and maintained in accordance with all
other provisions of this district. In addition, all accessory buildings shall
be of the same or complementary material as the main dwelling and shall be
maintained in an attractive manner;
   (B)   Agricultural crops, provided that any crop or product produced or
grown on the premises is not sold on or near the lot on which it is produced;
   (C)   Church bulletin board or sign, not exceeding 15 square feet in area,
attached to the main building or located behind the front building line on the
same lot with the church building, when the church is an approved use permitted
on review;
   (D)   Detached one-family dwelling;
   (E)   Home occupation;
   (F)   One guesthouse, provided no cooking facilities are provided in this
house;
   (G)   Parking lot required to serve the uses permitted in this district;
   (H)   Temporary building of the construction industry which is incidental to
the erection of buildings permitted in this district, and which shall be
removed when construction work is completed;
   (I)   Temporary bulletin board or sign, not exceeding 12 square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, except those
signs used by a builder or subdivider to advertise the property during the
construction and sales period, which board or sign or signs shall be removed as
soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold. Such sign larger than 12 square
feet shall be approved by the Planning Commission for periods of one year with
renewal approved by the Planning Commission;
   (J)   The keeping of farm animals provided that:
      (1)   There shall be a gross lot area of one acre per animal unit;
      (2)   All animals shall be kept 80 feet from the front lot line and 25
feet from other lot lines;
      (3)   Poultry shall be limited to one area not exceeding 500 square feet
located behind the main structure;
      (4)   Excrement from all farm animals and poultry shall be disposed of in
such a manner as to prevent the breeding of insects or creation of odors; and
      (5)   An animal unit is as defined by A.D. Cullinson, “Feed and Feeding,”
1965.
   (K)   The keeping of horses provided that:
      (1)   There shall be a gross lot area of one acre per animal unit;
      (2)   All horses shall be kept at least 80 feet from the front lot line
by means of a suitable fence;
      (3)   Excrement from all horses shall be disposed of in such a manner as
to prevent the breeding of insects or creation of odors; and
      (4)   An animal unit is as defined by A.D. Cullinson, “Feed and Feeding,”
1975.
   (L)   Transportation and utility easements, alleys and rights-of-way.
§12-237 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   (A)   It is the intent of these regulations that uses permitted on review be
located on high standard streets or have access from a major street as
indicated in the major street plan for the city. Churches, public or private
recreational facilities or municipal facilities which are open to the public
shall not be so located as to have their primary access from reduced standard
residential estate streets.
   (B)   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with the
provisions of this part and the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Daycare home (family daycare home) or daycare center as provided
for in §
12-222;
      (2)   Golf course or country club, but not a driving range, pitch and
putt course or miniature golf operation;
      (3)   Home beauty shop located in a dwelling, provided such shop is
conducted within the main dwelling, and is operated only by the inhabitants
thereof, and does not exceed one operator. The use shall be conducted in such a
way that it is clearly incidental to the dwelling use and shall not change the
character thereof. No sign shall be permitted except one non-illuminated
nameplate not exceeding two square feet in area, attached to the main building;
      (4)   Municipal use, public building and public utility;
      (5)   Plant nursery in which no building or structure is maintained in
connection therewith; and
      (6)   Private recreation facility operated on a nonprofit basis for the
residents of the subdivision or immediate area.
(Ord. 1427, passed 2-25-1997)
§12-238 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following yard requirements shall apply.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   The minimum front yard depth shall be 40 feet. Those lots fronting
upon a major street, or section line road, shall set back a minimum of 40 feet
from the right-of-way line or the proposed street right-of-way as established
in the major street plan, or 80 feet from the centerline, whichever is greater.
      (2)   When a lot has double frontage, the front yard setback as
established in division (A)(1) above shall apply to both frontages and all
accessory buildings.
      (3)   When at least 60% of the lots in an area, or block, have been built
with a setback of greater than 40 feet, no structure shall be built nearer the
front property line than the average depth of the existing structures without
Board of Adjustment approval.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   The minimum width of any side yard shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   On any corner lot, there shall be a setback of at least 40 feet
from the right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
      (3)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings shall set back from all exterior and interior
side lot lines a distance of not less than 50 feet.
      (4)   On any corner lot which abuts a major street, there shall be a
minimum side yard setback for all main or accessory buildings of 60 feet from
the right-of-way line or the proposed street right-of-way line as established
in the major street plan, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of at least 30 feet; accessory
buildings shall set back at least 25 feet from any utility easement, alley,
rear lot line or reserve for future street or easement purposes.
   (D)   Lot width.
      (1)   Lots of less than two acres shall have a minimum frontage or width
at the building line of 150 feet.
      (2)   Lots of two acres or greater shall have a minimum frontage or width
at the building line of 200 feet.
      (3)   All lots shall abut upon a street for a minimum distance of 70
feet, except that on a cul-de-sac turnaround this may be reduced to 50 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   There shall be a lot area of not less than one acre, except that
where a lot or parcel has area less than herein required and all boundary lines
of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the effective date of this
article that lot may be used for the uses permitted by this section.
      (2)   For churches and main and accessory buildings other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and off-street parking areas required
in §
12-373.
   (F)   Lot depth. The maximum depth of any lot shall not be more than three
times its width or 600 feet, whichever is the lesser.
   (G)   Limits on buildings. Not more than one main building, one guesthouse
and two accessory buildings, but not including 100 square foot pump house,
shall be allowed on any one lot. In all cases, the main building must be under
construction before erection of any accessory buildings.
   (H)   Height regulations. No buildings shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet in height except as provided in this part.
   (I)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20%
of the lot area of any lot within this district.
ARTICLE D. COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS (C)
§12-240 C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING DISTRICT.
   The C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District is for the conduct of retail trade
and personal service enterprises to meet the regular needs and for the
convenience of the people of adjacent residential areas. Because these shops
and stores may be an integral part of the neighborhood closely associated with
residential, religious and educational uses, more restrictive requirements for
light, open air space and off-street parking are made than are provided in
other commercial districts.
§12-241 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted on review in an R-3 Residential District;
   (B)   Any use permitted in an R-3 Residential District;
   (C)   Retail stores and shops which do not exceed 14,000 square feet of
gross floor area and which supply the regular and customary needs of the
residents of the neighborhood and which are primarily for their convenience as
follows:
      (1)   Antique shop;
      (2)   Apparel store, family, children, men or women;
      (3)   Appliance store;
      (4)   Artists’ materials, supply studio;
      (5)   Arts school, gallery or museum;
      (6)   Automobile parking lot;
      (7)   Baby shop;
      (8)   Bakery goods store;
      (9)   Banking and financing institutions;
      (10)   Barbershop;
      (11)   Beauty shop;
      (12)   Book or stationery store;
      (13)   Camera shop;
      (14)   Candy store;
      (15)   Catering establishment;
      (16)   Cleaning, pressing and laundry collection agency;
      (17)   Curio or gift shop;
      (18)   Dairy products or ice cream store;
      (19)   Delicatessen;
      (20)   Dress shop;
      (21)   Drugstore or fountain;
      (22)   Dry goods store;
      (23)   Florist shop, greenhouse, nursery;
      (24)   Furniture store;
      (25)   Gift shop;
      (26)   Grocery store or supermarket;
      (27)   Hardware store;
      (28)   Jewelry or notion store;
      (29)   Key shop;
      (30)   Leather goods shop;
      (31)   Liquor store;
      (32)   Lodge hall;
      (33)   Meat market;
      (34)   Medical facility;
      (35)   Messenger or telegraph service;
      (36)   Music store;
      (37)   Newspaper or magazine sales;
      (38)   Office business;
      (39)   Optometrist sales and service;
      (40)   Paint and interior decorating store, but not a paint shop;
      (41)   Pharmacy;
      (42)   Photographer studio;
      (43)   Radio and television sales and service;
      (44)   Restaurant or cafeteria;
      (45)   Self-service laundry or dry-cleaning;
      (46)   Sewing machine sales, instruction and service;
      (47)   Shoe repair shop;
      (48)   Sporting goods store;
      (49)   Tailor shop;
      (50)   Toy store; and
      (51)   Variety store.
   (D)   Advertising signs and structures:
      (1)   One business sign, not exceeding 32 square feet in display area may
be erected on each street frontage of the lot. If this sign is pole mounted, it
shall not exceed the height of the building in which the principal use is
located, or 20 feet, whichever is lower;
      (2)   One wall sign may be erected on the primary structure not exceeding
an aggregate display surface area equal to two square feet per linear foot of
street frontage; total sign size is limited to 65% of the total wall area of
the wall to which the sign is attached;
      (3)   No signs advertising products not sold on the premises will be
permitted; and
      (4)   No signs shall be permitted upon lots not containing one business
establishment.
   (E)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses;
and
   (F)   A building used for any of the above enumerated uses may not have more
than 40% of its floor area devoted to purposes incidental to the primary use.
No material or goods offered for sale or stored in connection with the uses
enumerated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be displayed or stored
outside of a building.
(Ord. 1452, passed 1-13-1998)
§12-242 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with the
provisions contained in this part:
   (A)   Automated and/or self-service car wash; and
   (B)   Self-service gasoline pumps.
(Ord. 1516, passed 12-12-2000)
§12-243 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The area requirements for dwellings shall be the same as the requirements of
the R-3 General Residential District. The following requirements shall apply to
all other uses permitted in this district.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall set back from the street right-of-way
line to provide a front yard having not less than 25 feet in depth.
   (B)   Side yard. On the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district there
shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet. There shall be a side yard
setback from an intersecting street of not less than 20 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear yard
or combination thereof of not less than 20 feet with 30 feet recommended.
§12-244 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height,
except as hereinafter provided in §
12-362.
§12-245 C-2 OFFICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   This commercial district is intended to provide a place for those types of
institutional and commercial activities that require separate buildings and
building groups surrounded by landscaped yards and open area. Land, space and
aesthetic requirements of these uses make desirable a location near residential
neighborhoods or rural countryside, and away from the concentration of people
and traffic of the retail, wholesale and industrial areas of the community.
§12-246 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-2 Office Commercial District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in an R-3 General Residential District;
   (B)   Any of the following uses:
      (1)   Adult daycare center, as provided in §
12-232;
      (2)   Apartment hotel;
      (3)   Art gallery;
      (4)   Assembly halls;
      (5)   Banking and financing institutions;
      (6)   Barbershop;
      (7)   Beauty shop;
      (8)   Business colleges;
      (9)   Daycare centers and homes as provided in §
12-222;
      (10)   Drugstores and fountains;
      (11)   Hotel;
      (12)   Laboratories for research and testing;
      (13)   Libraries;
      (14)   Medical facility;
      (15)   Museums;
      (16)   Music conservatories;
      (17)   Office buildings and office business in which no activity is
carried on catering to retail trade and the general public, and no stock of
goods is maintained for sale to customers. These include, but shall not
necessarily be limited to, doctors, dentists, lawyers, architects and
engineers; provided, however, that this shall in no way be construed as
permitting undertaking establishments and funeral homes;
      (18)   Parking lot;
      (19)   Post office;
      (20)   Public and private schools and colleges with students in residence
and dormitories associated therewith;
      (21)   Restaurant designed to serve the people conducting business
activities in this district;
      (22)   Studios for professional work and including the teaching of any
form of fine arts, such as music, drama, dance, photography, but not including
a commercial gymnasium; and
      (23)   Trade schools and schools for vocational training.
   (C)   Recreational uses associated with and maintained primarily for the
benefit and use of the occupants and families of the uses listed under division
(B) above;
   (D)   Shops and stores associated with and maintained primarily for the
benefit and use of the occupants and families of the uses listed under division
(B) above;
   (E)   Buildings and structures and uses customarily incidental and accessory
to the above uses; and
   (F)   Advertising signs and structures:
      (1)   (a)   One business sign, not exceeding 32 square feet in display
area may be erected on each street frontage of the lot.
         (b)   If this sign is pole mounted, it shall not exceed the height of
the building in which the principal use is located, or 20 feet, whichever is
lower;
      (2)   One wall sign may be erected on the primary structure not exceeding
an aggregate display surface area equal to two square feet per linear foot of
street frontage; total sign size limited to 65% of the total wall area of the
wall to which the sign is attached;
      (3)   No signs advertising products not sold on the premises will be
permitted; and
      (4)   No signs shall be permitted upon lots not containing one business
establishment.
(Ord. 1452, passed 1-13-1998; Ord. 1508, passed 6-27-2000; Ord. 1531, passed 8-
14-2001)
§12-247 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The area requirements for dwellings and buildings accessory thereto
shall be the same as the area requirement for the R-3 General Residential
District.
   (B)   The following requirements shall apply to all other uses permitted in
this district.
      (1)   Front yard. All buildings shall set back from the street right-of-
way line to provide a front yard having not less than 25 feet in depth.
      (2)   Side yard. Where a side yard is adjacent to a dwelling district no
building shall be located closer than 30 feet to the side lot line. In all
other cases no building shall be located closer than 20 feet to the side lot
line.
      (3)   Rear yard. No building shall be located closer than 20 feet to the
rear lot line.
      (4)   Coverage. The total gross floor area of the main building shall not
exceed three times the area of the lot.
§12-248 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations for dwellings shall be the same as those of the R-
3 General Residential District.
   (B)   No building or structure shall exceed eight stories or 90 feet in
height, except as hereinafter provided in §
12-341.
§12-250 C-3 PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT.
   This commercial district is intended for a unified grouping, in one or more
buildings, of retail shops and stores that provide for the regular needs and
are for the convenience of the people residing in the adjacent residential
neighborhoods. It is intended that the planned shopping center be developed as
a unit, with adequate off-street parking space for customers and employees, and
with appropriate landscaping and screening materials.
§12-251 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-3 Planned Shopping Center District shall be
used only for the uses enumerated below; provided, however, that these uses
shall be located in a unified shopping center which shall have not less than
five shops and stores, at least one of which shall be a supermarket or variety
store, or junior department store of not less than 10,000 square feet of gross
floor area. The shops and stores of the shopping center shall have a combined
total gross floor area of not less than 20,000 square feet and shall be located
on a tract of land of not less than two and one-half acres in area:
   (A)   Any of the following uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Antique shop;
      (2)   Apparel store, family, children, men or women;
      (3)   Appliance shop;
      (4)   Artist’s supplies;
      (5)   Automobile parking lot;
      (6)   Bakery goods store;
      (7)   Bank;
      (8)   Barbershop;
      (9)   Beauty shop;
      (10)   Book or stationery store;
      (11)   Camera store;
      (12)   Catering establishment;
      (13)   Cleaning and pressing collection station;
      (14)   Curio shop;
      (15)   Dairy products or ice cream store;
      (16)   Delicatessen;
      (17)   Drugstore or fountain;
      (18)   Dry goods store;
      (19)   Florist shop;
      (20)   Furniture store;
      (21)   Garden supply store;
      (22)   Gift shop;
      (23)   Grocery store;
      (24)   Hardware store;
      (25)   Jewelry store;
      (26)   Junior department store;
      (27)   Key shop;
      (28)   Leather goods shop;
      (29)   Liquor store;
      (30)   Meat market;
      (31)   Medical facility;
      (32)   Messenger and telegraph office;
      (33)   Music store;
      (34)   Newspaper or magazine sales;
      (35)   Notions store;
      (36)   Office supply store;
      (37)   Optometrists’ sales and service;
      (38)   Paint and decorating shop;
      (39)   Pharmacy;
      (40)   Photographer studio;
      (41)   Radio and television sales and service;
      (42)   Restaurant;
      (43)   Self-service laundry and dry-cleaning;
      (44)   Sewing machine sales, service and instruction;
      (45)   Shoe store or repair shop;
      (46)   Sporting goods sales;
      (47)   Supermarket;
      (48)   Tailor shop;
      (49)   Theater;
      (50)   Toy store; and
      (51)   Variety store.
   (B)   Office uses; provided, however, that the total gross floor area of all
office uses, exclusive of those listed in division (A) above, shall not exceed
20% of the gross floor area of the shopping center;
   (C)   Gasoline service or filling station; provided that it is designed as
an integral part of the shopping center building group;
   (D)   Advertising signs relating to the shopping center, the stores and
shops therein and products sold therein. All advertising signs and structures
shall be designed as an integral part of the shopping center development and
shall be harmonious with the other design features of the center; and
   (E)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
§12-252 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum area. The parcel of land on which a planned shopping center is
located shall not be less than two and one-half acres in area.
   (B)   Yards. It is intended that the grouping of buildings and parking areas
to be designed to protect, insofar as possible, adjacent residential areas and
that ornamental screening from noise and light be provided where necessary;
provided, however, that in no case shall the design of the shopping center
provide less than the following standards:
      (1)   All buildings shall set back from all street right-of-way lines not
less than 25 feet;
      (2)   On the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district, there shall be
a side yard of not less than 25 feet; and
      (3)   There shall be a rear yard, alley, service court or combination
thereof, of not less than 20 feet in width and 30 feet recommended, and all of
the service area of all buildings shall be screened from public view with
ornamental screening materials.
   (C)   Coverage. Buildings shall not cover more than 40% of the site on which
the shopping center is located.
§12-253 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories, or 35 feet in height,
except as hereinafter provided in §
12-362.
§12-254 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The off-street parking requirements set forth in §
12-368, may be complied with providing a permanent, common off-street parking
facility for all of the uses within the shopping center, provided that the lot
contains the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total number of
spaces provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements;
provided, however, that in no case shall the amount of off-street parking area,
including driveways required for ingress and egress and circulation, be less
than three and one-half times the gross floor area used for retail trades in
the shopping center.
§12-255 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   An application for rezoning for a planned shopping center shall
include the following, in addition to the administrative requirements set forth
in §
12-391:
      (1)   The developer shall submit site plans of the proposed development
which shall be adequate in detail to determine compliance with the provisions
of this section; and which shall show the arrangement of buildings, types of
shops and stores, design and circulation pattern of the off-street parking
area, and utility and drainage easements and facilities; and the relationship
of the shopping center development to adjacent areas which it may affect; and
      (2)   Evidence that indicates, to the satisfaction of the City Council
and Planning Commission, the ability and intent of the developer to carry out
the development of the shopping center in accordance with the plans submitted
in accordance with division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   Development procedures are as follows.
      (1)   The developer shall obtain a building permit for the shopping
center in accordance with the requirements and procedure of §
12-387 and shall begin construction of the shopping center within two years
after the effective date of rezoning for the shopping center and shall make a
reasonable and continuous progress toward completion. If the shopping center is
not under construction within two years after the effective date of the
shopping center rezoning, the Planning Commission shall review the status of
the development, and if it shall find that the developer cannot proceed
immediately with the development, in conformity with the requirements of this
section, this fact and the reasons thereof shall be reported to the City
Council. The City Council may, at its discretion, rezone the shopping center
district to a zoning district classification consistent with the general plan.
      (2)   Any substantial deviation from the plans submitted at the time of
rezoning shall constitute a violation of the building permit authorizing
construction of the shopping center. Substantial changes in plans shall be
resubmitted to the City Council and the Planning Commission to ensure
compliance with the requirements and purpose and intent of this section, and no
building permit shall be issued for any construction which is not in
substantial conformity with the approved plan.
§12-256 C-4 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The C-4 General Commercial District is intended for the conduct of personal
and business services and the general retail business of the community. Persons
living in the community and in the surrounding trade territory require direct
and frequent access. Traffic generated by the uses will be primarily passenger
vehicles and those trucks and commercial vehicles required for stocking and
delivery of retail goods.
§12-257 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in a C-4 General Commercial District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in C-1, C-2 or C-3 District;
   (B)   Amusement enterprises;
   (C)   New automobile sales and services; new machinery sales and service;
public garages, provided no gasoline is stored aboveground; and used automobile
and machinery sales and service, and automobile and machinery repairing if
conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, but not including
automobile or machinery wrecking establishments or junkyards;
   (D)   Any of the following businesses:
      (1)   Advertising signs or structures:
         (a)   One wall or canopy sign may be erected, not exceeding an
aggregate surface display area of three square feet per each linear foot of
building wall to which the sign is affixed; total sign size is limited to 65%
of the total wall area of the wall to which the sign is attached;
         (b)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted above, a lot
containing one business establishment may erect pole or ground signs of two
square feet of display area per linear foot of street frontage; provided,
however, that if more than one such pole or ground sign is erected, an
aggregate display area not exceeding one square foot per linear foot of street
frontage shall be allowed;
         (c)   Ground or pole signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height; and
         (d)   No signs advertising products not sold on the premises will be
permitted.
      (2)   Ambulance service, office or garage;
      (3)   Auto court or tourist court;
      (4)   Automobile car wash;
      (5)   Automobile service station;
      (6)   Bait sales;
      (7)   Bakery;
      (8)   Bathhouse;
      (9)   Boat sales;
      (10)   Bus terminal;
      (11)   Cleaning plant;
      (12)   Clothing or apparel store;
      (13)   Commercial school or hall;
      (14)   Department store;
      (15)   Drive-in theater or restaurant;
      (16)   Electric transmission station;
      (17)   Feed and fuel store;
      (18)   Frozen food locker;
      (19)   Funeral parlor or mortuary;
      (20)   Furniture repair and upholstery;
      (21)   Golf course, miniature or practice range;
      (22)   Heating, ventilating or plumbing supplies, sales and service;
      (23)   Hotel;
      (24)   Ice storage locker plant or storage house for food;
      (25)   Laundry;
      (26)   Liquefied petroleum gas;
      (27)   Motel retail sales meeting city and state regulations;
      (28)   Museums;
      (29)   Novelty shop;
      (30)   Nursery or garden supply store;
      (31)   Office business;
      (32)   Outdoor advertising signs;
      (33)   Pawnshop;
      (34)   Pet shop;
      (35)   Printing plant;
      (36)   Recreation center;
      (37)   Research laboratories;
      (38)   Sign painting;
      (39)   Skating rink;
      (40)   Theater;
      (41)   Travel trailer park;
      (42)   Used automobile sales; and
      (43)   Wholesale distributing center.
   (E)   Buildings, structures and uses accessory and customarily incidental to
any of the above uses, provided that there shall be no manufacture, processing
or compounding of products other than such as are customarily incidental and
essential to retail establishments;
   (F)   Any other store or shop for retail trade or for rendering personal,
professional or business service which does not produce more noise, odor, dust,
vibration, blast or traffic than those enumerated above; and
   (G)   No article or material stored in connection with uses permitted under
this section shall be stored or displayed outside of a building unless it is so
screened by permanent ornamental walls, fences or planting that it cannot be
seen from adjoining streets or lots when viewed by a person standing on ground
level; provided, however, that no screening in excess of seven feet in height
shall be required.
(Ord. 1438, passed 5-27-1997; Ord. 1452, passed 1-13-1998; Ord. 1487, passed 6-
22-1999)
§12-258 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with the
provisions contained in this part:
   (A)   Dance hall;
   (B)   Hospital for small animals;
   (C)   Kennel;
   (D)   Laboratories, testing and experimental;
   (E)   Nightclub;
   (F)   Propane dispensary;
   (G)   Storage warehouse, subject to the conditions specified in §
12-260;
   (H)   Tattoo parlor or body piercing establishment;
   (I)   Tavern; and
   (J)   Towers.
(Ord. 1756, passed 8-23-2016)
Cross-reference:
   See also § 12-390(B)
§12-259 OPEN DISPLAY USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in the C-4 General Commercial
District, provided that they comply with the additional provisions of this
section:
      (1)   Boat sales and service;
      (2)   Farm implement machinery, new and used, sales;
      (3)   Metal and wood fencing, or ornamental grillwork and decorative
wrought iron work and play equipment sales;
      (4)   Mobile home and travel trailer sales;
      (5)   Monument sales;
      (6)   New and used automobile sales;
      (7)   Prefabricated house sales; and
      (8)   Trailers for hauling, rental and sales.
   (B)   The uses enumerated in division (A) above shall comply with the
following provisions:
      (1)   (a)   All open storage and display of merchandise, material and
equipment shall be so screened by ornamental fencing or evergreen planting that
it cannot be seen by a person standing on ground level adjacent to the side or
the rear of the lot on which the open storage or display occurs; provided,
however, that screening shall not be required in excess of seven feet in
height.
         (b)   All planting shall be kept neatly trimmed and maintained in good
condition at all times.
         (c)   Merchandise and materials which are not completely assembled or
which are not immediately and actively being offered for sale, in addition to
complying with the above screening requirements, shall be so screened by
ornamental fences or evergreen planting or by permanent buildings that it
cannot be seen from a public street;
      (2)   All yards, unoccupied with buildings or merchandise or used as
trafficways, shall be landscaped with grass or shrubs and maintained in good
condition the year round;
      (3)   All of the lot used for the parking of vehicles, for the storage
and display of merchandise and all driveways used for vehicle ingress and
egress shall be paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a
manner that no dust will be produced by continued use;
      (4)   All servicing of vehicles carried on as an incidental part of the
sales operation shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building;
      (5)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not exceed 25 feet in
width, exclusive of curb returns; and
      (6)   Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an arrangement of
reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere with adjacent
land uses or the use of adjacent streets.
§12-260 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The front, side and rear yard regulations for residential uses shall
be the same as the requirements of the R-3 General Residential District.
   (B)   Whenever property in this district abuts or is separated only by a
street or alley from property within a residential or agricultural district,
issuance of building permits thereon may be subject to approval of a
development plan by the Planning Commission as follows.
      (1)   The conditions of such approval may impose such front, side and
rear yard setbacks, screening, landscaping, driveway and parking area design
requirements as shall be deemed necessary to protect the character of the
adjacent properties; provided, that in no instance shall a setback of greater
than 25 feet from any property line be required.
      (2)   Conditions imposed by the Planning Commission shall be set forth in
the minutes of the Commission and shall have the same force and effect as if
set forth in these regulations.
   (C)   Except as provided above or in the major street plan, there are no
specific front or side yard requirements.
   (D)   There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear yard or
combination thereof, of not less than 20 feet with 30 feet recommended.
   (E)   Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to meet the off-
street parking requirements set forth in §
12-364.
   (F)   (1)   The City Council finds that while storage warehouses conform to
the general intent of this district, they are not the highest and best use of
the prime commercial frontage property of the district. Further, the location
of such warehouses directly on certain street frontages detracts from the
appearance and character of the community.
      (2)   It is, therefore, the policy of the city that storage warehouses in
this district shall comply with the following conditions.
         (a)   Notwithstanding the zoning of the abutting property, the
property owner or developer shall submit a development plan subject to the
approval of, and the conditions established by, the Planning Commission in the
manner as provided in division (B) above.
         (a)   1.   Except as may be required for ingress and egress, or as
provided in division (F)(3) below, storage warehouses shall not be located on
any lot, parcel or tract of land which has any portion of its boundaries
situated within 300 feet of the right-of-way of a designated arterial in the
major street plan with an aggregate traffic count exceeding 10,000 vehicles per
day.
            2.   For purposes of verifying a traffic count, the Community
Development Director may take notice of data available to his or her office or
may require the owner/developer to obtain a traffic count at his or her
expense.
         (b)   Where storage warehouses are proposed as part of a planned unit
development pursuant to §§
12-340 through
12-342, such warehouses may be located on a lot, parcel or tract which is
closer to the designated arterial than specified in division (F)(2) above;
provided, that in all cases, said warehouses and accessory buildings shall be
set back from the right-of-way a minimum of 325 feet.
(Ord. 1486, passed 6-22-1999; Ord. 1511, passed 8-22-2000)
§12-261 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height,
except as hereinafter provided in §
12-362.
ARTICLE E. INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS (I)
§12-265 I-1 RESTRICTED MANUFACTURING AND WAREHOUSING DISTRICT.
   The I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District is intended for
manufacturing and assembly plants and warehousing that are conducted so the
noise, odor, dust and glare of each operation is completely confined within an
enclosed building. These industries may require direct access to rail, air or
street transportation facilities; however, the size and volume of the raw
materials and finished products involved should not produce the volume of
freight generated by the uses of the Light and Heavy Industrial Districts.
Buildings in this district should be architecturally attractive and surrounded
by landscaped yards.
§12-266 USES PERMITTED; USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   (A)   Permitted. Property and buildings in an I-1 District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use, except a residential use, permitted in a C-4 General
Commercial District. No dwelling uses except sleeping facilities for caretakers
and night watchpersons employed on the premises shall be permitted;
      (2)   Any of the following uses:
         (a)   Bakery;
         (b)   Bookbindery;
         (c)   Bottling works;
         (d)   Candy manufacturing;
         (e)   Commercial uses that are incidental and/or complement the
primary industrial use or manufacturing use of the property, which may include
the retail and wholesale of items made on the property and/or off-site;
         (f)   Electronic equipment assembly and manufacture;
         (g)   Engraving plant;
         (h)   Food products processing and packing;
         (i)   Furniture manufacturing;
         (j)   Instrument and meter manufacturing;
         (k)   Jewelry and watch manufacturing;
         (l)   Laundry and cleaning establishment;
         (m)   Leather goods fabrication;
         (n)   Optical goods manufacturing;
         (o)   Paper products manufacturing;
         (p)   Propane dispensary;
         (q)   Shoe manufacturing;
         (r)   Sporting goods manufacturing;
         (s)   Storage warehouse; and
         (t)   Wholesale or warehousing enterprise.
      (3)   All of the uses permitted under this section shall have their
primary operations conducted entirely within enclosed buildings, and shall not
emit any dust or smoke, or noxious odor or fumes outside of the building
housing the operation, or produce a noise level occurring on the adjacent
street. Any article or material stored temporarily outside of an enclosed
building as an incidental part of the primary operation shall be so screened by
ornamental walls and fences or evergreen planting that it cannot be seen from
adjoining public streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing at
ground level.
   (B)   Permitted on review. Towers.
(Ord. 1523, passed 3-13-2001; Ord. 1779, passed 6-26-2018)
§12-267 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All buildings shall be set back from the street right-of-way lines and lot
lines to comply with the following yard requirements.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall set back from the street right-of-way
line to provide a front yard having not less than 25 feet in depth.
   (B)   Side yard. No building shall be located closer than 25 feet to a side
lot line.
   (C)   Rear yard. No building shall be located closer than 25 feet to the
rear lot line.
   (D)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings and off-street parking and
loading facilities shall not cover more than 80% of the lot area.
   (E)   Landscaping. All yard areas required under this section and other
yards and open spaces existing around buildings shall be landscaped and
maintained in a neat condition.
   (F)   Plan approval. Whenever property in this district abuts or is
separated only by a street or alley from property within a residential or
agricultural district, issuance of building permits thereon may be subject to
approval of a development plan by the Planning Commission as follows.
      (1)   The conditions of such approval may impose such front, side and
rear yard setbacks, screening, landscaping, driveway and parking area design
requirements as shall be deemed necessary to protect the character of the
adjacent properties; provided, that in no instance shall a setback of greater
than 25 feet from any property line be required.
      (2)   Conditions imposed by the Planning Commission shall be set forth in
the minutes of the Commission and shall have the same force and effect as if
set forth in these regulations.
(Ord. 1486, passed 6-22-1999)
§12-268 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure shall exceed 90 feet in height, except as
hereinafter provided in §
12-362.
§12-269 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   One wall or canopy sign may be erected, not exceeding an aggregate
surface display area of three square feet per each linear foot of building wall
to which the sign is affixed; total sign size is limited to 65% of the total
wall area of the wall to which the sign is attached.
   (B)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted above, a lot
containing one business establishment or vacant lot may utilize for business
sign or outdoor advertising one projecting or ground sign of two square feet of
display surface area per linear foot of street frontage; provided, however,
that if more than one such pole or ground sign is erected, an aggregate display
area not exceeding one square foot of display surface area per linear foot of
street frontage shall be allowed.
   (C)   Ground or pole signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 1452, passed 1-13-1998)
§12-270 I-2 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The I-2 Light Industrial District is intended primarily for the
conduct of manufacturing, assembling and fabrication.
   (B)   These uses do not depend primarily on frequent visits of customers or
clients, but usually require good accessibility to major rail, air or street
transportation facilities.
§12-271 USES PERMITTED; USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   (A)   Permitted. Property and buildings in an I-2 Light Industrial District
shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the I-1 Restricted Manufacturing and
Warehousing District. No dwelling use, except sleeping facilities required by
caretakers or night watchpersons employed on the premises, shall be permitted
in an I-2 Light Industrial District;
      (2)   (a)   Any of the following uses:
            1.   Building materials sales yard and lumberyard, including the
sale of rock, sand, gravel and the like as an incidental part of the main
business, but not including a concrete batch plant or transit mix plant;
            2.   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors;
            3.   Farm produce, grain and feed storage including grain
elevators;
            4.   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
            5.   Oil field equipment storage yard;
            6.   Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or
transforming station; and
            7.   Sale barn.
         (b)   No article or material permitted in this division (A)(2) shall
be kept, stored or displayed outside of a building unless it be screened by
fences, walls or planting so that it cannot be seen from adjoining public
streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing on ground level
immediately adjacent to the lot on which the use is located; provided, however,
that screening shall not be required in excess of seven feet in height.
      (3)   The following uses, when conducted within a completely enclosed
building:
         (a)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radios and phonographs, including the manufacture of small parts only,
such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystal holders and the like;
         (b)   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning, body and fender works, truck repairing and overhauling, tire
retreading or recapping and battery manufacturing;
         (c)   Foundry casting lightweight nonferrous metal not causing noxious
fumes or odors;
         (d)   Machine shop;
         (e)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties and rubber
and metal stamps;
         (f)   The manufacture and maintenance of electric and neon signs,
commercial advertising structure, light sheet metal products, including heating
and ventilating ducts and equipment, cornices, eaves and the like;
         (g)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of
articles or merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone,
cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stone, shell,
textiles, tobacco, wood, yarn and paint not employing a boiling process;
         (h)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment
of such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products, drugs,
perfumes, pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries and food products;
and
         (i)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar
ceramic products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only
by electricity or gas.
      (4)   Buildings, structures and uses accessory and customarily incidental
to any of the above uses; and
      (5)   Commercial uses that are incidental and/or complement the primary
industrial use or manufacturing use of the property, which may include the
retail and wholesale of items made on the property and/or off-site.
   (B)   Requirements. The uses permitted under this section shall be conducted
in such a manner that no noxious odor, fumes or dust will be emitted beyond the
property line of the lot on which the use is located.
   (C)   Permitted on review. Towers.
(Ord. 1523, passed 3-13-2001; Ord. 1780, passed 6-26-2018)
§12-272 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front and side yard. There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses in this district; provided, however, that a building
shall set back a distance of not less than 25 feet from the side lot line that
adjoins a dwelling district.
   (B)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Where a building is to be serviced from the rear there shall be
provided an alley, service court, rear yard or combination thereof of not less
than 20 feet in width with 30 feet recommended, or of adequate area and width
to provide for maneuver of service vehicles, whichever is the greater.
      (2)   In all other cases no rear yard is required; provided, however,
that a building shall set back a distance of not less than 25 feet from the
rear lot line that adjoins a dwelling district.
   (C)   Yard area. Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to
meet the off-street parking requirements set forth in § 12-368.
   (D)   Plan approval. Whenever property in this district abuts or is
separated only by a street or alley from property within a residential or
agricultural district, issuance of building permits thereon may be subject to
approval of a development plan by the Planning Commission as follows.
      (1)   The conditions of such approval may impose such front, side and
rear yard setbacks, screening, landscaping, driveway and parking area design
requirements as shall be deemed necessary to protect the character of the
adjacent properties; provided, that in no instance shall a setback of greater
than 25 feet from any property line be required.
      (2)   Conditions imposed by the Planning Commission shall be set forth in
the minutes of the Commission and shall have the same force and effect as if
set forth in these regulations.
(Ord. 1486, passed 6-22-1999)
§12-273 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 90 feet in height, except as hereinafter provided
in §
12-362.
§12-274 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   One wall or canopy sign may be erected, not exceeding an aggregate surface
display area of three square feet per each linear foot of building wall to
which the sign is affixed; total sign size is limited to 65% of the total wall
area of the wall to which the sign is attached. In addition to the wall or
canopy signs permitted above, a lot containing one business establishment or
vacant lot may utilize for business sign or outdoor advertising one projecting
or ground sign of two square feet of display surface area per linear foot of
street frontage; provided, however, that if more than one such pole or ground
sign is erected, an aggregate display area not exceeding one square foot of
display surface area per linear foot of street frontage shall be allowed.
Ground or pole signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 1452, passed 1-13-1998)
§12-275 I-3 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   This industrial district is intended to provide for heavy industrial uses
and other uses not otherwise provided for in the districts established by this
chapter. The intensity of uses permitted in this district makes it most
desirable that they be located downwind and separated from residential and
commercial uses.
§12-276 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an I-3 Heavy Industrial District may be used for
any use except the following:
   (A)   All residential uses except sleeping facilities required by night
watchpersons and caretakers employed upon the premises; and
   (B)   All uses not complying with this chapter, or any other county, state
or federal regulation or law.
§12-277 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with the
provisions contained in this part:
   (A)   Cement, lime or gypsum manufacture;
   (B)   Commercial feed pens for livestock;
   (C)   Natural gas production and distribution;
   (D)   Petroleum production and refining;
   (E)   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline, propane or butane, or other
petroleum products;
   (F)   Disposal plants of all types, including trash and garbage, sewage
treatment, including lagoons, and compost plants;
   (G)   Property and buildings in an I-3 Heavy Industrial District, when
permitted on review for the following purposes, shall have the use thereon
conducted in such a manner that all operation, display or storage of material
or equipment is so screened by ornamental fences, walls or permanent evergreen
planting that it cannot be seen from a public street or from adjacent lots when
viewed by a person standing on ground level, provided, however, that no
screening in excess of seven feet in height shall be required:
      (1)   Automobile salvage or junk yard;
      (2)   Building materials salvage yard;
      (3)   Junk or salvage yard of any kind;
      (4)   Scrap metal storage yard; and
      (5)   Any use not otherwise authorized by this chapter.
   (H)   Towers.
(Ord. 1523, passed 3-13-2001)
§12-278 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There are no specific front or side yard requirements for uses in this
district.
   (B)   (1)   Where a building is to be serviced from the rear there shall be
provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard or combination thereof of not
less than 20 feet with 30 feet recommended or of adequate area and width to
provide for maneuver of service vehicles, whichever is the greater.
      (2)   In all other cases, no rear yard is required.
   (C)   Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to meet the off-
street parking requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Whenever property in this district abuts or is separated only by a
street or alley from property within a residential or agricultural district,
issuance of building permits thereon may be subject to approval of a
development plan by the Planning Commission as follows.
      (1)   The conditions of such approval may impose such front, side and
rear yard setbacks, screening, landscaping, driveway and parking area design
requirements as shall be deemed necessary to protect the character of the
adjacent properties; provided, that in no instance shall a setback of greater
than 25 feet from any property line be required.
      (2)   Conditions imposed by the Planning Commission shall be set forth in
the minutes of the Commission and shall have the same force and effect as if
set forth in these regulations.
(Ord. 1486, passed 6-22-1999)
§12-279 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Where a lot adjoins a dwelling district, the building shall not exceed 35
feet, unless it is set back ten feet from all front and side yard lines, plus
an additional one foot of setback for each foot of additional height above 45
feet, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
§12-280 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   One wall or canopy sign may be erected, not exceeding an aggregate
surface display area of three square feet per each linear foot of building wall
to which the sign is affixed; total sign size is limited to 65% of the total
wall area of the wall to which the sign is attached.
   (B)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted above, a lot
containing one business establishment or vacant lot may utilize for business
sign or outdoor advertising one projecting or ground sign of two square feet of
display surface area per linear foot of street frontage; provided, however,
that if more than one such pole or ground sign is erected, an aggregate display
area not exceeding one square foot of display surface area per linear foot of
street frontage shall be allowed.
   (C)   Ground or pole signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 1452, passed 1-13-1998)
ARTICLE F. OTHER DISTRICTS
§12-290 F-1 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is intended to encompass those lands lying within the
boundaries of the 100-year floodplains identified in the flood insurance study
for the city and provide regulations assuring appropriate land uses within this
district in order to minimize flood danger and loss to life and property.
   (B)   The uses permitted in this district are those allowed in the
underlying zoning district subject to the provisions of this district and the
flood hazard area development regulations of the city.
Cross-reference:
   See also Chapter 6 of this part
§12-291 APPLICATION AS AN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this district shall be in addition to those of the several
zoning districts of this chapter. Nothing in this district shall be construed
as permitting any uses of land which do not conform to the underlying zoning
district classification.
§12-292 BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED.
   The boundaries of this district are hereby established as those of the
floodways and 100-year floodplains established in exhibits 3 and 4 of the flood
insurance study for the city, as furnished by the federal insurance
administration, and subsequent amendments thereto, which are hereby made a part
of this chapter by reference and shall have the same force and effect as the
zoning districts map.
§12-293 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Floodway uses. Property located in a designated floodway shall be
restricted to uses having a low flood damage potential and not obstructing
flood flows to the extent that they conform to the underlying zoning district
and do not require structures, fences, fill or storage of equipment damaged by
periodic inundation or subject to flotation. No use shall adversely affect the
capacity of the floodway. Uses permitted are:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, such as the raising of crops, pasture, grazing
and outdoor plant nurseries; provided, that such uses may be permitted as a use
on review in residential, commercial and industrial zoning districts;
      (2)   Commercial and industrial uses such as loading areas, parking areas
and storage yards; but not including storage of automobiles for sale;
      (3)   Private and public recreational facilities; and
      (4)   Residential accessory uses such as lawns, gardens and parking
areas.
   (B)   Flood fringe uses. Property located in the flood fringe may be used
for any use allowed in the underlying zoning district; provided, that all
buildings and structures shall be evaluated or protected from flooding or flood
damage in conformance with the provisions of the flood hazard area development
regulations of the city.
§12-294 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to issuance of building permits for any property in the F-1 Floodplain
District, an approved development permit as required in the flood hazard area
development regulations of the city shall be submitted to the building
inspector.
§12-295 CHANGE OF ZONING MAP FOR F-1 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   Property currently within the F-1 Floodplain District shall be rezoned to
its zoning district classification prior to its designation as being within the
F-1 Floodplain District and the zoning districts map be amended to reflect the
change.
§12-296 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The flood hazard area regulations of the city, as adopted by the
Metropolitan Area Planning Commission are hereby adopted by reference and shall
have the same force and effect as if specifically stated herein, adopted and
codified in whole within this part.
   (B)   The flood hazard area regulations herein adopted shall be codified in
this part, a true and accurate copy to be filed with the City Clerk.
§12-297 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH FLOOD HAZARD REGULATION; OFFENSE.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the provisions of the flood hazard area
development regulations shall be an offense against the city, the same as if
the regulations were adopted and codified in whole within this part.
   (B)   Each day in which any person, firm or corporation maintains any
development, in violation of the flood hazard area development regulations,
shall be deemed a separate offense subject to a fine as provided in §
1-108.
§ 12-298 [RESERVED].
§ 12-299 [RESERVED].
§12-300 T-C TOURIST COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   T-C Tourist Commercial District zoning is intended to accommodate the
grouping of those commercial activities necessary to supply the normal needs of
tourists, and to protect these against other incompatible commercial uses. This
district is intended to be located in defined areas, adjacent or convenient to
arterials and arterial highways and at the intersection of arterials or
arterial highways and roads leading into primary entrances of major public
recreational area.
§12-301 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Art supply store and hobby shop;
   (B)   Bait shop (live bait);
   (C)   Boat and marine sales and service;
   (D)   Cafeteria or restaurant;
   (E)   Drive-in restaurant;
   (F)   Gift, novelty or souvenir store;
   (G)   Hotel, motel, tourist court;
   (H)   Ice dispensing machine (and other outdoor type automatic vending
machines);
   (I)   Laundry or dry-cleaning pick up stations;
   (J)   Laundry, self-service;
   (K)   Miniature golf course;
   (L)   Mobile home court or park, trailer court;
   (M)   Municipal building, public building;
   (N)   Offices accessory to main use;
   (O)   Parking lot or structure, noncommercial accessory to and within 200
feet;
   (P)   Parks or playgrounds;
   (Q)   Service station; and
   (R)   Sporting goods store.
§ 12-302 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted on review:
   (A)   Bar, lounge or tavern, private club;
   (B)   Beauty shop, barbershop;
   (C)   Dance hall;
   (D)   Drugstore or pharmacy;
   (E)   Grocery, supermarket, delicatessen;
   (F)   Group fallout shelter, bomb or tornado;
   (G)   Liquor store; retail outlet;
   (H)   Theater, drive-in, provided that no part of the theater screen,
projection booth or other building shall be located closer than 500 feet to any
residential district, or closer than 50 feet to any exterior property line or
public right-of-way; and no parking space shall be located closer than 100 feet
to any residential district; and
   (I)   Theater, indoor.
§12-303 ADVERTISING SIGNS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory signs (signs relating to businesses or goods sold on the
property on which they are located) shall not be greater in area than 400
square feet, provided, that for every five feet of height above 20 feet, the
sign shall be reduced in area by 100 square feet. Such signs shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to the front property line of any street right-of-
way. Provided, further, that the signs shall have no moving or flashing lights
or colors if located within 250 feet of and viewable from any residential
district.
   (B)   Temporary advertising signs no greater than 20 square feet in area
advertising the sale of the land or homes on which the signs are located, so
long as the signs be forthwith removed upon the sale and conveyance of the land
or homes.
§12-304 OTHER USES.
   Any use which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, would be similar
in character to those above enumerated and is not more obnoxious or detrimental
to the area in which it is located, by reason of noise, offensive odor, smoke,
dust, vibration, traffic congestion or danger to life and property than those
uses enumerated above.
§12-305 AREA AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum front yard, side yard, rear yard and the maximum coverage for
the buildings shall be determined by the plot plan approved by the City
Council.
§12-306 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   There shall be no height limit for any building or structure in this
district.
§12-307 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no outdoor storage, display or use within any required
front, side or rear yard setback other than parking, loading and unloading and
landscaping, except that signs shall be governed as set forth above.
   (B)   Off-street parking requirements are as follows.
Art supply store and hobby shop     1 per 150 square feet of floor area
Bait shop (live bait)               1 per 100 square feet of floor area
                                    1 per 2 seats based upon maximum seating
Bar, lounge or tavern, private club capacity plus 1 per 2 employees based
                                    upon the maximum shift
Beauty shop and barbershop          1 per 100 square feet of floor area
Boat and marine sales and service   1 per 150 square feet of floor area
                                    1 per 2 seats based upon maximum seating
Cafeteria or restaurant             capacity plus 1 per 2 employees based
                                    upon the maximum shift
Dance hall                          1 per 100 square feet of floor area
Drugstore or pharmacy               1 per 100 square feet of floor area
Gift, novelty or souvenir store     1 per 150 square feet of floor area
Grocery, supermarket, delicatessen  1 per 100 square feet of floor area
Hotel, motel, tourist court         1 per guestroom, plus 1 per 2 employees,
                                    based upon the maximum shift
Laundry or dry-cleaning pick up     1 per 200 square feet of floor area
stations
Laundry, self-service               1 per 100 square feet of floor area
Liquor store, retail outlet         1 per 100 square feet of floor area
Miniature golf course               1 per 500 square feet of lot area
Municipal building, public building 1 per employee plus 1 per 200 square
                                    feet of floor area
Service station                     2 plus 1 service vehicle plus 2 per
                                    service bay
Sporting goods                      1 per 150 square feet of floor area
Theater, indoor                     1 per 4 seats based upon maximum seating
                                    capacity
 
ARTICLE G. AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS (A)
§12-320 A-1 GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   This district is intended to provide an area primarily for agricultural uses
or the extraction of the various products such as oil, minerals, rock and
gravel from the earth. The rural nature and low density of population in this
district requires only that the buildings and extraction facilities related to
the uses of this district have a reasonable setback from streets and highways.
It is the purpose of this district to protect such uses from unplanned
urbanization so long as the land therein is devoted primarily to agriculture or
extraction of minerals.
§12-321 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an A-1 General Agricultural District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   One-family or two-family dwellings for farm owner, operator or
employee;
   (B)   All agricultural land uses, buildings and activities;
   (C)   Mining, quarrying and earth extraction industries;
   (D)   Oil well or gas well including the drilling thereof;
   (E)   Transportation, pipeline and utility easements and rights-of-way;
   (F)   Temporary roadside stands for the sale of farm products grown on the
premises; provided, however that up to one-third of the display area for
produce may be used for the sale of products not grown on the premises. The
temporary structure shall be required to set back from the roadway an adequate
distance to permit parking and ingress and egress and shall not be constructed
in such a location as would create an undue traffic hazard;
   (G)   All the following uses:
      (1)   Advertising signs:
         (a)   One wall or canopy sign may be erected, not exceeding an
aggregate surface display area of three square feet per each linear foot of
building wall to which the sign is affixed; total sign size is limited to 65%
of the total wall area of the wall to which the sign is attached;
         (b)   In addition to the wall signs permitted above, outdoor
advertising signs may be erected. One projecting or ground sign of two square
feet of display surface area per linear foot of street frontage is allowed;
provided, however, that if more than one such pole or ground sign is erected,
an aggregate display area not exceeding one square foot of display surface area
per linear foot of street frontage shall be allowed; providing further that no
single sign shall exceed 400 square feet in area; and
         (c)   Ground or pole signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
      (2)   Church;
      (3)   Home occupation;
      (4)   Kennel;
      (5)   Library;
      (6)   Municipal buildings and facilities and public utilities, but not
excluding storage yards or work yards;
      (7)   Park and playground or public recreation area;
      (8)   Plant nursery or greenhouse;
      (9)   School; and
      (10)   Sewage treatment plant and lagoon.
   (H)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building,
including barns, sheds and other farm buildings, private garages and accessory
buildings which are a part of the main building.
(Ord. 1452, passed 1-13-1998)
§12-322 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with the
provisions contained in this part:
   (A)   Airport or landing field;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast, principally used as a single-family home, with the
provision of guest lodging as a secondary feature and must conform to all the
following conditions:
      (1)   May be permitted in any residential or agricultural zoning
district;
      (2)   No more than four guest bedrooms may be provided;
      (3)   No individual cooking facilities may be installed in any guestroom;
      (4)   Meal service is limited to breakfast and limited to resident guests
only. Sale of food and beverages to other than overnight guests is strictly
prohibited;
      (5)   The owner shall reside on-premises;
      (6)   One parking space shall be provided for the owner-operator plus two
spaces for each four rooms that serve as guest bedrooms;
      (7)   Parking shall be located to the side or rear of the structure;
      (8)   Any proposed additions must be compatible with the architectural
style and building materials of the dwelling; and
      (9)   No lighting or signage may be installed which has not been reviewed
as part of the proposed development plan.
   (C)   Cemetery;
   (D)   Group home;
   (E)   Home beauty shop located in a dwelling, provided such shop is
conducted within the main building, and is operated only by the inhabitants
thereof, and does not exceed one operator. The use shall be conducted in such a
way that it is clearly incidental to the dwelling use and shall not change the
character thereof. No sign shall be permitted except one non-illuminated
nameplate not exceeding two square feet in area, attached to the main building;
   (F)   Private marina, boat docks, golf course or driving range, or other
private outdoor recreation activity;
   (G)   Public stable or riding academy;
   (H)   Sale barn or commercial feed pen for livestock;
   (I)   Towers; and
   (J)   Veterinary clinic.
(Ord. 1254, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 1414, passed 11-26-1996; Ord. 1523, passed
3-13-2001; Ord. 1819, passed 3-23-2021)
§12-323 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and mining operations, except roadside
stands for the sale of farm products grown on the premises, shall be set back
from road and street right-of-way lines to comply with the following front yard
requirements.
      (1)   All buildings shall set back from a state or federal highway or
county highway or section line road a minimum of 25 feet from the right-of-way
line or 75 feet from the centerline of the right-of-way easement, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   On all public roads or streets, other than federal, state or county
highways and section line roads, all buildings shall set back a minimum of 25
feet from the right-of-way line or 55 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way easement, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main building of not less than eight feet for dwellings of
one story and of not less than 12 feet for dwellings of more than one story,
except as hereinafter provided in §
12-362.
      (2)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than eight feet; provided, however, that unattached one-story
buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than three
feet from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory buildings
are located more than 70 feet behind the front lot line.
      (3)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15
feet in case such lot is back-to-back with another corner lot and 20 feet in
every other case. The interior side yard of a corner lot shall be the same as
for dwellings and accessory buildings on an interior lot.
      (4)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to the dwellings, shall set back from all exterior and
interior side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard for a main building of not less
than 20 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear yard of a main
building, but not closer than five feet to a rear lot line or not within a
utility easement.
§12-324 A-2 SUBURBAN DISTRICT.
   This district is intended to provide a location for the land situated on the
fringe of the urban area that is used for agricultural purposes, but will be
undergoing urbanization in the near future. Many tracts in this district will
be in close proximity to residential and commercial uses. Therefore, the
agricultural activities conducted in this district should not be detrimental to
urban land uses. It is not intended that this district provide a location for a
lower standard of residential, commercial or industrial development than is
authorized in other districts. The types of uses, required area and intensity
of use of land which is permitted in this district is designed to encourage and
protect agricultural uses so long as the land therein is devoted primarily to
agriculture.
§12-325 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an A-2 Suburban District shall be used only for
the following purposes:
   (A)   Detached one-family dwelling for farm owner, operator or employee;
   (B)   Church;
   (C)   Public school or school offering general educational courses the same
as ordinarily given in the public schools and having no rooms regularly used
for housing or sleeping;
   (D)   Agricultural crops;
   (E)   The raising of farm animals, but not the operation of commercial feed
pens for livestock. On all tracts of land containing less than ten acres the
raising of hogs shall be prohibited, and on all other tracts the number of hogs
weighing more than 25 pounds shall not exceed 20 grain-fed or three garbage-fed
hogs. Hogs shall not be located closer than 200 feet to the property line of
the tract on which they are located;
   (F)   Oil well or gas well, including the drilling thereof;
   (G)   All of the following uses:
      (1)   Country club and golf course;
      (2)   Home occupation;
      (3)   Library;
      (4)   Park or playground or public recreation area; and
      (5)   Plant nursery.
   (H)   Transportation, pipeline and utility easements and rights-of-way;
   (I)   Bulletin board or sign, not exceeding 40 square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which board
or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold; and
   (J)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building,
including barns, sheds and other farm buildings and private garages and
accessory buildings which are a part of the main building.
§12-326 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with the
provisions contained in this part:
   (A)   Airport or landing field;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast, principally used as a single-family home, with the
provision of guest lodging as a secondary feature and must conform to all the
following conditions:
      (1)   May be permitted in any residential or agricultural zoning
district;
      (2)   No more than four guest bedrooms may be provided;
      (3)   No individual cooking facilities may be installed in any guestroom;
      (4)   Meal service is limited to breakfast and limited to resident guests
only. Sale of food and beverages to other than overnight guests is strictly
prohibited;
      (5)   The owner shall reside on-premises;
      (6)   One parking space shall be provided for the owner-operator plus two
spaces for each four rooms that serve as guest bedrooms;
      (7)   Parking shall be located to the side or rear of the structure;
      (8)   Any proposed additions must be compatible with the architectural
style and building materials of the dwelling; and
      (9)   No lighting or signage may be installed which has not been reviewed
as part of the proposed development plan.
   (C)   Cemetery;
   (D)   Group home;
   (E)   (1)   Home beauty shop located in a dwelling, provided such shop is
conducted within the main building, and is operated only by the inhabitants
thereof, and does not exceed one operator. The use shall be conducted in such a
way that it is clearly incidental to the dwelling use and shall not change the
character thereof.
      (2)   No sign shall be permitted except one non-illuminated nameplate not
exceeding two square feet in area, attached to the main building;
   (F)   Kennel;
   (G)   Private marina, boat docks, golf course or driving range, or other
private outdoor recreation activity;
   (H)   Public stable or riding academy;
   (I)   Radio or television station;
   (J)   Sewage lagoon; and
   (K)   Towers.
(Ord. 1254, passed 12-17-1985; Ord. 1414, passed 11-26-1996; Ord. 1523, passed
3-13-2001)
§12-327 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from the street right-of-
way lines to comply with the following front yard requirements.
      (1)   All buildings shall set back from a state or federal highway,
county highway or section line road a minimum of 25 feet from the right-of-way
line or 75 feet from the centerline of the right-of-way easement, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   On all public roads or streets other than federal, state or county
highways and section line roads, all buildings shall set back a minimum of 25
feet from the right-of-way line or 55 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way easement, whichever is greater.
      (3)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be complied with on both streets, except when rear access is denied.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main building of not less than eight feet for dwellings of
one story, and of not less than 12 feet for dwellings of more than one story,
except as hereinafter provided in §
12-362.
      (2)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than eight feet; provided, however, that unattached one-story
buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than three
feet from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory building
are located more than 70 feet behind the front lot line.
      (3)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than 15
feet in case such lot is back-to-back with another corner lot and 20 feet in
every other case. The interior side yard of a corner lot shall be the same as
for dwellings and accessory buildings on an interior lot.
      (4)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings, shall set back from all exterior and interior
side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   There shall be a rear yard for a main building of not less than 20
feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
      (2)   Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear
yard of a main building, but not closer than five feet from the rear lot line.
   (D)   Lot width. For dwellings there shall be a minimum lot width of 50 feet
at the front building line, and such lot shall abut on a street for a distance
of not less than 30 feet.
   (E)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   For each dwelling and buildings accessory thereto, there shall be a
lot area of not less than two acres.
      (2)   For churches and main and accessory buildings other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking areas
required in §
12-364.
   (F)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30%
of the lot area on interior lots, and 35% of the lot area on corner lots;
accessory building shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
§12-328 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height
except as provided in §
12-362.
§12-329 AP AGRICULTURE PRESERVE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The AP Agriculture Preserve District is intended to provide an area
primarily for agricultural uses or the extraction of the various products such
as oil, minerals, rock and gravel from the earth on parcels of ten acres or
more in size. It is the purpose of this district to protect such uses from
urban densities and intensities of development principally in the Stagestand
Creek drainage basin and in areas with similar rural and agricultural
characteristics as the Stagestand Creek drainage basin. The district is
considered appropriate as the zoning district applied to rural areas annexed,
may be applied to existing areas characterized as rural or low density, and is
intended to implement the Highway 7 corridor study recommendations and preserve
the rural, agricultural nature rural and low density areas, while providing for
rural low density development that will require minimal public improvements and
services.
   (B)   Large lot residential subdivision tracts are permitted, but public
sewer is not provided, although public water may be available near boundaries
within the Claridy Creek drainage basin. Private sewage lagoons shall not be
considered an acceptable form of sewage disposal within the city limits. This
district is designed to encourage a wide variety of agricultural development
while restricting the subdivision of land into parcels too small to farm to
meet the definition of “agriculture” and/or “agriculture preserve.”
   (C)   It is not intended that this district provide a location for urban
service standards of residential development that is authorized in other
districts.
(Ord. 1558, passed 2-25-2003)
§12-330 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Advertising signs:
      (1)   A sign not exceeding 15 square feet in area attached to the main
building or located no closer than ten feet back from the right-of-way line on
the same lot with the main building, and with the height of the sign not to
exceed five feet; and
      (2)   No signs advertising products not sold on the premises will be
permitted.
   (B)   Any agricultural operation;
   (C)   Home occupation;
   (D)   Mining, quarrying and earth extraction industries;
   (E)   Oil well or gas well including the drilling thereof;
   (F)   One-family or two-family dwelling for agricultural property owner,
operator or farm employee;
   (G)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses;
   (H)   Temporary roadside stands for the sale of farm products grown on the
premises; provided, however that up to one-third of the display area for
produce may be used for the sale of products not grown on the premises. The
temporary structure shall be required to set back from the roadway an adequate
distance to provide parking off the street right-of-way and shall not be placed
in such a location as would create an undue traffic hazard; and
   (I)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above permitted uses when located on the same property.
(Ord. 1558, passed 2-25-2003)
§12-331 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   (A)   Aircraft landing field and associated facilities;
   (B)   Cemetery;
   (C)   Church;
   (D)   Commercial outdoor recreation facilities, including, but not limited
to, golf course, driving ranges, park facilities or other private outdoor
recreation activities;
   (E)   Commercial radio and television towers and transmitters;
   (F)   Community or government building;
   (G)   Hunting club or shooting preserve;
   (H)   Kennel for the raising of fur-bearing animals;
   (I)   Memorial garden;
   (J)   Park or recreational area operated by a governmental agency;
   (K)   Private stable or riding academy;
   (L)   Public or private school;
   (M)   Sale barn for livestock;
   (N)   Veterinary clinic; and
   (O)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above uses permitted on review when located on the same property.
(Ord. 1558, passed 2-25-2003)
§12-332 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and mining operations, except roadside
stands for the sale of farm products grown on the premises, shall be set back
from road and street right-of-way lines to comply with the following front yard
requirements.
      (1)   All buildings shall set back from a state or federal highway or
county highway or section line road a minimum of 50 feet from the right-of-way
line or 100 feet from the centerline of the right-of-way easement, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   On all public roads or streets, other than federal, state or county
highways and section line roads, all buildings shall set back a minimum of 25
feet from the right-of-way line or 55 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way easement, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard. All buildings shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from
the right-of-way line.
   (C)   Rear yard. All buildings shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from
the right-of-way line.
   (D)   Intensity of use. There shall be a lot area of not less than ten
acres.
   (E)   Coverage.
      (1)   Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of the
lot area on interior lots and more than 35% of the lot area on corner lots.
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
(Ord. 1558, passed 2-25-2003)
§12-333 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height,
except as provided in §
12-362.
(Ord. 1558, passed 2-25-2003)
§12-334 CO HIGHWAY 7 CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Highway 7 Corridor Overlay District to
prescribe additional regulations designed to protect and ensure compatible land
uses, rational infrastructure and public service development and a visually
appealing and scenic quality of development along the Highway 7 corridor
through the city in order to attract future residents, business and industry.
The specific regulations of any underlying zoning district or districts remain
applicable, except as specifically modified by this overlay district, in which
case the provisions of this overlay district shall control.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the ordinance creating the Highway 7
Corridor Overlay District, when any lot is partially located within the overlay
district, the remainder of the lot shall not be subject to the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 1559, passed 2-25-2003)
§12-335 OVERLAY DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The Highway 7 Corridor Overlay District shall include all properties located
within 660 feet each side of the centerline of Highway 7 connector route right-
of-way.
(Ord. 1559, passed 2-25-2003)
§12-336 USES PERMITTED.
   The Highway 7 Corridor Overlay District provisions apply to any base
district set forth in this chapter that exists within the defined overlay
district area.
(Ord. 1559, passed 2-25-2003)
§12-337 NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Front, side and rear yard setbacks. No structure of any kind or part
thereof shall be placed within the following setbacks from property lines of
any property abutting any Highway 7 connector right-of-way and/or located in
the Highway 7 corridor.
 
Location                                Minimum Setback
                                        50 feet back from the right-of-way line
All other streets right-of-way easement or 100 feet back from the centerline of
                                        the right-of-way easement, whichever is
                                        greater
Highway 7 connector right-of-way line   50 feet back from right-of-way line
Side and/or rear yard property line     50 feet back from the property line or
adjacent to a residential zoned         2 feet for each foot in building
district                                height, whichever is greater
 
   (B)   Outdoor storage and display of merchandise. No outdoor storage or
display of merchandise visible from the Highway 7 connector or its major access
roads shall be permitted in this overlay district. Any and all outdoor storage
or display areas shall be screened by a solid wall or fence at least six feet
in height designed to prevent visibility of the area from the Highway 7
connector and its major access roads. Such fence or wall shall not be used for
advertising purposes.
   (C)   Signage. Signage within the Highway 7 corridor shall be in compliance
with the following conditions:
      (1)   On-premises signs identifying the principal use and complying with
the underlying zoning district signage provisions shall be permitted within the
Highway 7 Corridor Overlay District.
      (2)   Off-premises signs, billboards and similar outdoor advertising
structures shall be prohibited within the Highway 7 Corridor Overlay District.
   (D)   On-site utilities. All on-site utilities, including, but not limited
to, electrical, telephone and cable, shall be installed as underground
facilities. This shall apply to utilities running from the utility easement or
street right-of-way to structures and to utilities supplying service between
structures.
   (E)   Existing uses and structures. Uses and structures in this district
that were conforming prior to the effective date hereof will remain legally
nonconforming upon adoption of the ordinance codified herein. New standards
effective upon adoption of the ordinance codified herein per the Highway 7
Corridor Overlay District shall be applied to building additions/expansions and
new development under building permits after the effective date hereof, except
as otherwise provided for under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1559, passed 2-25-2003)
ARTICLE H. PLANNED UNIT ZONING AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
§12-340 PURPOSE OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of planned unit development zoning (PUD) to encourage
unified design of housing, commercial, industrial or institutional areas and
facilities, or combinations thereof, to provide for integrated developments
having harmony of design and variety of function. It is not intended to permit
a greater density or uses different from those set forth in the regulations of
the district in which the development is located, but this section is to
provide for a greater flexibility in the design of buildings, yards, courts and
circulation than would otherwise be possible through the strict application of
district regulations, and to produce:
      (1)   A maximum choice in the types of environment and living units
available to the public;
      (2)   Open space and recreation areas;
      (3)   A pattern of development which preserves trees, outstanding natural
topography and geologic features, and prevents soil erosion;
      (4)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
development;
      (5)   An efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities
and streets and thereby lower housing costs;
      (6)   An environment of stable character in harmony with surrounding
development; and
      (7)   A more desirable environment than would be possible through the
strict application of other sections of this chapter.
   (B)   The planned unit development section is designed to provide for small-
and large-scale developments incorporating a single type or a variety of
residential and related uses which are planned and developed as a unit. Such
development may consist of individual lots or it may have common building
sites. A planned unit shall be a separate entity with a distinct character in
harmony with surrounding development.
§12-341 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORIZED.
   A planned unit development may be authorized under the provisions and
procedures below.
   (A)   Zoning District. A planned unit development shall be permitted in any
zoning district except the A-1 General Agricultural, A-2 Suburban or R-
4 Residential Estate Districts.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The uses permitted within a planned unit development
shall be restricted to those allowed within the zoning district or districts
within which it is located. However, the Planning Commission may recommend and
the City Council may, by ordinance approving the planned unit development,
establish more restrictive use requirements or limitations for all or portions
of a planned unit development, as may be necessary to protect and maintain the
character of the developments.
   (C)   Design characteristics.
      (1)   The design of a planned unit development shall provide for the
unified development of the area in accordance with the spirit and purpose of
the district or districts in which it is located. It may provide for the
modification of yard, setback and height requirements and individual lot or
building site coverage requirements, but the use, density, intensity of use and
overall coverage requirements for the district or districts in which the
planned unit development is located, and the minimum dimensions established for
the design of courts shall not be reduced.
      (2)   Where yards, coverage or density of individual building sites or
lots are reduced within a planned unit development, a compensating open space
or spaces shall be provided within the planned unit development.
   (D)   Minimum site size. In order to encourage the use of the planned unit
development provisions, there shall be no minimum site size requirements.
   (E)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   The off-street parking requirements set forth in this chapter may
be complied with by providing one or more permanent, common, off-street parking
facilities for all uses within the development, provided that the facility
contains the requisite number of spaces for each use, and that the spaces
provided for permanent residents shall be clearly designated and separated from
spaces provided for employees, customers and service.
      (2)   The total spaces provided shall not be less than the sum of the
individual requirements and the spaces required for each use and shall be under
the ownership or permanent control of the owners of the use for which the
spaces are required.
   (F)   Subdivision regulations.
      (1)   A planned unit development proposal may also provide for
modification of the requirements within the city’s subdivision regulations.
      (2)   The development plan required herein shall be considered as the
preliminary plat under the subdivision regulations and shall be reviewed at the
same time as the planned unit development request under the provisions of this
chapter.
§12-342 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application and development plan. The developer of a planned unit
development shall submit a site development plan in support of the application
for a planned unit development approval. The development plan shall be reviewed
in conjunction with any requisite rezoning and subdivision procedures in the
same manner as prescribed for rezoning requests.
   (B)   Development plan. The development plan required in support of a
planned unit development request shall include, at a minimum, the total acreage
to be developed, location of all structures, streets, driveways, parking areas,
lot and yard areas, open spaces, drainage plans, approximate utility locations
and rights-of-way easements. In addition, building floor plans and elevations
shall be submitted.
   (C)   Procedure. Procedures are as follows:
      (1)   The Planning Commission and City Council shall review the
development plan at public hearings and may recommend modification thereof or
request additional information. Either body may table action on the development
plan as necessary to allow modification of the development plan; and
      (2)   Upon approval of a development plan by the City Council, the plan
shall be adopted by ordinance and shall become a part of the zoning districts
map, subject to the conditions and requirements of the adopting ordinance.
   (D)   Plan changes. Any substantial deviation from the plans submitted at
the time of rezoning shall constitute a violation of the rezoning and
substantial change in plans shall be resubmitted for review following the same
procedure required in the original adoption of the plan. The chief enforcement
officer shall interpret what constitutes a “substantial” deviation or change in
the plan.
   (E)   Construction. The construction of the planned unit development shall
be started within two years of the effective date of approval of the plan by
the City Council. Failure to begin the development within the two years shall
automatically void the development plan and land shall revert to the same
zoning classification which existed immediately preceding the approval of the
planned unit development.
   (F)   Homeowners’ association. If other satisfactory arrangements for
improving, operating and maintaining streets, common parking and open space
areas, drives, service areas and utilities have not been made with the city, a
homeowners’ association shall be provided for and created, in accordance with
accepted procedures, state law and financial requirements.
§12-343 RE RURAL ESTATES ZONING DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent of this district:
   (A)   To provide residential opportunities for the use of lands optimally
suited to neither prime agricultural nor high density urban uses because of
location, topography, soil characteristics, wetness, vegetation or other
natural or man induced factors;
   (B)   To provide lands for single-family residential and open space uses
which are the optimum uses due to topography, soil’s natural characteristics,
human-made features and/or location and existing uses, and where each single-
family residence may be served by an on-site sewage disposal system;
   (C)   To provide areas where portions of the land may be kept open to
protect and preserve hilly areas, wetlands and other aquifer recharge and
discharge areas, prairies, wooded regions and other unique areas, or to
preserve open space, for either public or private benefit and for the
perpetuation of the diversity of natural ecological systems; and
   (D)   To provide the opportunity to keep horses or domestic farm animals and
the right to practice in a limited manner agriculture, floriculture,
horticulture, cultivation of field or garden crops and similar related
activities, as accessory uses to the principal residential use.
(Ord. 1565, passed 5-27-2003)
§12-344 USES PERMITTED.
   No land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure or premises
shall be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied or used, except as otherwise
provided in the ordinance codified herein for other than one of the following
specified uses:
   (A)   Home occupation;
   (B)   Public and/or quasi-public buildings and facilities, including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   School; and
      (2)   Park, playground and natural preserve.
   (C)   Single-family detached dwelling.
(Ord. 1565, passed 5-27-2003)
§12-345 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following uses may be permitted on review in accordance with provisions
contained in this part:
   (A)   Adult daycare facility;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast establishment;
   (C)   Cemetery;
   (D)   Daycare center or daycare home;
   (E)   Greenhouse for wholesale use only;
   (F)   Group home;
   (G)   Nursery for wholesale use only; and
   (H)   Public, quasi-public, governmental buildings and facilities and
religious institutions, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Church;
      (2)   Essential services, including, but not limited to: cable television
reception and transmission facilities, public utilities, gas regulator
stations, telephone exchanges, electrical substations and sewage treatment
plants; and
      (3)   Golf course or country club, but not a driving range, pitch and
putt course, or miniature golf operation.
(Ord. 1565, passed 5-27-2003)
§12-346 ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED.
   The following accessory uses may be permitted; provided, that they are
operated and maintained under the same ownership on the same lot, and do not
include structures or structural features inconsistent with the permitted use
or a use permitted on review.
   (A)   Accessory uses may include:
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or a use
permitted on review;
      (2)   Garage, carport, shed or other storage space for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises; and
      (3)   Swimming pool, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests, and set back from every property line at least ten feet, exclusive of
any and all easements.
   (B)   Agricultural uses:
      (1)   Field crops;
      (2)   Nursery for private use only;
      (3)   Greenhouse for private use only; and
      (4)   (a)   The keeping of farm animals for personal use only. Enclosed
structures for the keeping of farm animals shall be no closer than 50 feet to
any adjoining property line. There shall be not more than one animal unit per
acre. The following table shows the value in animal units for mature animals
permitted per acre of land.
Animal Number of Animals Per Unit
Animal                                     Number of Animals Per Unit
Cow                                        1 = 1 unit
Fowl, poultry                              20 = 1 unit
Fur-bearing animals (except dogs and cats) 20 = 1 unit
Goat                                       2 = 1 unit
Horse, mule                                1 = 1 unit
Pig                                        1 = 1 unit
Sheep                                      2 = 1 unit
 
         (b)   The Community Development Director shall be empowered to
determine the value in animal units for mature animals not listed above.
(Ord. 1565, passed 5-27-2003)
§12-347 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Every use permitted, use permitted on review or accessory structure shall
meet the following yard and/or setback requirements.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   All buildings shall set back from a state or federal highway or
county highway or section line road a minimum of 50 feet from the right-of-way
line or 100 feet from the centerline of the right-of-way easement, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   On all public roads or streets, other than federal, state or county
highways and section line roads, all buildings shall set back a minimum of 25
feet from the right-of-way line or 55 feet from the centerline of the right-of-
way easement, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Side yard setback.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum setback of 25 feet.
      (2)   On any corner lot, there shall be a setback of at least 40 feet
from the right-of-way of the intersecting street.
      (3)   On any corner lot which abuts a major street, there shall be a
minimum side yard setback for all main and accessory buildings of 60 feet from
the right-of-way line or the proposed street right-of-way line as established
in the major street plan, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Rear yard setback.
      (1)   The principal structure and any accessory structure attached
thereto shall be set back a distance of not less than 80 feet, exclusive of any
and all easements, from the rear lot line.
      (2)   Freestanding accessory structures shall be set back a distance of
not less than 20 feet from the rear lot line.
   (D)   Lot width (lot frontage). A minimum lot width of 200 feet shall be
provided for each lot used for a permitted or a use permitted on review.
   (E)   Intensity of use. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less than
two and one-half acres.
   (F)   Lot coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
20% of the lot area of any lot within this district.
(Ord. 1565, passed 5-27-2003)
§12-348 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Parking requirements. In accordance with the applicable regulations
set forth in this part.
   (B)   Sign requirements.
      (1)   A sign attached to the main building or a freestanding sign located
no closer than ten feet back from the right-of-way line on the same lot with
the main building, not exceeding 15 square feet in area, and with the height of
the sign not to exceed five feet, is permitted.
      (2)   In the case of a lot having both a primary and one or more
secondary frontages, one sign for each secondary frontage is permitted.
      (3)   No signs advertising products not sold on the premises will be
permitted.
      (4)   An entrance gate which would identify the name of the rural estate
is not considered an advertising sign and is permitted but shall be set back
from the property line not less than five feet.
(Ord. 1565, passed 5-27-2003)
ARTICLE I. REQUIREMENTS FOR SATELLITE TELEVISION (DISH) ANTENNAS
§12-350 “SATELLITE TELEVISION (DISH) ANTENNAS” DEFINED.
   A satellite television antenna or dish antenna shall meet the following
requirements as listed below. For the purpose of this article, SATELLITE
TELEVISION ANTENNA or DISH ANTENNA shall mean a reflecting dish or dish antenna
four feet in diameter or more or similar device used for the transmission or
reception of electromagnetic waves from orbiting satellites and other
extraterrestrial sources. This article shall not apply to antennas temporarily
installed for demonstrations or test purpose for a period not to exceed seven
days in any single location.
(Ord. 1201, passed - -)
§12-351 LOCATION OF SATELLITE ANTENNA IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING.
   Any satellite television antenna or dish antenna in any residential zoned
district shall be located to the rear of the main structure, shall be a minimum
of ten feet from any main building existing or under construction on the same
lot and shall be subject to the same setbacks for structures as specified in
the zoning ordinances of the city. In no case shall the satellite television or
dish antenna exceed 20 feet in height measured vertically from the mean ground
level to the highest point on the antenna when positioned for operation. The
antenna shall be mounted on a suitable foundation and properly anchored to
withstand wind pressure of ten pounds per square foot.
§12-352 LOCATION OF SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNA OR DISH ANTENNA IN OTHER
ZONING.
   Any satellite television antenna or dish antenna in zoning districts not
listed in § 12-351 shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   The satellite or dish television antenna shall not exceed 30 feet in
height measured vertically from the ground or roof structure on which it is
located nor be located beyond the building limit lines for the zoning district
in which it is located.
   (B)   The antenna shall be mounted on a suitable foundation and properly
anchored to withstand wind pressure of ten pounds per square foot.
§12-353 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the location or erection of a satellite television or dish antenna,
the occupant or owner of the property on which the antenna is to be located
shall make application to the building inspector of the city, for a permit for
the location or erection of the antenna upon a form provided by the building
inspector.
§12-354 PERMIT REQUIREMENT FOR USE OF SATELLITE BY PERSONS OTHER THAN OCCUPANT
OR PROPERTY OWNER.
   Persons desiring to permit use of the satellite television or dish antenna
other than the owner or occupant of the property on which the satellite is
located shall obtain a permit and pay a fee in conformance with the fee
required from the holder of the nonexclusive permit to cablevision of the city
as set forth in the cablevision permit contained in the ordinances of this
city.
§12-355 TRANSMISSION FOR SATELLITE TELEVISION OR DISH ANTENNA LICENSE.
   Any person desiring to transmit from a satellite or dish television antenna
shall make application to the city, for a permit for transmission; such
application shall be made to the City Clerk, which permit will require approval
by the City Council, and will be subject to all rules, regulations and charges
now required under this city’s nonexclusive permit for the operation of
cablevision in the city, as contained in the ordinances of the city.
ARTICLE J. GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL OR TO SEVERAL DISTRICTS
§12-360 APPLICATION OF REGULATION TO THE USES OF A MORE RESTRICTED DISTRICT.
   (A)   Whenever the specific district regulations pertaining to one district
permit the uses of a more restricted district, such uses shall be subject to
the conditions as set forth in the regulations of the more restricted district,
unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   It is intended that these regulations be interpreted as not permitting
a dwelling unit to be located on the same lot with or within a structure used
or intended to be used for nonresidential purposes.
§12-361 OPEN SPACE.
   The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions or qualify and
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations set forth in
this chapter.
   (A)   An open space or lot area required for an existing building or
structure shall not be counted as open space for any other building or
structure.
   (B)   Open eaves, cornices, windowsills and belt courses may project into
any required yard a distance not to exceed three feet. Open uncovered porches
or open fire escapes may project into a front or rear yard a distance not to
exceed five feet. Fences, walls and hedges in residential districts may be
erected in any required yard, or along the edge of any yard, provided that no
fence, wall or hedge located in front of the front building line shall exceed
four feet in height, and no other wall or fence shall exceed seven feet in
height.
   (C)   Where the dedicated street right-of-way is less than 50 feet, the
depth of the front yard shall be measured starting at a point 25 feet from the
centerline of the street easement.
   (D)   (1)   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot which does not abut on at
least one street, at least 50 feet in width, for a distance of not less than 30
feet.
      (2)   A street shall form the direct and primary means of ingress and
egress for all dwelling units. Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a
secondary means of ingress and egress.
      (3)   A garage apartment may be built to the rear of a main dwelling if
there is compliance with all other provisions of this chapter. Accessory
buildings which are not a part of the main building may be built in the rear
yard but shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
   (E)   No minimum lot sizes and open spaces are prescribed for commercial and
industrial uses. It is the intent of this chapter that lots of sufficient size
be used by any business or industry to provide adequate parking and loading and
unloading space required for operation of the enterprise.
   (F)   On any corner lot on which a front and side yard is required, no wall,
fence, sign, structure or any plant growth which obstructs sightlines at
elevations between two feet six inches and six feet above any portion of the
crown of the adjacent roadway shall be maintained in a triangle formed by
measuring from the point of intersection of the front and exterior side lot
lines a distance of 25 feet along the front and side lot lines and connecting
the points so established to form a right angle on the area of the lot adjacent
to the street intersection.
   (G)   An attached or detached private garage which faces on a street shall
not be located closer to the street right-of-way line than the minimum setback
line for dwellings as established in this chapter; that is, 25 feet for
interior lots, and for corner lots 15 feet in case such lot is back-to-back
with another corner lot and 20 feet in every other case.
   (H)   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used unless the main building on the lot is also being used.
   (I)   Whenever one or more residential, institutional, commercial or
industrial buildings are proposed to be located in a cluster or grouping which
has a different arrangement, orientation or other site planning variation from
that of other buildings, structures or uses in the area or on adjacent
properties, the architectural design, location, orientation, service and
parking areas of such buildings shall be planned so as not to adversely affect
the use of adjacent or other properties in the area, as determined by the
Planning Commission.
 §12-362 HEIGHT.
   The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions or qualify and
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations set forth in
this chapter herein.
   (A)   In measuring heights, a habitable basement or attic shall be counted
as a story. A story in a sloping roof, the area of which story at a height of
four feet above the floor does not exceed two-thirds of the floor area of the
story immediately below it and which does not contain an independent apartment,
shall be counted as a half story.
   (B)   Chimneys, elevators, poles, spires, tanks, towers and other
projections not used for human occupancy may extend above the height limit.
   (C)   Churches, schools, hospitals, sanatoriums and other public and
semipublic buildings may exceed the height limitation of the district if the
minimum depth of the rear yards and the minimum width of the side yards
required in the district are increased one foot for each two feet by which the
height of such public or semipublic building exceeds the prescribed height
limit.
§12-363 GROUP HOUSING PROJECTS.
   (A)   In the case of a housing project consisting of a group of two or more
buildings to be constructed on a plat of ground of at least two acres not
subdivided into the customary streets and lots, and which will not be so
subdivided, where the existing or contemplated street and lot layout make it
impracticable to apply the requirements of this chapter to the individual
buildings in such housing project, the application of such requirements to such
housing project may be changed by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
the procedure for exceptions, in a manner that will be in harmony with the
character of the neighborhood, will ensure a density of land use no higher and
a standard of open space at least as high as required by this chapter in the
district in which the proposed project is to be located.
   (B)   In no case shall a use or building height or density of population be
permitted which is less than the requirement of the district in which the
housing project is to be located.
§12-364 STORAGE AND PARKING OF TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, recreational vehicles and
mobile homes shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or
on any lot in any residential district or on any street or any street right-of-
way within or adjacent to a residential district except in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (A)   Not more than one commercial vehicle, which does not exceed one and
one-half tons of rated capacity, per family living on the premises, shall be
permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle for hauling explosives,
gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles and boats may be parked as follows:
      (1)   Inside parking;
      (2)   Outside parking inside a rear or side yard;
      (3)   Outside parking in the front yard, provided:
         (a)   Space is not available or there is no reasonable access to
either the side yard or the rear yard; a lot serviced by a dedicated alley or a
corner lot is always deemed to have reasonable access to the rear yard; a fence
is not deemed to prevent reasonable access;
         (b)   Inside parking is not possible;
         (c)   The unit is parked perpendicular to the front curb;
         (d)   The body of the recreational vehicle or boat is at least 15 feet
from the face of the curb; or
         (e)   No part of the unit extends over the public sidewalk.
      (4)   Parking is permitted only if the unit is:
         (a)   1.   Not used for dwelling purposes, except one recreational
vehicle may be used for a dwelling purpose for a maximum of 14 days in any
calendar year on any given lot.
            2.   Cooking is not permitted in a recreational vehicle at any
time;
         (b)   1.   Not permanently connected to sewer lines, water lines or
electricity.
            2.   A recreational vehicle may be connected to electricity
temporarily for charging batteries and other purposes if the receptacle and the
connection from the recreational vehicle has been inspected and approved by the
city electrical inspector;
      (5)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4)
above, a unit may be parked anywhere on the premises during active loading or
unloading, and use of electricity or propane fuel is permitted when necessary
to prepare a recreational vehicle for use; and
      (6)   Nothing in divisions (B)(3), (B)(4) and (B)(5) above shall be
interpreted as allowing the temporary or permanent storage of a recreational
vehicle or boat within the sight triangle as established in this code.
   (C)   A trailer home or mobile home shall not be parked or stored except in
accordance with the provisions of this part relating to mobile homes.
§12-365 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND FENCES.
   The architectural design and materials used for the construction of
accessory buildings and fences shall harmonize with the main building to which
the building or fence is accessory.
§12-366 ANIMALS.
   Animals in any district shall be kept only in accordance with the ordinances
of the city.
§12-367 STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES.
   The use of land or buildings for the commercial wholesale or retail storage
of liquefied petroleum gases shall be in accordance with the ordinances of the
city and the regulations of the liquefied petroleum gas administration of the
state.
§12-368 OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE AND VEHICLE PARKING AND LOADING; GENERAL INTENT
AND APPLICATION.
   It is the intent of these requirements that adequate parking and loading
facilities be provided off the street easement for each use of land within the
city. Requirements are intended to be based on the demand created by each use.
These requirements shall apply to all uses in the districts.
(Ord. 1874, passed 4-22-2025)
§12-369 REQUIRED OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Off-street parking or loading spaces shall be a part of the required
open space associated with the permitted use and shall not be reduced or
encroached upon in any manner.
   (B)   The area required for off-street parking shall be in addition to the
yard areas herein required; except that the front yard required in a C-
1 Neighborhood Shopping District, a C-2 Office Commercial District or of an I-
1 Restricted Manufacturing and Warehousing District may be used for uncovered
parking area; and further provided that the front yard required in a
residential district may be used for the uncovered parking area for six (6) or
less vehicles associated with a residential use when the area is surfaced with
a sealed surface pavement adequate to prevent the occurrence of mud and dust
with continued use, and may be used for uncovered parking area for more than
six (6) vehicles in accordance with the provisions of this part.
(Ord. 1874, passed 4-22-2025)
§12-370 LOCATION.
   The off-street parking lot shall be located within two hundred (200) feet,
exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use and shall have
direct access to a street or alley.
(Ord. 1874, passed 4-22-2025)
§12-371 JOINT PARKING FACILITIES.
   Whenever two (2) or more uses are located together in a common building,
shopping center or other integrated building complex, the parking requirements
may be complied with by providing a permanent common parking facility,
cooperatively established and operated, which contains the requisite number of
spaces for each use. The total number of spaces provided shall not be less than
the sum of the individual requirements. Where sufficient evidence is presented
to the Planning Commission to show that shared parking areas may be permitted
when usage is shown to be at different times, such as churches utilizing
shopping center parking, the requirement may be lessened with written approval
of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1874, passed 4-22-2025)
§12-372 SIZE OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE.
   The size of a parking space for one (1) vehicle shall consist of a
rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') where any overhang from a parked vehicle will not interfere with
pedestrian and/or vehicular path of travel plus adequate area for ingress and
egress. The use of curb stops or bumper blocks may be required to prevent
parked vehicle overhang.
(Ord. 1874, passed 4-22-2025)
§12-373 AMOUNT OF OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in all
districts in accordance with the following schedule.
Automotive     3 parking spaces per bay
garage
Barber shop or 2 parking spaces per workstation
beauty salon
Boarding or
rooming house  1 parking space for each 2 guests provided overnight accommodations
or hotel
               3 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of showroom/indoor sales area/office area;
Car dealership and 1 space per 5,000 square feet of outdoor sales area; and 1 space per 500
               square feet of service and shop areas
Commercial     1 space per 200 square feet for first 20,000 square feet; and
establishments 1 space per 250 square feet for 20,001 square feet thru 50,000 square feet; and
not otherwise  1 space per 300 square feet for remainder square footage
classified
Community
center, church 1 parking space for each 4 seats, based on maximum seating capacity
sanctuary
Convention
hall, lodge,   1 parking space for each 50 square feet of floor area used for assembly or
club, place of recreation in the building
amusement or
recreation
Daycare or
childcare      1 space per 500 square feet
facility
Dwelling,      The number of spaces provided shall not be less than 1 and 1/2 times the number
multiple-      of units in the dwelling
family
Dwelling,      Not less than 2 parking spaces for each separate dwelling unit within the
single-family  structure
or duplex
Funeral home   1 pace for every 4 seats or 1 space per 300 square feet of floor area (whichever
               is greater)
Furniture      1 space per 600 square feet
store
Health club/   1 space per 250 square feet
fitness center
               1 space for each 4 patient beds, exclusive of bassinets, plus 1 space for each
Hospitals      staff or visiting doctor, plus 1 space for each 3 employees including nurses,
               plus adequate area for the parking of emergency vehicles
Industrial     Adequate area to park all employees’ and customers’ vehicles at all times and
establishments adequate space for loading, unloading and storing all vehicles used incidental to
               or as a part of the primary operation of the establishment
Library or     1 space per 1,000 square feet of space excluding storage areas
museum
Medical or
dental clinics 6 spaces per doctor plus 1 space for each 2 employees
or offices
Mini-warehouse 1 space per 200 square feet of office with a minimum of 2 spaces provided
or self-store
Office         1 space per 300 square feet of first 20,000 square feet; and
building       1 space per 325 square feet for 20,001 square feet thru 50,000 square feet; and
               1 space per 350 square feet for remainder of square footage
Recreation
center,        1 space per 300 square feet of floor area
indoor, multi-
use
Restaurant:
drive-in,
walk-up and    1 space per 400 square feet with a minimum of 2 spaces, plus 1 space per 100
drive- thru    square feet of outdoor seating area if provided
only with no
indoor seating
Private club,
dance hall,
theater or
other assembly 1 space for each 3 seats, based on maximum seating capacity
occupancy not
otherwise
classified
Sanatoriums,
convalescent   1 space for each 6 patient beds plus 1 space for each staff or visiting doctor
or nursing     plus 1 space for each 2 employees including nurses
homes
School,        4 parking spaces per classroom
Elementary
School, High   8 parking spaces per classroom
School, Middle 6 parking spaces per classroom
 
For all uses not covered in this section, the Planning Commission shall make a
determination of the parking demand to be created by the proposed use, and the
amount of parking thus determined shall be the off-street parking requirements
for the permitted use.
   (B)   Where parking is provided, accessible parking spaces shall be provided
in compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) accessible parking
space requirements.
(Ord. 1403, passed 7-31-1996; Ord. 1874, passed 4-22-2025)
§12-374 OFF-STREET PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Whenever off-street parking lots for more than six (6) vehicles are to be
located within or adjacent to a residential district, the following provisions
shall apply.
   (A)   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard setback established
fifteen (15) feet back of the property line of interior and corner lots
wherever the parking lot is located in a residential district or immediately
abuts the front yard of a residential unit. In all other cases no setback shall
be required.
   (B)   All yards shall be landscaped with grass and shrubs and maintained in
good condition the year round.
   (C)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and shall
not exceed twenty five (25) feet in width, exclusive of curb returns.
   (D)   Whenever lighting is provided, the intensity of light and arrangement
of reflectors shall be such as not to interfere with residential district uses.
   (E)   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used to
guide traffic and to state the conditions and terms of the use of the lots.
Only nonintermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted.
   (F)   All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be paved
with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no dust
will be produced by continued use; and
   (G)   All sides of the lot within or abutting the residential district shall
be enclosed within an ornamental fence, wall or dense evergreen hedge having a
height of not less than five (5) nor more than six (6) feet. Such fence, wall
or hedge shall be approved by the Planning Commission and shall be maintained
in good condition.
(Ord. 1874, passed 4-22-2025)
§12-375 PAVED SURFACE REQUIRED.
   All parking spaces shall be paved with a sealed surface pavement and
maintained in a manner that dust will not result from the continued use except
in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Agricultural businesses within agriculturally zoned properties may
utilize a gravel surface that has been properly compacted to support access by
emergency vehicles and said agricultural business shall provide a proper hard
surface area to meet ADA requirements. The ingress/egress point to the gravel
parking area must be paved with a sealed surface pavement for areas within the
established right- of-way; or
   (B)   Single-family residential uses within residential districts may
utilize gravel parking only within the backyard areas being designated as areas
behind the primary dwelling unit. Gravel may not be used for two-family and/or
multi-family uses; or
   (C)   Industrially zoned properties which utilize truck storage, bays, or
yards may utilize a gravel surface that has been properly compacted to support
access by emergency vehicles if such gravel area is greater than one thousand
(1,000) feet from a residentially or commercially zoned property (measured in
straight line from the nearest point of the gravel area to the nearest point of
a residential or commercial property line). The ingress/egress point to the
gravel parking area must be paved with a sealed surface pavement for areas
within the established right-of-way.
(Ord. 1874, passed 4-22-2025)
§12-376 COURT REQUIREMENTS FOR MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Outer court width. The width of an outer court upon which windows open
shall be not less than ten feet, or equal to the height of the opposing wall,
whichever is greater; and in no case shall an outer court be less than five
feet in width or equal to 70% of the height of the opposing wall, whichever is
greater.
   (B)   Inner court width. The width of an inner court of a multiple-family
dwelling shall be not less than two times the height of the lowest wall forming
the court, but in no case shall it be less than 20 feet.
   (C)   Passageway for inner court. An open unobstructed passageway shall be
provided at the grade of each inner court. Such passageway shall be not less
than 12 feet in width and shall have a clearance of not less than 12 feet in
height and shall provide a straight and continuous passage from the inner court
to a yard or open space having a direct connection with a street.
   (D)   Accessory buildings prohibited. No accessory building shall be located
in a court of a multiple-family dwelling.
§12-377 RESIDENTIAL CARPORTS.
   In subdivisions platted without building setback lines and upon unplatted
lots, within the R-1, R-2, R-3, A-1 and A-2 Districts, the erection of carports
for the storage and protection of vehicles and trailers legally operable upon
public roadways shall be permitted within required setbacks from public
streets, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Carports shall set back not less than seven feet from a minor
street right-of-way or not less than ten feet from a major street right-of-way.
In the event that the major street plan establishes a greater right-of-way than
currently dedicated, the setback shall be determined based upon that projected
in the major street plan.
      (2)   Carports shall set back from adjacent property lines not less than
five feet.
      (3)   Setbacks shall be measured from the vertical supports of the
structure.
   (B)   Design and construction.
      (1)   The roof structure, including eaves, fascia and trim shall be not
less than seven feet above the highest adjacent grade. The only structural
elements permitted within seven feet of grade shall be vertical supports and
downspouts for gutters.
      (2)   There shall be not more than four vertical supports on either side
of the structure. The horizontal dimensions of each support shall not exceed
eight inches for any material other than masonry columns. Masonry columns shall
not exceed 14 inches in any horizontal dimension.
      (3)   The maximum width of a carport, measured at the vertical supports,
shall be 20 feet. Eaves, fascia and trim may project not more than two feet
beyond the vertical supports.
   (C)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Where the principal structure is nearer to a street right-of-way or
property line than permitted above, a carport may be erected in line with the
principal structure.
      (2)   Where two or more principal structures on the same side of a block
are nearer to the street right-of-way than permitted above, a carport may be
permitted to extend in line with the nearest principal structure which exceeds
the prescribed setback; provided, that in no instance shall any portion of a
carport be permitted to encroach upon a public street right-of-way.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not be interpreted as
permitting construction in excess of the limitations on lot coverage set forth
within the various zoning districts. For purposes of this section, the area of
the structure shall be determined upon the exterior dimensions of the vertical
supports for the structure.
(Ord. 1296, passed 3-27-1990)
§12-378 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following provisions shall apply for all signs, in all Commercial
and Industrial Zoning Districts, unless noted otherwise.
   (B)   Digital LED display signs are permitted within all Commercial and
Industrial Districts.
      (1)   One digital sign is allowed per business and may be all or part of
any allowed ground or wall sign (but not both).
      (2)   (a)   No digital sign shall be located within 50 feet of the
driving surface of a signalized intersection, measured in a straight line from
the leading edge of the sign structure to the nearest edge of the pavement of
intersecting roads/driving surfaces.
         (b)   Such sign may not be located closer than 20 feet from the edge
of any other intersecting roads/driving surfaces. Such signs must also comply
with the setback provisions of the zoning district in which located which may
result in greater setback requirements.
      (3)   Digital signs shall only display a static message or messages.
There shall be no effects of movement, blinking, animation, scrolling, flashing
or similar effects in the individual images.
      (4)   (a)   Digital signs which display more than one static image shall
do so sequentially, with each static message having a dwell time of no less
than 12 seconds and a transition time between static messages of no more than
one second.
         (b)   Changes of image(s) shall be instantaneous as seen by the human
eye and shall not use blinking, fading, rolling, shading, dissolving or similar
effects as part of the change.
      (5)   Digital signs shall not display an illuminative brightness
exceeding 300 NITs at any time between one-half hour before sunset until
sunrise of the next day or 5,000 NITs between sunrise and until one-half hour
before sunset.
      (6)   Digital signs shall not display an illuminative brightness of such
intensity or brilliance that they impair the vision or endanger the safety and
welfare of any cyclist or person operating a motor vehicle.
      (7)   Digital signs shall not resemble any warning or danger signal, or
any official traffic control device, sign, signal or light.
      (8)   All digital signs shall have installed ambient light monitors or
photocells, and shall at all times cause such devices to automatically adjust
the brightness level of the sign based on ambient light conditions. Each sign
shall be equipped with a default mechanism that will automatically freeze the
sign in one position or display a static message if a malfunction occurs.
      (9)   If a digital sign is visible from a nearby Residential Zoning
District, it shall be located no closer than 200 feet from the closest point of
the Residential District, measured in a straight line from the nearest point of
the sign structure to the nearest point of the Residential District.
   (C)   The owner of any real estate upon which exists a sign which has
deteriorated, become illegible or has otherwise fallen into disrepair, shall,
upon notice from the city, remove the deteriorated sign or cause it to be
removed, or shall cover the deteriorated sign or cause it to be covered in a
neutral shade.
   (D)   Any advertising sign, billboard, commercial advertising structure or
statuary, which is lawfully existing and maintained at the time this section
became effective, which does not conform with the provisions hereof, shall not
be structurally altered; and all such nonconforming advertising signs,
billboards, commercial advertising structures and statuary, and their
supporting members shall be completely removed from the premises not later than
seven years from the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 1789, passed 4-23-2019)
§12-379 RESIDENTIAL OUTDOOR STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the outdoor storage regulations is to require
that property be maintained in such a condition that it does not adversely
impact the health, safety and welfare of the community. These regulations are
intended to prevent potential adverse impacts such as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Vermin or rodent infestations;
      (2)   Creation of an attractive nuisance potentially hazardous to
children;
      (3)   Reduced emergency response time; or
      (4)   Creation of unsightly or undesirable conditions potentially
impacting the value of property.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Requirements are not applicable to agriculture zoned property to
any vehicle, equipment and/or materials required for use in the agricultural
operations conducted on the property provided such vehicles, equipment and/or
materials are stored in a safe and sanitary manner.
      (2)   Requirements are not applicable to properties on which a structure
is being constructed or renovated in accordance with this code or is being
demolished, but must be removed by expiration date of the permit. Equipment
and/or materials must be stored in a safe and sanitary manner.
   (C)   Outdoor material storage.
      (1)   No portion of any undeveloped or vacant residential property site
and, for any developed residential property site, no portion of any front yard
or any required side yard setback, shall be used for the storage of any of the
following: depositing, storing or maintaining any garbage, junk or an
accumulation of materials such as vehicle parts, tires, appliances, indoor
furniture, boxes, crates, packing cases, mattresses, bedding, lumber, scrap
iron, tin, equipment, machinery, salvage materials or other materials.
      (2)   Items and materials may be stored in rear yards, provided such is
screened from public view or stored within an approved storage structure
constructed in accordance with applicable building and zoning regulations.
   (D)   Violations and penalty. Any violation of this section shall constitute
an infraction punishable as provided for in §
12-393 .
(Ord. 1639, passed 10-24-2006)
ARTICLE K. NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES OF LAND
§12-380 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   A nonconforming building or structure existing at the time of adoption of
this chapter may be continued, maintained and repaired, except as otherwise
provided in this section.
§12-381 ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   A nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to or enlarged in
any manner unless the building or structure, including additions and
enlargements, is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district in
which it is located; provided, however, that if a building or structure is
conforming as to use, but nonconforming as to yards or height or off-street
parking space, the building or structure may be enlarged or added to provided
that the enlargement or addition complies with the yard and height and off-
street parking requirements of the district in which the building or structure
is located. No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or
in part to another location on the lot unless every portion of the building or
structure is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district in which
it is located.
§12-382 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS AND STRUCTURES.
   Any advertising sign, billboard, commercial advertising structure or
statuary, which is lawfully existing and maintained at the time this chapter
became effective, which does not conform with the provisions hereof, shall not
be structurally altered and all such nonconforming advertising signs,
billboards, commercial advertising structures and statuary, and their
supporting members shall be completely removed from the premises not later than
three years from the effective date hereof.
§12-383 BUILDING VACANCY.
   A building or structure or portion thereof, which is nonconforming as to
use, which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied for a
continuous period of one year shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use
which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
§12-384 CHANGE IN USE.
   (A)   (1)   A nonconforming use of a conforming building or structure shall
not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such conforming building
or structure or changed except to a conforming use. If such a nonconforming
use, or a portion thereof, is discontinued or changed to a conforming use, any
future use of such building, structure or portion thereof shall be in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which such building or
structure is located.
      (2)   A vacant or partially vacant nonconforming building or structure
may be occupied by a use for which the building or structure was designed or
intended if occupied within a period of one year after the effective date
hereof, but otherwise it shall be used in conformity with the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   (B)   The use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed to a
use of the same or a more restricted district classification; but where the use
of nonconforming building or structure is changed to a use of more restricted
district classification, it thereafter shall not be changed to a use of a less
restricted district classification; provided, however, that a building or
structure that is nonconforming as to use at the time of adoption of this
chapter, or at any time thereafter, shall not be changed to a wholesale or
retail liquor store unless such change in use conforms to the provisions of the
district in which it is located.
§12-385 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   A nonconforming use of land, where the aggregate value of all permanent
buildings or structures is less than $1,000, existing at the time of adoption
of this chapter, may be continued for a period of not more than three years
therefrom, provided that:
   (A)   The nonconforming use may not be extended or expanded, nor shall it
occupy more area than was in use on the effective date of this chapter; or
   (B)   If the nonconforming use or any portion thereof is discontinued for a
period of six months, or changed, any future use of such land, or change in
use, shall be in conformity with the provisions of the district in which the
land is located.
ARTICLE L. ADMINISTRATION
§12-387 BUILDING PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to change or permit the
change in the use of land or buildings or structure or to erect, alter, move or
improve any building or structure until a building permit has been obtained
under the following conditions.
§12-388 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building or structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or moved without
a permit from the Building Official, all as required in
Part 5 of this code.
§12-389 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No change shall be made in the use of any land, building or structure
until a certificate of occupancy certifying compliance with the provisions of
this chapter has been obtained from the Building Official and the payment of
such fee as may be set by the City Council.
   (B)   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection of a new
building or structure an occupancy permit shall be required prior to occupancy
thereof; except for additions or alterations to residential structures and
buildings accessory to residential structures.
   (C)   In the instance of buildings and structures containing more than one
occupancy the Building Official may issue separate certificates of occupancy
providing all requirements of this chapter, including off-street parking
improvements, necessary for such separate occupancy are complied with.
§12-390 PROCEDURE FOR AUTHORIZING USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   (A)   Procedure. The uses listed under the various districts herein as “uses
permitted on review” are so classified because they more intensely dominate the
area in which they are located than do other uses permitted in the district;
however, the nature of such uses makes it desirable that they be permitted to
locate therein. The following procedure is established to integrate properly
the uses permitted on review with the other land uses located in the district.
These uses shall be reviewed and authorized or rejected under the following
procedures.
      (1)   An application shall be filed with the City Planning Commission for
review. The application shall show the location and intended use of the site
and be accompanied by a list of the names and addresses of all the property
owners and existing land uses within 300 feet, in any direction of the proposed
use, which lists shall be certified as correct by an abstractor.
      (2)   After giving notice of at least ten days to all those whose names
appear on the list accompanying the application, the City Planning Commission
shall hold one or more public hearings thereon, at which time the Planning
Commission may require any other material it believes pertinent and shall
continue the hearing from time to time, if necessary.
      (3)   (a)   The Planning Commission shall, within 45 days of the date of
application, transmit to the City Council its report as to the effect of such
proposed building or use upon character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, public utilities and other matters pertaining to the general
welfare, and the recommendation of the Planning Commission concerning use
thereon.
         (b)   Thereupon, the City Council may authorize or deny the issuance
of a building permit or occupancy permit for the use of land or buildings as
requested.
      (4)   The Council by resolution shall set such fees as are necessary to
defray the costs of the mailing of the notice set out herein.
      (5)   Once received from the state issuing authority, the operator of a
daycare home (family daycare home) or daycare center shall provide a copy of
its license to the administrative office of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Uses permitted on review; specific standards. Tattoo parlor or body
piercing establishment: type of business: tattoo parlor or body piercing
establishment shall be a stand-alone business.
(Ord. 1427, passed 2-25-1997; Ord. 1640, passed 10-24-2006; Ord. 1852, passed
1-23-2024)
§12-391 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may amend the regulations and district boundaries
herein established on its own motion, on recommendation of the Planning
Commission, or upon petition. No amendment shall become effective until after
public hearings and referral to the Planning Commission for report and
recommendations thereon.
   (B)   (1)   Amendment of the district boundaries upon petition from one or
more property owners shall require notice of hearing to be mailed to all
property owners within 300 feet of the request by first class mail not less
than 20 days prior to the hearing and publication of notice in a newspaper of
general circulation not less than 15 days prior to the hearing. Petitions for
changes in the district boundaries herein established shall be submitted to the
office of the Planning Commission on forms approved by the Planning Commission
and shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   A listing of the names and addresses of all owners of property
within a 300-foot radius of the property under consideration, certified as true
and accurate by an abstractor;
         (b)   A filing fee as may be established by the City Council; and
         (c)   Such other information as may be required by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Additionally, persons petitioning for a change in district
boundaries shall be responsible for the cost of publication of notices thereof.
   (C)   Amendment of the regulations, restrictions and district boundaries
initiated by City Council motion or upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission shall require publication of notice of hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation at least 15 days prior to the hearing thereon.
§12-392 ADOPTION OF AMENDMENT.
   Adoption of any amendment to this chapter shall be by ordinance after public
hearings thereon. If protests to such amendment are filed at least three days
before the date of public hearings by:
   (A)   The owners of 20% or more of the area included in the proposed change;
or
   (B)   The owners of 50% or more of the properties within a 300-foot radius
of the proposed change, the proposed amendment or change shall not become
effective except by a favorable vote by three-fifths of the City Council.
§12-393 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement or alteration of any existing structure on any tract of land which
does not comply with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as provided in
§
1-108, including costs for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   If any building, structure or land is in violation of these
regulations, the proper local authorities of the municipality, or any other
person affected thereby, in addition to other remedies, may institute
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent any unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or
use; to restrain, correct or abate any violation; to prevent the unlawful
occupancy of the building, structure or land; or to prevent any illegal act,
conduct, business or use in or about the premises.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of this part
as it deals with a daycare home or daycare center shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of this section or as provided in §
1-108; in addition, each day of violation thereof shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1427, passed 2-25-1997)
CHAPTER 4: SUBDIVISIONS REGULATIONS
Section
Article A. General Provisions and Definitions
   
12-401   Citation
   
12-402   Purpose
   
12-403   Authority
   
12-404   Jurisdiction
   
12-405   Application to forms of subdividing
   
12-406   Application to undeveloped plats
   
12-407   Interpretation, conflict and separability
   
12-408   Conditions
   
12-409   Resubdivision of land
   
12-410   Vacation of plats
   
12-411   Variances
   
12-412   Enforcement, violations and penalties
   
12-413   Usage of terms
   
12-414   Definitions
Article B. Application and Approval Process
   
12-420   General procedure
   
12-421   Sketch plat
   
12-422   Preliminary plat
   
12-423   Final plat
   
12-424   Signing and recording of final plat
Article C. Improvements
   
12-430   General provisions
   
12-431   Assurance of provision of improvements
   
12-432   Maintenance bond
   
12-433   Permanent markers
   
12-434   Street improvements
   
12-435   Sidewalks
   
12-436   Water lines
   
12-437   Sanitary sewers and septic tanks
   
12-438   Storm sewers and drainage
   
12-439   Maintenance and supervision
   
12-440   Private roadways
   
12-441   Private sewage disposal systems
Article D. Design
   
12-450   Minimum standards and general policies
   
12-451   Urban design principles
   
12-452   Subdivision design standards
Article E. Specifications For Documents
   
12-460   Sketch plat
   
12-461   Preliminary plat
   
12-462   Final plat
   
12-463   Improvement plans
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
§12-401 CITATION.
   These regulations shall hereafter be cited and referred to as the
subdivision regulations of the city’s Planning Commission.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-402 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are designed, intended and shall be administered for the
following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and welfare;
   (B)   To provide adequate light, air and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood and other danger and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population;
   (C)   To guide growth and development in accordance with the general plan
and adopted policies and regulations;
   (D)   To harmoniously relate the development of various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts;
   (E)   To provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract, and that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the whole
community be borne by the whole community;
   (F)   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
   (G)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the community and
ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features; and
   (H)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions and provide adequate and accurate records of
land subdivision.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-403 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted pursuant to the authority granted in 19 O.S.
§§ 866.12 and 866.13.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-404 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall apply to the incorporated area of the city, insofar
as they have been adopted by the Planning Commission and approved by the City
Council. These regulations shall apply to all of the unincorporated area of the
county which is located within three miles of the city limits, or within one-
fourth mile of any state or federal highway, or which is within one-half mile
of any reservoir or water supply owned by the city, insofar as they have been
adopted by the Planning Commission and approved by the Board of County
Commissioners and the City Council.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-405 APPLICATION TO FORMS OF SUBDIVIDING.
   These regulations shall apply to the following forms of land subdivision:
   (A)   The division of land into two or more tracts, lots, sites or parcels,
any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain less than ten acres in area;
   (B)   The division of land, previously subdivided or platted, into tracts,
lots, sites or parcels of less than ten acres in area;
   (C)   The dedication, vacation or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies; or
   (D)   The dedication or vacation of any street or alley through any tract of
land regardless of the area involved.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-406 APPLICATION TO UNDEVELOPED PLATS.
   The Planning Commission does hereby exercise the authority to pass and
approve development of plat subdivisions of land already recorded in the office
of the County Clerk if such plats are partially or entirely undeveloped. A plat
shall be considered to be entirely or partially undeveloped if:
   (A)   The plat has been recorded with the County Clerk’s office without
prior approval by the Planning Commission; or
   (B)   The plat has been approved by the Planning Commission where approval
was granted more than three years prior to granting a building permit, or
construction of streets and utilities, on the partially or entirely undeveloped
land.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-407 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   (1)   The regulations are not intended to interfere with, abrogate or
annul any other ordinance, rule or regulations, statute or other provision of
law.
      (2)   Where any provision of these regulations imposes restriction
different from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any
other ordinance, rule or regulation or other provision of law, whichever
provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall control.
   (C)   If any section, clause, paragraph, provision or portion of these
regulations shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, clause,
paragraph provision or portion of these regulations.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-408 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state.
   (B)   The developer has the duty of compliance with reasonable conditions
laid down by the Planning Commission for design, dedication, improvement and
restrictive use of the land so as to conform to the physical and economical
development of the municipality and to the safety and general welfare of the
future plot owners in the subdivision and of the community at large.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-409 RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   (A)   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat,
if such change affects any street layout shown on such map, or area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan
legally reached prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions, such parcel shall be approved by the Planning Commission by the
same procedure, rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat
shows one or more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are
indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided into small building
sites, the Planning Commission may require that such parcel of land allow for
the future opening of streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets.
      (2)   Easements providing for the future opening and extension of such
streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-410 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time prior to the sale of any lot therein, by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   (B)   Such instrument shall be approved by the Planning Commission in like
manner as plats of subdivisions. The governing body may reject any such
instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its public
uses, improvements, streets or alleys.
   (C)   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved, and
recorded in like manner as plats of subdivisions; and being duly recorded or
filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys and
public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in such plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution of
such writing.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-411 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision regulations
so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured;
provided, that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent
and purpose of these regulations; and further provided the Planning Commission
shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon the
evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to where other property is located;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations is carried out; and
      (4)   The variance will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
zoning ordinance, master plan or official map.
   (B)   In approving variances, the Planning Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   (1)   A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in writing
by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and
all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-412 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   It is the duty of the administrative officer of the Planning
Commission to enforce the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   In addition to the administrative office of the Planning Commission,
the governing body may designate other such officials as it may deem
appropriate as enforcement officers with the duty of administering the
provisions of these regulations insofar as they have been adopted by the
governing body.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations.
   (D)   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land within the
area, transfers or sells or agrees to sell, or negotiates to sell any land by
reference to or exhibition thereof, or by other use of a plat of a subdivision
or a contract for deed or other instrument before such plat or deed or
instrument has been approved by the Commission and the City Council or Board of
County Commissioners, or whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any
parcel of ground, transfers or sells or agrees to sell, or negotiates to sell
any tract of land of less than ten acres where such tract was not shown of
record in the office of the County Clerk as separately owned at the effective
date of the regulations here provided and not located within a subdivision
approved according to law and filed of record in the office of the County
Clerk, or is so located, not comprising at least one entire lot as recorded,
without first obtaining the written approval of the Commission by its
endorsement on the instrument of transfer, or contract of sale or other
agreement to transfer, shall be subject to the penalties provided below; and
such transaction shall be unlawful and shall not be recorded by the County
Clerk.
   (E)   (1)   A violation of these regulations shall be deemed a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable as provided in §
1-108.
      (2)   Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-413 USAGE OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in this present tense
include the future tense; words used in the plural number include the singular;
the word HEREIN means in these regulations; the word REGULATIONS means these
regulations.
   BUILDING. Includes a structure; a BUILDING or structure includes any part
thereof.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, a partnership and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   USED or OCCUPIED. As applied to any land or building shall be construed to
include the words intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-414 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION. The officer as appointed
by the governing bodies to administer these regulations and to assist the
Planning Commission and other boards and commissions. If no such officer shall
be appointed, the building inspector shall serve as administrative officer.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use, which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   APPLICANT. The owner of the land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights-of-way, public
walks, parks or green strips, rural land or drainage channels or a combination
thereof.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of the county.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the governing body. All BONDS shall be approved by the governing body
wherever a bond is required by these regulations.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line or lines designating the area outside
of which buildings may not be erected.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   EASEMENT. The authorization or grant by a property owner for the use by
another of a designated portion of the owner’s property for a specified purpose
or purposes. An EASEMENT may be used by the owner of the property, provided
such use does not conflict with the use of the easement for its intended
purpose.
   EASEMENT, DRAINAGE. A grant of a right to discharge surface waters over or
across a portion of land. A DRAINAGE EASEMENT may not be obstructed, filled or
otherwise altered in such a manner as to reduce its usefulness for its intended
purpose.
   EASEMENT, PUBLIC.
      (1)   A grant to a public body of an easement as distinguished from a
grant to a private corporation or individual.
      (2)   In example, a PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT which is granted to a
municipal corporation which may be used by any authorized utility as compared
to an easement granted solely to a specified utility corporation.
   EASEMENT, RESERVE ACCESS. A grant of a right to prohibit access facilities,
usually private driveways, from one property to another or to a public right-
of-way.
   EASEMENT, UTILITY. A grant of a right to install and maintain utility
systems under, over and upon a designated portion of a property.
   GENERAL PLAN. The comprehensive development plan for the metropolitan area
which has been officially adopted to provide long range development policies
for the area subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and which
includes, among other things, a plan for land use, land subdivision,
circulation and community facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. Shall refer to the City Council or the Board of County
Commissioners.
   LOT. A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two or
more streets.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two nonintersecting sides abutting on two or more streets.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A double frontage lot which is to be developed with
the rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary means of ingress and
egress provided on a minor street.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record, as described in these regulations with necessary affidavits,
dedications and acceptances; and with complete bearings and dimensions of all
lines defining lots and blocks, streets and alleys, public areas and other
dimensions of land.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary drawing or drawings described in these
regulations indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Planning Commission for approval.
   PLAT, SKETCH. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of a preliminary plat
to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement
in the Planning Commission as to form of the plat and objectives of these
regulations.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by street,
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line or oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for other special use.
      (1)   The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall
mean that every right-of-way hereinafter established and shown on the final
plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such
right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or
parcels.
      (1)   RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat which
such RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   SAME OWNERSHIP. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership or unincorporated association or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockholder, partner or associate, or a member of his or her family
owns an interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity or
unincorporated association.
   STREET. Any public or private right-of-way which affords the primary means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A minor street which collects traffic from other minor
streets and serves as the most direct route to a major street or a community
facility.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREET, FRONTAGE OR SERVICE. A minor street auxiliary to and located on the
side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent areas
and for control of access.
   STREET, MAJOR. An arterial street which is designated on the major street
plan.
   STREET, MINOR. A street whose primary purpose is to provide access to
adjacent properties and which is designed so that its use by arterial traffic
will be discouraged.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
      (1)   Having an interest in land causes it, indirectly or directly, to be
divided into a subdivision;
      (2)   Directly or indirectly sells, leases or develops, or offers to
sell, lease or develop or advertises for sale, lease or development any
interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision;
      (3)   Engages directly or through an agent in the business of selling,
leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease or development a subdivision or
any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision; and
      (4)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of land into two or more lots,
tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development for the dedication or vacation of a public or private right-of-way
or easement.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
 
ARTICLE B. APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§12-420 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Plats. For all cases of subdividing within the scope of these
regulations, as defined in §
12-405 , a plat shall be drawn and submitted to the Planning Commission for
approval or disapproval.
      (1)   All subdivisions located within the corporate limits of the city
shall then be submitted to the City Council for acceptance of public streets,
alleys, easements and areas dedicated to public use.
      (2)   All subdivisions located within the unincorporated portions of the
county which are within the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission shall be
submitted to the Board for its acceptance of public streets, alleys, easements
and areas dedicated to public use.
   (B)   Phases. The subdivision process prescribed in these regulations shall
consist of three phases:
      (1)   Sketch plat;
      (2)   Preliminary plat and improvement plans; and
      (3)   Final plat.
   (C)   Exceptions to regulations.
      (1)   Lot splits. Whenever there is a tract or previously subdivided
parcel of land, under single ownership, which is to be resubdivided into four
or fewer lots, the proposed subdivision may be excepted from the procedural
requirements of this code (i.e., preliminary and final plats are not required);
however, this shall not constitute an exception from the design and improvement
requirements herein contained. These exceptions, or “lot splits,” shall be
permitted under the following provisions:
         (a)   An accurate survey plat of the proposed tract, and the
resubdivision thereof, prepared by a land surveyor registered in the state,
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission;
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall review the proposed “lot split” to
ensure compliance with all design and improvement requirements of this code;
         (c)   Unusable parcels shall not be created as a result of any “lot
split;”
         (d)   Tracts or lots subdivided to accommodate an existing
encroachment shall be conveyed jointly until encroachment no longer exists;
         (e)   Provision of street right-of-way easements in accordance with
this code;
         (f)   Upon approval, the Planning Commission Chairperson shall certify
the plat by signing said document;
         (g)   Upon denial, the reason(s) for denial shall be stated in writing
and transmitted to the applicant;
         (h)   Whenever a variance is requested from improvement standards, or
a street or other improvement is to be dedicated, the City Council shall have
final approval and acceptance rights; for all other lot splits, the action of
the Planning Commission shall be final; and
         (i)   A tract of land which has been subject to “lot splits” involving
more than five lots over any period of time shall not be allowed further use of
the “lot split” exception; said tract shall be subject to the procedures
contained herein for the platting of land.
      (2)   Lot line adjustment.
         (a)   Intent. The intent of a lot line adjustment is to address
existing problems pertaining to building encroachment, irregular shaped lots,
nonconforming lot sizes or to modify lot lines to promote orderly and efficient
community growth.
         (b)   Approval by Community Development Director. Unless referred by
the Community Development Director to the Planning Commission for review as
hereinafter provided, the Community Development Director shall approve or
conditionally approve a lot line adjustment without notice or hearing subject
to the following provisions.
            1.   A greater or lesser number of lots are not created by any “lot
line adjustment.”
            2.   No “lot line adjustment” shall be allowed unless all required
improvements are either completed and accepted by the city, or their
construction is secured under the applicable provisions of this code.
            3.   All proposed parcels or building sites involved in a “lot line
adjustment” shall abut on either an existing alley or adequate utility
easement, and on a publicly dedicated street.
            4.   The adjusted lots in a “lot line adjustment” shall meet the
building site dimensions for the district in which the lot is located, with
respect to configuration and access to public streets, or if the lots do not
meet these requirements, the adjusted lots do not increase the degree of
nonconformity.
            5.   The “lot line adjustment” does not create any lot which does
not meet the minimum lot width and area standards for the zone district in
which it is located.
            6.   The “lot line adjustment” does not increase the degree of
nonconformance of structures, lots or other factors with respect to zoning
standards.
            7.   “Lot line adjustment” requests shall be reviewed and approved
or denied by the Community Development Director, with the right of appeal to
the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Submission for approval. Each sketch plat, preliminary plat and final
plat submitted for approval shall be placed on the agenda of the Planning
Commission only after fulfilling the appropriate requirements of these
regulations. However, a plat not meeting all of the requirements may be
submitted providing the subdivider presents with the plat a written request for
specific exceptions and enumerates in detail the reasons therefor.
      (1)   Plats submitted for consideration by the Planning Commission shall
be presented to the administrative officer of the Commission not less than 15
days prior to the date of first consideration.
      (2)   The date of the regular meeting of the Planning Commission at which
the initial hearing on any plat required by these regulations is held shall
constitute the official submittal date of the plat at which the statutory
period required for formal approval or disapproval of the plat shall commence
to run.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977; Ord. 1619, passed 2-14-2006)
§12-421 SKETCH PLAT.
   (A)   The purpose of the sketch plat is to provide for the identification
and arbitration of the interests of the parties involved in the subdivision of
land. These parties include the subdivider, adjacent landowners, Planning
Commission and the governing body.
   (B)   Prior to submission of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall file
an application for sketch plat approval with the administrative officer of the
Planning Commission. This application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available from the administrative officer;
      (2)   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner including land under
the “same ownership” with an indication of which portion is proposed to be
subdivided;
      (3)   Be accompanied by a minimum of four copies of the sketch plat as
described in these regulations; and
      (4)   Include a list of adjoining property owners as reflected in the
latest tax rolls; and the mailing addresses of the owners or their
representatives.
   (C)   The sketch plat shall be reviewed by the administrative officer of the
Planning Commission with the advice of persons or agencies which he or she
shall so designate. In reviewing the sketch plat, the administrative officer
shall follow the procedures contained in these regulations.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a sketch plat, the administrative officer shall:
      (1)   Notify adjoining landowners of the sketch plat by first class mail
allowing ten days from the date of mailing for submission of comments;
      (2)   Prepare written comments and recommendations regarding the sketch
plat and transmit the report to the subdivider within 15 days of receipt of the
sketch plat.
      (3)   The report shall indicate whether the sketch plat shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission under one or more of the provisions of
these regulations; and
      (4)   In review of a sketch plat, particular attention will be given to
the arrangement, location, width of streets and their relation to topography;
sewage disposal, drainage, lot arrangement, the future development of adjacent
land, and the provisions of the general plan and other ordinances and
resolutions affecting land development use.
   (E)   The administrative officer shall refer the sketch plat to the Planning
Commission when one or more of the following conditions exists:
      (1)   If a sketch plat accompanies a rezoning request;
      (2)   If subdivider requests arbitration of recommendation of the
administrative officer;
      (3)   If the sketch plat includes an area of greater than 20 acres which
is to be developed in phases, the sketch plat shall be presented prior to or in
conjunction with the preliminary plat for the initial phase;
      (4)   If the sketch plat is, in the opinion of the administrative
officer, significantly at variance with an adopted neighborhood plan;
      (5)   If the sketch plat proposes any variance from the standards
established in these regulations; and
      (6)   If for any reason, the administrative officer believes the Planning
Commission should review the sketch plat before consideration of the
preliminary plat.
   (F)   (1)   The sketch plat shall be deemed approved only after:
         (a)   The subdivider has been notified of the administrative officer’s
recommendations and has agreed to comply therewith; or
         (b)   The Planning Commission has reviewed the sketch plat and has
approved it as submitted, conditionally approved it or approved a revision
thereof.
      (2)   In reviewing a sketch plat, the Planning Commission may approve the
submission of a preliminary plat bearing required changes rather than requiring
a revised sketch plat.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-422 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Based upon the approval of the sketch plat, the landowner or his or
her representative, may file an application for approval of a preliminary plat.
The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available at the office of the administrative
officer of the Planning Commission;
      (2)   Include all land which the applicant proposes to subdivide,
provided that the Planning Commission shall not require a preliminary plat for
an area in excess of 80 acres;
      (3)   Be accompanied by a minimum of four copies of the preliminary plat
as described in these regulations; and
      (4)   Comply in all respects with the sketch plat as approved.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for preliminary plat approval, the
administrative officer shall:
      (1)   Set a hearing date for Planning Commission’s review of the
preliminary plat; and
      (2)   Notify all adjacent property owners and the subdivider as required
for sketch plat approval.
   (C)   In order to minimize the duplication of platting work, the Planning
Commission may accept a development plan in lieu of a preliminary plat. Such
substitution shall be permitted only in those instances where the development
plan contains all information required on a preliminary plat.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall consider the preliminary plat at the
scheduled hearing, and any adjourned date thereof, and shall approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the preliminary plat within 60 days of the
official submission date, unless continuance is agreed upon by the subdivider.
If the preliminary plat is conditionally approved or disapproved, the reasons
for such action shall be stated in writing and signed by the Planning
Commission Chairperson and attached to a copy of the plat and transmitted to
the subdivider.
   (E)   The approval of a preliminary plat shall not be subject to any
termination date, provided that any plat undeveloped for a period of more than
three years from the date of preliminary plat approval shall be reviewed for
compliance with subsequent amendments to the ordinances and resolutions
governing the subdivision and use of land as specified in § 12-406.
   (F)   Prior to approval of a final plat, the Planning Commission may permit
the preliminary plat to be divided into two or more sections and may impose
such conditions upon filing of the final plat sections as it may deem necessary
to assure the orderly development of the plat.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-423 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Following approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall file
an application for final plat approval. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available at the office of the administrative
officer of the Planning Commission;
      (2)   Comply in all respects with the preliminary plat as approved by the
Planning Commission; and
      (3)   Be accompanied by a minimum of four paper copies and one original
cloth tracing or reproduction Mylar of the final plat as described in these
regulations.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a final plat, the administrative officer shall:
      (1)   Set a date for Planning Commissioner review of the final plat; and
      (2)   Review the final plat for conformance with Planning Commission
approval of the preliminary plat and prepare a report and recommendations for
the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall, within 45 days of the official
submission date, approve, modify and approve or disapprove the subdivision
application by resolution which shall set forth any conditions to which the
approval is subject, or reasons for disapproval. In the resolution, the
Planning Commission shall stipulate the period of time when the performance
bond shall be filed or the required improvements installed, whichever is
applicable. In no event shall a performance bond be submitted later than six
months from the date of the final resolution. In no case shall the period of
time for the completion of improvements exceed two years from the date of the
final resolution.
   (D)   Upon approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission, it shall
be submitted to the governing body for approval and acceptance of public ways
and service and utility easements and land dedicated to public use. This
approval of the plat shall be shown over the signature of the Mayor/Chairperson
and attested to by the City/County Clerk. The acceptance of dedications, as
evidenced by the signature of the Mayor/Chairperson shall not be executed prior
to the subdivider’s compliance of the provisions of these regulations.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-424 SIGNING AND RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Signing of plat.
      (1)   When a bond is required, the Chairperson of the Planning Commission
shall endorse approval on the final plat after the bond has been approved by
the governing body and all conditions of the resolution pertaining to the plat
have been satisfied; and
      (2)   When installation of improvements is required, the Chairperson of
the Planning Commission shall endorse approval on the plat after all conditions
of the resolution have been satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily
completed.
   (B)   Recording of the plat.
      (1)   Upon final approval of the plat and affixing of all required
signatures, the subdivider shall prepare two contact reproducibles which shall
be fully executed;
      (2)   The subdivider, accompanied by a representative of the Planning
Commission, shall file the original tracing and two contact reproducibles with
the County Clerk and shall be responsible for all filing fees; and
      (3)   The County Clerk shall enter the original tracing of record and
return one to the administrative officer of the Planning Commission.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
ARTICLE C. IMPROVEMENTS
§12-430 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All improvements shall be designed and installed in accordance with
all of the elements of the general plan and shall meet the minimum standards
established by the ordinances, resolutions and regulations relating thereto.
   (B)   (1)   Plans for all improvements herein required shall be prepared by
a qualified engineer, registered in the state.
      (2)   Two sets of the proposed plans and specifications for all
improvements shall be filed with the Planning Commission and approved by the
governing body prior to approval of the final plat. One set of “as built” plans
certified by an engineer registered in the state shall be filed with the City
Clerk prior to the acceptance by the City Council of any improvement installed
by the subdivider and with the Board prior to the acceptance by the Board of
any improvement installed by the subdivider.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-431 ASSURANCE OF PROVISION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the signing of the final plat by the Planning Commission
Chairperson, all subdividers shall be required to complete, in accordance with
the Planning Commission’s resolution and to the satisfaction of the local
government engineer, all the street, sanitary and other improvements, including
lot improvements which are required in these regulations and specified in the
preliminary plat or improvement plans.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, at its discretion, may waive the requirement
that the subdivider complete all public improvements prior to the signing of
the final plat, and, as an alternative, the applicant post a bond, provide an
escrow deposit or provide a letter of credit in an amount estimated by the
Planning Commission as sufficient to secure to the local government the
satisfactory completion of required improvements; provided, that signing of the
final plat shall not be accomplished prior to compliance with this section.
   (C)   (1)   Such performance bond or approved alternate shall comply with
all statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the local government
attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner of execution as set forth in these
regulations.
      (2)   The period within which required improvements must be completed
shall be specified by the Planning Commission in the resolution approving the
final subdivision plat and shall be incorporated in the surety and shall not in
any event exceed two years from the date of final approval. Such surety shall
be approved by the local government as to amount and conditions satisfactory to
the governing body.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may, upon proof of difficulty, recommend to
the governing body extension of the completion date set forth in such surety
for the maximum period of one additional year. The governing body may at any
time during the period of such surety accept a substitution of principal
sureties upon recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   A performance bond may be reduced upon actual construction of required
improvements to a ratio that the improvement bears to the total public
improvements as determined by the local government engineer. In no event shall
a performance bond be reduced below 25% of the principal amount prior to
completion of all required improvements.
   (E)   The governing body shall not release a performance bond or approved
alternate until the local government engineer has certified satisfactory
completion of all required improvements. Concurrent with the release of
performance bonds, the subdivider shall furnish the governing body with
maintenance bond or other acceptable surety to comply with the provisions of §
12-432.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-432 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   (A)   Prior to release of the performance bond or approved alternate or
signing of the final plat, the subdivider shall furnish the local government
with a maintenance bond, or escrow deposit, satisfactory to the local
government attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner of execution, to assure
the quality of materials and workmanship and maintenance of required
improvements in an amount equal to 10% of the cost of public improvements.
   (B)   The bond or approved alternate shall run for a period of 12 months
from the date of release of the final plat or performance bond or approved
alternate.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-433 PERMANENT MARKERS.
   Each lot and block corner shall be marked with iron pipes or pins not less
than one-half inch in diameter and not less than 18 inches long set not less
than one inch below the finished grade. Each subdivision corner shall be marked
with a permanent concrete marker capped with a non-corrosive metal plate set
not less than one inch below the finished grade.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-434 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider of any subdivision to be used for residential, commercial,
industrial or other purposes shall lay out, grade and pave all streets that are
designated on the approved plat or that directly serve the subdivision in
accordance with the standards and specifications of the local government except
where the governing bodies have policies of additional assistance to the owners
or developers and in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   The new design of an improvement of an intersection of any new street
with an existing state or federal highway shall be in accordance with the
specifications of the State Highway Department, but in no case shall the
standard be less than the applicable city or county specifications;
   (B)   Whenever a subdivision contains a major street that requires a street
facility that is more costly than is required to serve the future occupants of
the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay only the portion of
the cost of the major street that would equal the cost of an improvement
required to serve only the subdivision, as determined by the Planning
Commission; and
   (C)   All driveways which connect with public streets shall be constructed
in accordance with driveway standards for the city. (See §
12-709.)
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
Cross-reference:
   See also
Part 14, Chapter 6
§12-435 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   A plan for a system of sidewalks may be required to be included within
the improvement plans. The Planning Commission may require the construction of
sidewalks to connect with existing or future proposed sidewalks in areas
adjacent to the subdivision where such sidewalks are needed for pedestrian
circulation.
   (B)   Sidewalks and walkways where constructed in the subdivision shall be
in accordance with the sidewalks system plan approved by the Planning
Commission and in accordance with the specifications governing sidewalk and
walkway construction.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-436 WATER LINES.
   The subdivider shall install water lines and fire hydrants in accordance
with the policies and specifications governing water line construction except
where the governing bodies have policies of additional assistance to the owners
or developers.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-437 SANITARY SEWERS AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   Installation of sanitary sewers. The subdivider shall install sanitary
sewers whenever a sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible as determined by the
Planning Commission. Sanitary sewers shall be installed in accordance with the
specifications governing sanitary sewer construction and the regulations of the
State Department of Health.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers in subdivisions. When subdivisions contain five acres
or more, the Planning Commission may require the subdivider to install sanitary
sewers and a disposal system that is adequate to serve all of the lots within
the subdivision.
   (C)   Septic tanks. Whenever the installation of a sanitary sewer is not
required, septic tanks or other unit disposal systems may be used in accordance
with the following provisions:
      (1)   A lot for residential use on which a unit disposal system is
located shall not be less than 22,500 square feet in area;
      (2)   No portion of any unit disposal system shall be located closer than
20 feet to the lot line of the lot on which the system is located; and
      (3)   All unit disposal systems shall comply with the requirements of the
State and County Health Departments.
   (D)   Certificates for septic or unit disposal system. For any subdivision
where sanitary sewers are not to be installed, the final plat shall bear a
certificate attesting to the suitability of each lot for a septic or unit
disposal system. The certificate shall be executed by a registered engineer or
testing laboratory and approved by the County Health Department.
   (E)   Public sewage disposal systems in Stagestand Creek drainage basin Area
F.
      (1)   Purpose. To provide for public sewage disposal systems located in
the Stagestand Creek drainage basin Area F (hereinafter called Area F) to
connect to existing public sewage disposal systems in the Claridy Creek
drainage basin. Area F shall be as shown on the map titled “forcemain layout
and drainage basin locations,” dated June 1, 2009, as provided by Search, Inc.,
which is included herein by reference.
      (2)   When permitted; sanitation. Before approval of a final plat for
land subdivision or issuance of a building permit for any new building that is
to be served by a public sewage disposal system in Area F and that is to be
connected to the existing public sewer collection system, the applicant must
demonstrate to the city that the following requirements have been met:
         (a)   Availability of excess sewer capacity in the Claridy Creek
drainage basin for peak design flow(s) up to 85% of excess sewer capacity, as
defined in §
12-204;
         (b)   Such public sewage disposal system shall be designed,
constructed, maintained and operated at all times in a sanitary manner as
required by the State Department of Environmental Quality, County Department of
Health and the city;
         (c)   Applicant shall provide all necessary easements for all portions
of the public sewage disposal system;
         (d)   Applicant shall provide for all costs of and shall provide all
design, permitting and construction of the public sewage disposal system;
         (e)   Gravity portion of the system shall comply with provisions in
Chapter 5, Article C of this part; and
         (f)   The public sewage disposal system shall be designed, constructed
and maintained to serve only land lying in Area F, limited to the amount of
available excess sewer capacity.
      (3)   Existing developed properties. Existing developed properties at the
time of this chapter have the right to connect to the public sewage disposal
system upon application made and approved by the city. Applications made to
connect to the public sewage disposal system shall comply with all applicable
state and local codes and where excess sewer capacity is available to
accommodate such application.
      (4)   Appeals. An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment of
an administrative official or board or commission may be taken by any person or
persons, jointly or severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department,
board or commission of the city to the district court.
      (5)   Rates. Outside city limits rate, as provided for in the current
fees schedule approved by City Council setting forth such rates, shall apply to
properties on private lift stations in the Stagestand Creek drainage basin
until such time as the property is connected to a public sewage disposal system
in the Stagestand Creek drainage basin.
      (6)   Public sewer disposal system maintenance fee.
         (a)   After completion and acceptance of the public sewer disposal
system, the DPUA will require any person, firm or corporation requesting a new
sanitary sewer service connection within the defined service area of the public
sewer disposal system to pay to the DPUA a pro rata portion of the maintenance
and operation costs of the public sewer disposal system, such pro rata portion
to be calculated on a square footage basis of the total defined service area of
the public sewer disposal system. The total service area of the public sewer
disposal system shall equal Area F.
         (b)   Each tract of property identified in division (E)(6)(a) above
shall be subject to the total maintenance and operation cost participation
expense equal to pro rata share of each tract. Calculation of the costs for
each individual tract shall be determined as follows:
            1.   Formula:
 
Pro rata share = (b x c)/a
a = Total service area in square feet
b = Total maintenance and operation costs
c = Individual benefiting tract in square feet
 
            2.   Maintenance and operation costs shall include, but shall not
be limited to: administrative costs, personnel costs, power consumption costs,
repair costs and replacement costs.
            3.   The total payments calculated in this division (E)(6)(b) shall
become a liability against the property immediately upon connection to the
public sewage disposal system. Said maintenance and operation costs and the pro
rata share of said costs shall be calculated annually by DPUA and shall be paid
in equal monthly installments by the owner of the individual tract.
      (7)   Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
division (E) shall be assessed a penalty as provided for by §
1-108 .
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977; Ord. 1682, passed 2-9-2010)
§12-438 STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE.
   Drainage and drainage improvements shall be provided in accordance with the
specifications contained in the ordinances and regulations relating thereto.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-439 MAINTENANCE AND SUPERVISION.
   Where the subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment plants, water supply
systems or other physical facilities that are necessary or desirable for the
welfare of the area or that are of common use or benefit and which are not or
cannot be satisfactorily maintained by an existing public agency; provision
shall be made which is acceptable to the agency having jurisdiction over the
location and maintenance of such facilities for the proper and continuous
operation, maintenance and supervision of such facilities.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-440 PRIVATE ROADWAYS.
   A municipality which contains large areas of rural land not served by water
and sewer facilities by the municipality shall authorize the use of private
roadways in either platted or unplatted areas and shall issue building permits
to property owners whose property is abutting upon the private roadways without
complying with standards as provided for dedicated streets subject to the
following conditions.
   (A)   The private roadway easement shall be at least 50 feet in width.
   (B)   The property abutting upon the private roadway shall contain not less
than two acres; provided, however, if the covenants of the subdivision allow
for evapotranspiration absorption systems or an aerobic wastewater treatment
system, the property abutting upon the private roadway may contain not less
than one acre.
   (C)   The property shall be more than one-fourth mile from sewer and water
facilities furnished by the municipality.
   (D)   The private roadway shall not be dedicated to the public but reserved
for future dedication and, until such future dedication, shall be the private
roadway of the owners of the abutting property.
   (E)   The private roadway shall be maintained by the owners of the property
within the subdivision.
   (F)   The municipality shall have no responsibility for the maintenance or
repair of the private roadway.
   (G)   If the property is platted, there shall be emblematized on the face of
the plat, clearly conspicuous, a notice that the streets and drives have not
been dedicated to the public and that the streets shall be maintained by the
private property owners within the subdivision. The streets shall always be
open to police, fire and other official vehicles of all state, federal, county
and municipal agencies.
   (H)   Every deed shall clearly acknowledge that the roadway is private and
not maintained by the municipality.
   (I)   Prior to the sale of any parcel of land in the subdivision, a
conspicuous sign shall be posted at the entrance to the subdivision: “private
roadway not maintained by (the municipality).” At any time after the
municipality permits the use of the private roadway, a petition of the owners
of at least 60% of the owners in area of the land to improve and dedicate the
street shall bind all of the owners thereby to permanently improve the street
or roadway in compliance with the requirements of the municipality.
   (J)   The Planning Commission may require the developer of such property to
reserve appropriate utility easements for water, sewer and any other utility
installations as may be required for present and future development.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 45-104
§12-441 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide for private sewage disposal systems located in the
Stagestand Creek drainage basin to connect to existing public sewage disposal
systems in the Claridy, Willow and Cow Creek drainage basins.
   (B)   When permitted; sanitation. Where a public sanitary sewer is not
reasonably accessible within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the city per §
12-437 , the building sewer may be connected to a private sewage disposal
system that is connected to the existing public sewage collection system.
Before approval of a final plat for land subdivision or issuance of a building
permit for any new building that is to be served by a private sewage disposal
system that is to be connected to the existing public sewer collection system,
the applicant must demonstrate to the city that the following requirements have
been met:
      (1)   Availability of excess sewer capacity in the Cow Creek, Willow
Creek or Claridy Creek drainage basins for peak design flow(s) up to 85% of
excess sewer capacity, as defined herein;
      (2)   Such private sewage disposal system shall be designed, constructed,
maintained and operated at all times in a sanitary manner as required by the
State Department of Environmental Quality, County Department of Health and the
city;
      (3)   Applicant provision of private easements for all off-site portions
of the private sewage disposal system;
      (4)   Applicant shall provide operation and maintenance of the private
sewage disposal system, including establishing funding in a form acceptable to
the city based upon projected operating and maintenance costs of the private
sewage disposal system as identified by an engineer, until such time as the
private system can be dedicated and accepted by the city as a public system, as
defined herein;
      (5)   Gravity portion of the system shall comply with provisions in
Chapter 5, Article C of this part;
      (6)   Private sewage disposal system shall be designed, constructed and
maintained to serve all contiguous land owned by the applicant; and
      (7)   On-site private sewage disposal system constructed for eventual
connection to public system:
         (a)   The private sewage disposal system has been designed to ensure a
sanitary sewer service line stub is in a location sufficient to facilitate
future connection to a public sanitary sewer system, as determined by the City
Engineer;
         (b)   At such time that a public sanitary sewer line becomes
reasonably accessible to any property served by a private sewage disposal
system, the landowner(s) shall be required to discontinue use of the private
sewage disposal system and connect to the public sanitary sewer system in
accordance with the time frames for compliance specified below:
            1.   Within two years from the date that the public sanitary sewer
line became reasonably accessible to the property;
            2.   Immediately, or as soon as practicable thereafter as
determined by the City Engineer, upon evidence of failure of the existing
private sewage disposal system; or
            3.   Within 30 days of a change in ownership of the property.
         (c)   The property owner(s) shall sign and record with the County
Clerk’s office an affidavit of disclosure stating that they agree to suspend
use of the private sewage disposal system and connect to a public sanitary
sewer system when it is reasonably accessible to the property in accordance
with the time frames for compliance specified above, whichever one occurs first
with filing of final plat or issuance of building permit.
   (C)   Discontinuance standards. Whenever the use of a private sewage system
is discontinued due to a voluntary or mandatory connection to the public
sanitary sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the
property owner shall fill any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage facilities shall be filled with suitable material in accordance with
state and county regulations within 90 days after discontinuance.
   (D)   Appeals. An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment of an
administrative official or board or commission may be taken by any person or
persons, jointly or severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department,
board or commission of the city to the district court.
   (E)   Rates. Outside city limits rate, as provided for in the current fees
schedule approved by City Council setting forth such rates, shall apply to
properties on private lift stations in the Stagestand Creek drainage basin
until such time as the property is connected to a public sewage disposal system
in the Stagestand Creek drainage basin.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
section shall be assessed a penalty as provided for by §
1-108 .
(Ord. 1680, passed 10-27-2009)
ARTICLE D. DESIGN
§12-450 MINIMUM STANDARDS AND GENERAL POLICIES.
   (A)   The standards and policies for development contained in these
regulations, the zoning regulations, the building code, the major street plan
and other regulations governing land development are established as minimum
standards. However, the general plan expresses policies which are intended to
achieve optimum quality of urban development. If only the minimum standards are
followed, as expressed by the various regulations affecting land development, a
standardization of development will occur. This will produce a monotonous urban
setting. Subdivision design should be of a quality to carry out the purpose and
spirit of the policies expressed in the general plan and in these regulations
rather than be limited to the minimum standards required herein.
   (B)   The minimum design standards established in these regulations shall
provide the basic criteria for the evaluation of proposed subdivision. The
Planning Commission may, however, establish reasonable design requirements in
excess of the established minimum standards where, by reason of exceptional
topographic, hydrologic or other physical feature, the strict adherence to
these standards will result in an inappropriate subdivision design.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-451 URBAN DESIGN PRINCIPLES.
   The quality of design of the urban area is dependent on the quality of
design of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good community design
requires the coordination of the efforts of each subdivider and developer of
land within the urban area. Therefore, the design of each subdivision shall be
prepared in accordance with the principles established by the general plan for
land, circulation, community facilities and public utility services and in
accordance with the following general principles.
   (A)   (1)   It is intended that the urban area should be designed as a group
of integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate commercial and
industrial and public facilities. The neighborhood as a planning unit is
intended as an area principally for residential use, and is of a size that can
be served by one elementary school.
      (2)   Space for religious, recreational, education and shopping
facilities to serve the residents of the neighborhood should be provided and
designed as an integral part of each neighborhood.
   (B)   The size of lots and blocks and other areas for residential,
commercial, industrial and public uses should be designed to provide adequate
light, air, open space, landscaping, off-street parking and loading facilities.
   (C)   The arrangement of lots and blocks and the street system should be
designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical
features. Tree masses and large individual trees should be preserved. The
system of sidewalks and roadways and the lot layout should be designed to take
advantage of the visual qualities of the area.
   (D)   Circulation within the urban area shall be provided in accordance with
the following design criteria.
      (1)   Each subdivision shall provide for the continuation of all arterial
streets and highways as shown on the major street plan. Arterial streets should
be located on the perimeter of the residential neighborhood.
      (2)   Minor streets should be designed to provide access to each parcel
of land within the residential neighborhood and within industrial areas, and in
a manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should be planned so
that future urban expansion will not require the conversion of minor streets to
arterial routes.
      (3)   Collector streets should be designed to provide a direct route from
other minor streets to the major street system.
      (4)   Ingress and egress to residential properties should be provided
only on minor streets.
      (5)   Pedestrianways should be separated from roadways used by vehicular
traffic. Sidewalks should be designed to provide all residential building sites
with direct access to all neighborhood facilities, including the elementary
school, parks, playgrounds, churches and shopping centers.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-452 SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of
streets shall conform to all of the elements of the general plan and shall be
designed in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Major streets shall be planned to conform with the major street
plan.
      (2)   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
major street, the Planning Commission may require service streets, reverse
frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation along the
rear property line, deep lots or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
arterial and local traffic.
      (3)   Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by arterial
traffic will be discouraged.
      (4)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way
or limited access highway right-of-way, the Planning Commission may require a
street approximately parallel to, and on each side of such right-of-way at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land. Such
distances also shall be determined with due regard for the requirements of
approach grades and future grade separation structures.
      (5)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited
except where their control is placed in the city or county under conditions
approved by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, such lots or parcels shall be arranged to permit the logical location
and opening of future streets and appropriate resubdivision with provision for
adequate utility easements.
      (7)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet should be
avoided.
      (8)   Street right-of-way widths shall be in accordance with the major
street plan and, where not designated therein, shall be not less than the
following.
Major streets
Primary with median              120 feet
Primary without median           100 feet
Secondary with or without median 80 feet
Minor streets
Collector                        60 feet
Cul-de-sac                       50 feet
Minor                            50 feet
 
      (9)   The grades of all streets shall not exceed the following, except
where unusual topographic conditions justify in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, a modification of these standards.
 
Major streets
Primary                            5%
Secondary                          7%
Minor streets                      10%
No street grade shall be less than 0.5%
 
      (10)   The paved width of all streets shall be adequate to serve the
existing and future terminated traffic load for the facility. Lane widths for
all streets shall be as follows.
         (a)   All major streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of not
less than 11 feet or more than 12 feet in width and lanes for parallel parking
or emergency stopping of not less than ten feet in width.
         (b)   All minor streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of not
less than ten feet or more than 12 feet in width and lanes for parallel parking
of not less than six feet in width.
         (c)   Streets shall conform to the standards illustrated by Figure 1,
design standards for urban streets.
      (11)   A cul-de-sac shall not exceed 500 feet in length, measured from
the nearest point providing two directional through traffic to the center of
the turnaround. If a cul-de-sac is more than 150 feet in length it shall be
provided with a turnaround having a radius of not less than 40 feet at the curb
line. There should be provided in the center of the turnaround an unpaved
island, which has a radius of not less than 12 feet nor more than 25 feet. Any
unpaved island shall be improved with grass and landscaping in such a manner
that it will not interfere with sight distance.
      (12)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where they are essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and provided that the Planning Commission
finds it will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the
street easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever a half
street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be platted within such tract.
      (13)   The arrangement of streets shall be such as to cause no hardship
in the subdividing of adjacent properties. The Planning Commission may require
the dedication of street rights-of-way to facilitate the development of
adjoining properties.
      (14)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the
approval of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the Planning Commission may waive this requirement where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street
loading, unloading and parking consistent with that adequate for the uses
proposed.
      (1)   Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas shall not be less
than 30 feet in width.
      (2)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment should be
avoided; but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit
safe vehicular movement.
      (3)   Dead end alleys should be avoided; but where necessary, facilities
at the dead end may be permitted, as determined by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   (1)   Where alleys are not provided, easements for public and private
utilities shall be provided along rear lot lines and side lot lines where
necessary.
      (2)   Easements along rear and side lot lines shall be, wherever
possible, centered along the lot lines with a total width of 20 feet. Where
appropriate, the Planning Commission may allow easements with a minimum width
of 15 feet.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may require aerial easements and easements
of greater width for the extension of main storm and sanitary sewers and other
utilities where it is deemed necessary.
   (D)   (1)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage
channel or stream, which drains 160 acres or more of land, there shall be
provided a right-of-way for drainage and public parks and public utility
purposes, adequate to contain all of the runoff from a 50-year maximum flood.
      (2)   The right-of-way shall include all of the land within the
subdivision that has an elevation that will remain below the 50-year maximum
flood elevation which shall be calculated in accordance with, and shall be
adequate to provide for, the drainage requirements of the ordinances and
regulations relating thereto.
   (E)   Public parks, playgrounds, school sites and other public areas and
open spaces shall be provided in accordance with the requirements and standards
set forth in the general plan and in the ordinances and regulations relating
thereto.
   (F)   Where a sketch plat contains an area reserved for public use, in
accordance with this section, the Planning Commission shall refer such sketch
plat, with recommendations, to the governing body for resolution of the
governing body’s intent to accept such dedication in accordance with the
ordinances and regulations relating thereto.
   (G)   Where the proposed public area or open space is rejected by the
governing body, the subdivider shall revise the sketch plat so as to
incorporate the area into the lots and blocks of the proposed subdivision and
submit the revised sketch plat to the Planning Commission.
   (H)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard for the following:
      (1)   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the primary arterial and
front onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the
arterial, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land along the rear
property line of such lots;
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loops entered
from and designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with the
rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the major arterial; and
      (3)   A marginal access or service road (separated from the primary
arterial by a planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable
points).
   (I)   Residential lots, with the exception of townhouses, shall not be less
than 50 feet in width at the front building line and shall abut a street a
distance of not less than 30 feet; except that a corner lot shall be not less
than 60 feet in width at the front building line.
   (J)   Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles or radial to
street lines.
   (K)   The depth of residential lots should be not less than 120 feet
exclusive of any drainage easement.
   (L)   The area of a residential lot, exclusive of townhouse development,
shall not be less than 6,000 square feet.
   (M)   (1)   In residential subdivisions where septic tank or individual
sewage disposal devices are to be installed, the area of the lot shall be not
less than 22,500 square feet if to be served by public water, or 35,000 square
feet if to be served by a private water source.
      (2)   In no case shall a lot served by an individual sewage disposal
system have a width of less than 120 feet at the front building line.
   (N)   Lots are not required for subdivisions for commercial and industrial
use but, when provided, they should be of appropriate size and arrangement to
provide for adequate off-street parking and loading facilities based on the
intended use.
   (O)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided except
where they are needed to provide for the separation of development from
arterial streets or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation. A planting screen easement of at least 20 feet in width shall be
provided along the portion of the lots abutting such a traffic artery or other
use where screening is required. There shall be no right of access across a
planting screen easement.
   (P)   Building lines shall be provided for all residential subdivisions as
follows.
      (1)   A front building line shall be located at least 25 feet back of the
street right-of-way line.
      (2)   A side yard building line on the side of a corner lot abutting the
street shall be located not less than 15 feet back of the street right-of-way
when such lot is back-to-back with another corner lot and not less than 20 feet
back of the street right-of-way line in every other case.
      (3)   A side yard building line shall be provided not less than five feet
back of a crosswalk right-of-way or easement line on the side of a lot abutting
a midblock crosswalk.
      (4)   Restrictions requiring buildings to be located within the building
lines shown on the plat shall be set forth on the plat or on a separate
recorded instrument.
   (Q)   (1)   Whenever a subdivision is developed as a planned unit
development under the provisions of the zoning regulations, wherein adequate
park or playground area is provided, through traffic is cared for adequately
and the majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac or loop type, the
Planning Commission may vary the requirements of this article in order to allow
the subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of streets and lots, but at the
same time protect the convenience, health, safety and welfare of the entire
community.
      (2)   However, in no case shall the gross density, intensity of use or
land area coverage for the planned unit development exceed those minimums
established in the zoning regulations.
   (R)   For purposes of platting a planned unit development, the site
development plan as required by the zoning regulations, may at the Planning
Commission’s discretion, be considered as the sketch plat and shall substitute
for the preliminary plat when bearing all information required for a
preliminary plat.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
ARTICLE E. SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS
§12-460 SKETCH PLAT.
   Sketch plats submitted to the Planning Commission shall be prepared in pen
or pencil, neatly drawn at a convenient scale of not more than 100 feet to one
inch and shall bear the following information:
   (A)   Name and ownership;
   (B)   Name of the proposed subdivision;
   (C)   Name, address and telephone number of the legal owner or agent of
property owner and citation of last instrument conveying title to the owner;
   (D)   Citation of any rights-of-way or easements affecting the property;
   (E)   Name, address and telephone number of person(s) responsible for the
subdivision design;
   (F)   Full legal description of property by government lot, section,
township, range and county, graphic scale, north arrow and date; and
   (G)   Contents of sketch plat:
      (1)   The location of adjoining property lines, intersecting or adjacent
streets, alleys or easements; provided however, the actual measured distances
shall not be required;
      (2)   Land contours with vertical intervals not greater than five feet
referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic survey
benchmark or monument;
      (3)   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, the proposed location of streets, alleys, easements and approximate lot
dimensions;
      (4)   The location of all drainage channels and proposed drainage
structures and easements or rights-of-way; and
      (5)   The location and approximate size of any proposed open spaces
whether private or proposed public dedications.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-461 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Preliminary plats submitted to the Planning Commission shall be
prepared in pen or pencil, neatly drawn at a convenient scale of not more than
100 feet to one inch and shall bear or be accompanied by a statement signed by
a registered land surveyor in the state and a registered engineer in the state
certifying that he, she or they have (has), to the best of his, her or their
ability, designed the subdivision in accordance with the general plan and the
ordinances and regulations governing the subdivision of land and provision of
public improvements, except where an exception is requested in writing and the
reasons for which are clearly stated.
   (B)   Contents of preliminary plat shall be as follows:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of record, of the subdivider, of
the registered surveyor responsible for subdivision design and of the
registered engineer responsible for improvement plans;
      (3)   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision
referenced to existing or proposed major streets and to government section
lines, and including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of
which the proposed subdivision is a part;
      (4)   The scale, north point and date;
      (5)   The names, with location of intersecting boundary lines, or
adjoining subdivisions, and the location of city limits, if falling within or
immediately adjoining the tract;
      (6)   The land contours with vertical intervals not greater than two feet
referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic survey
benchmark or monument;
      (7)   The location of existing buildings, water, watercourses and the
location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin or are immediately
adjacent to the subdivision; provided, however, that actual measured distances
shall not be required;
      (8)   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements and setback
lines and the approximate lot dimensions;
      (9)   The location, approximate size and type of sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains, culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface
and subsurface structures and pipelines existing within or immediately adjacent
to the proposed subdivision; and the location, layout, type and proposed size
of the following structures and utilities:
         (a)   Water mains;
         (b)   Sanitary sewer mains, submains and laterals;
         (c)   Storm sewers, culverts and drainage structures; and
         (d)   Street improvements.
      (10)   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, the proposed methods of disposing of all runoff from the proposed
subdivision and the location and size of all drainage easements relating
thereto whether they are located within or outside of the proposed plat; and
      (11)   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street based on the
proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate term,
expressway, primary thoroughfare, secondary thoroughfare, collector or minor
street in parentheses, directly on each street.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-462 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   (1)   The final plat shall be neatly drawn in ink on tracing cloth or
reproducible Mylar at a scale of at least 100 feet to the inch from an accurate
survey and shall comply with the following format: The final plat shall be
prepared on sheets whose dimensions are 24 by 36 inches.
      (2)   The plat shall have a left side margin of two inches; right side
margin of not less than one inch; and top and bottom margins of not less than
one and one-half inches. On the first sheet of every plat there shall be a map
showing the location of the subdivision referenced to government survey section
lines and major streets. If more than two sheets are required for the plat, the
key map shall show the number of the sheet for each area.
   (B)   The final plat shall bear the following information:
      (1)   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision
shall be referenced;
      (2)   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes as hereafter specified;
      (3)   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned
by lengths and bearings, the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands and
adjacent subdivisions identified by official names. Material which is not a
part of the subdivision shall be shown in dashed or dotted lines;
      (4)   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles;
      (5)   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length or direction of
an alley is not readily discernible from data given for lot and block lines,
the length or bearing shall be given;
      (6)   The widths, and names where appropriate, of all proposed streets
and alleys, and of all adjacent streets, alleys and easements which shall be
properly located;
      (7)   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles; except where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value be omitted;
      (8)   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings, with the area marked
public;
      (9)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision, the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block and with
areas to be excluded from platting marked “Reserved” or “Not a Part”;
      (10)   The location of all building lines, setback lines and easements
for public services or utilities with dimensions showing their locations;
      (11)   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection and
central angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns;
      (12)   The proper acknowledgments of owners and the consent of the
mortgagee to plat restrictions;
      (13)   The following, which shall be made and shown on the cloth tracing:
         (a)   Owner’s certificate and dedication, signed;
         (b)   Surveyor’s certificate of survey, signed and his or her seal;
         (c)   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public, signed;
         (d)   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the county recorder of deeds which directly
affect the land being subdivided;
         (e)   Certificate of Planning Commission approval;
         (f)   Certificate of City Council or Board acceptance of ways,
easements and public land dedications;
         (g)   Treasurer’s certificate; and
         (h)   Certificate of Health Department approval where sanitary sewers
are not proposed, signed.
      (14)   A title which shall include:
         (a)   Name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Name of city, county and state; and
         (c)   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to
section, range and township.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-463 IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Construction plans as required in these regulations shall be prepared
for all required improvements. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of not more than
one inch equals 100 feet on sheets of 24 inches by 36 inches.
   (B)   Plans for required improvements shall comply with all standards and
specifications adopted by ordinance or resolution by the governing body.
   (C)   Improvement plans shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section
of proposed street improvements including curbs and gutters and sidewalks;
      (2)   The location, size, profile and invert elevations of proposed
sanitary sewers, including manholes;
      (3)   The location and size of proposed water mains, valves, fittings and
fire hydrants, including service taps underneath proposed streets;
      (4)   The location and design of drainage structures, easements or
rights-of-way dedicated to the public including typical cross-sections of all
channel improvements and a site grading plan. Improvement plans shall be
accompanied by drainage calculations in accordance with the adopted standards
and regulations for drainage improvements; and
      (5)   The location of all existing or proposed easements and rights-of-
way and a typical cross-section of the proposed utility installations with the
easements.
   (D)   Improvement plans shall be prepared by and bear the seal of a
registered engineer in the state.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
CHAPTER 5: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
12-501   Application
   
12-502   Administration
   
12-503   Variances from standards
Article B. Street Improvements
   
12-510   General
   
12-512   Design
   
12-513   Typical sections
   
12-514   Street intersections
   
12-515   Compliance with standard specifications
Article C. Sanitary Sewer Improvements
   
12-520   General
   
12-521   Compliance with the facilities plan
   
12-522   Minimum size
   
12-523   Design criteria
   
12-524   Materials
Article D. Water Main Improvements
   
12-530   General
   
12-531   Improvements required
   
12-532   Compliance with water plan
   
12-533   Water main design criteria
   
12-534   Fire hydrants
   
12-535   Taps
   
12-536   Materials
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§12-501 APPLICATION.
   Any person who develops or subdivides any residential, multi-family
dwellings, commercial, industrial or institutional property within the scope of
the subdivision regulations of the City/County Planning Commission, as adopted
by the city, shall provide and install the required public improvements in
accordance with the standards and specifications enumerated herein.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-502 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The standards and specifications contained herein shall be deemed an
addendum to and shall be administered in conjunction with the subdivision
regulations of the City/County Planning Commission. It is the duty and
responsibility of the City Engineer to review all improvement plans, as
required by the subdivision regulations, for compliance with the standards and
specifications contained herein.
   (B)   Improvement plans shall be approved by the governing body as specified
in
Chapter 4, Article C of this part.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-503 VARIANCES FROM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where, by reasons of exceptional topographic, hydrologic or other
physical features, the strict compliance with the standards prescribed herein
shall be inappropriate, the developer may submit a written request for a
variance in these improvement standards.
   (B)   Any request for a variance in these improvement standards shall be
submitted to the City Engineer and shall specify the conditions necessitating
such request and the proposed alternative improvement.
   (C)   Upon adequate review, the City Engineer shall make a report and
recommendation on the requested variance. Such report shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for recommendation to the City Council.
   (D)   The Planning Commission’s recommendation and the Engineer’s report
shall be transmitted to the City Council, for final action. Any Council action
to approve such a request shall specify the nature and extent of the variance
and the nature and type of improvements to be provided by the developer.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
ARTICLE B. STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§12-510 GENERAL.
   (A)   All street improvements shall be designed in conformance with the
provisions of the subdivision regulations.
   (B)   In addition, the design, layout and construction of all streets within
the city shall conform to the design and construction specifications herein.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-512 DESIGN.
   Streets shall conform in design and layout to the criteria established in §
12-520, Table 1, “Street Design Standards For The City of Duncan,” of this
chapter.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-513 TYPICAL SECTIONS.
   (A)   Concrete streets shall be constructed in accordance with the diagram
contained in §
12-520, Table 2, “Typical Section For Concrete Streets,” of this chapter.
   (B)   Asphalt streets shall be constructed in accordance with the diagram
contained in §
12-520, Table 3, “Typical Section For Asphalt Streets,” of this chapter.
   (C)   Residential estate streets shall be constructed in accordance with the
diagram contained in §
12-520, Table 4, “Typical Section For Residential Estate Streets,” of this
chapter.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-514 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Streets shall be laid out to intersect at right angles and may be
curved, if necessary, in order to make this possible. In no event shall a
street intersect any other street at any angle of less than 75 degrees.
   (B)   Street corners on local streets shall have a minimum radius of 25 feet
at the curb line. Street intersections involving major streets shall have a
minimum street corner radius of 30 feet at the curb line.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§12-515 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street construction shall be in compliance with the standard street
construction specifications of the city. Contracts for such construction of
public streets shall include, in whole or by reference, the provisions of the
city’s standard street construction specifications. There shall be no variance
from these specifications unless approved in writing by the City Engineer.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
ARTICLE C. SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS
§12-520 GENERAL.
   Where sanitary sewage facilities are required in conjunction with the
development or subdivision of land, the subdivider shall install the facilities
in a manner prescribed by the standard specifications for sanitary sewers for
the city, which shall be incorporated, in whole or by reference, into all
contracts for such work. All improvements shall be designed in accordance with
the rules, regulations and standards of the local government, the local
government engineer, the State Department of Health and other appropriate
agencies. All sanitary sewer improvements shall be designed by an engineer
registered in the state.
  Table 1
Street Design Standards for the City of Duncan
Design Element Major Streets                               Minor Streets
               Primary Thoroughfare Secondary Thoroughfare Collector Local
  Table 1
Street Design Standards for the City of Duncan
                    Major Streets             Minor Streets
Design Element      Primary      Secondary    Collector Local
                    Thoroughfare Thoroughfare
Design speed        40           30           30        25
Grade:
Maximum             5%           7%           10%       10%
Minimum             0.5%         0.5%         0.5%      0.5%
Stopping sight      350 feet     200 feet     200 feet  200 feet
distance
Minimum paving
thickness:
Asphalt section     Structurally Structurally 5 inches  5 inches1
                    designed     designed
Concrete            Structurally Structurally 6 inches  6 inches1
                    designed     designed
Lane width          12 feet      12 feet      10 feet   10 feet2
Number of lanes     4            4            2         2
Number of parking   -            -            2         1
lanes
Residential estate  -            -            Bituminous surface or slurry
section                                       seal
Right-of-way width  100 feet     80 feet      60 feet   50 feet
Shoulder or parking 10 feet      10 feet      6 feet    6 feet
lanes
Notes:
1. Minor commercial streets shall have a minimum paving thickness of 6
inches.
2. Minimum width for a local street shall be 26 feet.
All streets shall have 6-inch concrete curbs.
 
Table 2
Typical Section for Concrete Streets
Table 2
Typical Section for Concrete Streets
Notes:
   1.   This standard shall apply to minor streets as defined in Table 1 of this
section.
   2.   Street widths shall be measured from inside of curb to inside of curb.
   3.   Curbs shall be 6 inches in height and conform to the typical curb section
as approved by the local government engineer.
   4.   Street shall slope from the centerline to curb at 1/4 fall per foot.
   5.   Detailed specifications available from local government engineer.
 
Table 3
Typical Section for Asphalt Streets
Table 3
Typical Section for Asphalt Streets
Notes:
   1.   This standard shall apply to minor streets as defined in Table 1 of this
section.
   2.   Street widths shall be measured from inside of curb to inside of curb.
   3.   Curbs shall be 6 inches in height and conform to the typical curb section
as approved by the local government engineer.
   4.   Street shall slope from the centerline to curb at 1/4 fall per foot.
   5.   Base shall vary in accordance with local conditions and shall be approved
by the local government engineer.
 
Table 4
Typical Section for Residential Estate Streets
Table 4
Typical Section for Residential Estate Streets
 
Notes:
   1.   This standard shall apply to minor streets within the R-4 Residential
Estate Zoning District.
   2.   Street widths shall be measured from inside of curb to inside of curb.
   3.   Curbs shall be 6 inches in height and conform to the typical curb section
as approved by the local government engineer.
   4.   Street shall slope from the centerline to curb at 1/4 fall per foot.
   5.   Base shall vary in accordance with local conditions and shall be approved
by the local government engineer.
 
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977; Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§ 12-521 COMPLIANCE WITH THE FACILITIES PLAN.
   A sanitary sewer main improvement shall correspond with the city’s sanitary
sewer facilities plan or other approved sanitary sewer report or document, and
the improvement shall be designed in accordance with the facilities plan or
approved report. Any sanitary sewer main extension shall extend the entire
frontage of the property proposed for development as identified in the
facilities plan or report. When the improvement required by the facilities plan
exceeds the capacity needed to serve the proposed development, the city may
participate in the excess cost of such facility in accordance with the
provisions of §§ 12-901 et seq.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977; Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994; Ord. 1610, passed 10-
25-2005)
§ 12-522 MINIMUM SIZE.
   The minimum size of a public sanitary sewer shall be eight inches in
diameter.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§ 12-523 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   All sewers shall be laid with straight alignment between manholes,
unless otherwise directed or approved by the local government engineer.
   (B)   Manholes shall be installed at all changes in grade, size or
alignment; at all intersections; and at distances not greater than 400 feet for
sanitary sewers of less than ten inches in diameter; and 500 feet for sanitary
sewers of ten inches in diameter and larger.
   (C)   Manhole construction shall conform to the standard specifications for
manhole construction as prepared by the local government engineer. Any
variation from this standard shall require the approval of the local government
engineer.
   (D)   (1)   Lampholes and cleanouts shall not be allowed on sanitary sewer
lines in excess of 200 feet in length, measured from the nearest manhole. Sewer
lines in excess of 200 feet shall be terminated with a manhole.
      (2)   Lampholes and cleanouts shall be constructed in conformance with
the standard plans and specifications as prepared by the local government
engineer.
   (E)   Sanitary sewers shall be located in street or alley rights-of-way or
utility easements:
      (1)   When located in utility easements, manholes shall be located at
each street or alley crossing;
      (2)   When located in a street or alley right-of-way containing a public
water supply, sanitary sewers shall be on the opposite side of the right-of-way
from the water supply whenever possible; and
      (3)   Sanitary sewers in street or alley rights-of-way shall have a
minimum cover of not less than six feet.
   (F)   A minimum horizontal distance of ten feet shall be maintained between
parallel water and sewer mains. At points where sewers cross water mains, the
sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe or encased in concrete for a
distance of ten feet in each direction from the crossing, measured
perpendicular to the water line. This will not be required when the water main
is at least two feet above the sewer.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§ 12-524 MATERIALS.
   Sanitary sewer improvements shall be constructed of approved materials
meeting the following specifications:
   (A)   Clay sewer pipe: ASTM C13, standard strength or C200, extra strength;
   (B)   Cast iron pipe: AWWA class 22;
   (C)   PVC: ASTM D3034, SDR 35;
   (D)   Cement: ASTM C150-52, class 1;
   (E)   Mortar sand: Section 703, standard specifications for highway
construction (Oklahoma, 1959); and
   (F)   Brick: ASTM C62-50.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977; Ord. 1311, passed 6-11-1991)
ARTICLE D. WATER MAIN IMPROVEMENTS
§ 12-530 GENERAL.
   Wherever the extension of public water mains is required or proposed in
conjunction with the development or subdivision of land, the developer shall
make provision for such extension in compliance with the standards contained
herein, and the standard specifications for water line construction of the
city. The standard specifications shall be made a part, in whole or by
reference, of any contract for the installation and construction of any water
main to be connected to the public water supply. In addition, all water main
extensions shall comply with the regulations of the State Department of Health
and other appropriate agencies.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§ 12-531 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   The developer of land shall provide and install water mains, fire hydrants
and all necessary valves and fittings. The cost of these improvements shall be
borne by the developer except as provided in §
12-532.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§ 12-532 COMPLIANCE WITH WATER PLAN.
   (A)   A water main improvement shall correspond to improvements contained in
the latest water distribution system development plan or map, and the developer
shall provide water mains in compliance with the provisions of that plan or
map. Any water main extension shall extend the entire frontage of the property
proposed for development as identified in the latest water distribution system
plan or map.
   (B)   Whenever compliance with the water distribution system development
plan requires a water main in excess of that needed to serve the proposed
development, the city may participate in any excess costs imposed by such
compliance in accordance with the provisions of §§
12-909 et seq.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977; Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994; Ord. 1610, passed 10-
25-2005)
§ 12-533 WATER MAIN DESIGN CRITERIA.
   In order to facilitate the development of an adequate water distribution
system, the following standards will be applied to water main extensions.
   (A)   Major trunk lines (generally along section line roads) shall be
minimum of 12 inches in diameter unless otherwise specified in the water
distribution development plan.
   (B)   Secondary lines (generally along or approximate to quarter section
lines) shall be a minimum of eight inches in diameter.
   (C)   All other water mains shall be a minimum of six inches in diameter.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§ 12-534 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Fire hydrants shall be required for all water main extensions. Fire hydrants
shall be located within 300 feet of any lot or structure, measured along the
shortest public roadway route from the nearest hydrant. Hydrants and
installation shall comply with the specifications in the standard
specifications for water line construction as prepared by the local government
engineer.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§ 12-535 TAPS.
   (A)   Minimum service tap shall be a three-fourths inch tap. Where to be
installed on the opposite side of a street from the water main, a single three-
fourths inch or larger tap shall be installed under the roadbed for each lot or
tract prior to surfacing the roadway.
   (B)   Where existing streets are to be crossed, taps shall be bored
underneath the street in all possible instances.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977)
§ 12-536 MATERIALS.
   (A)   All public water mains and all mains attached or proposed to be
attached to the public water supply shall be constructed of PVC pipe or ductile
iron pipe or both and shall be manufactured in accordance with the following
standards: Most current federal specifications published at the time building
permits are requested, at the time any federal, state, county or municipal
project plans and/or requests are provided to the City Engineer or engineer
retained by the city. Specifications referred to herein shall apply to both PVC
and ductile iron. If specifications shall change after the projects referred to
herein are approved, then the specifications used shall be those published at
the time of approval. This division (A) shall supersede all prior code
sections.
   (B)   Nominal wall thickness, joint types, valves, fittings and
appurtenances shall comply with the specifications in the city’s standard
specifications for water line construction as prepared by the local government
engineer.
(Res. 901, passed 5-10-1977; Ord. 1707, passed 2-28-2012)
CHAPTER 6: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Article A. Statutory Authorization; Findings of Fact; Purpose and Methods
   
12-601   Statutory authorization
   
12-602   Findings of fact
   
12-603   Statement of purpose
   
12-604   Methods of reducing flood losses
Article B. Definitions
   
12-605   Definitions enumerated
Article C. General Provisions
   
12-606   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
12-607   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
12-608   Establishment of development permit
   
12-609   Compliance
   
12-610   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
12-611   Interpretation
   
12-612   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Article D. Administration
   
12-613   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
12-614   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
12-615   Permit procedures
   
12-616   Variances
Article E. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
12-617   General standards
   
12-618   Specific standards
   
12-619   Standards for subdivisions
   
12-620   Other applicable regulations
   
12-621   Floodways
   
12-622   Severability
Article F. Floodplain Management Fee Schedule
   
12-623   Fee schedule
Article G. Penalties For Noncompliance
   
12-624   Penalties
ARTICLE A. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE AND    METHODS
§12-601 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt ordinances designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the city ordains the following to become effective immediately.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-602 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-603 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-604 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
ARTICLE B. DEFINITIONS
§12-605 DEFINITIONS ENUMERATED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the city
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BFE. Base flood elevation.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or 1% chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Floodplain Administrator
which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in accordance with
this chapter.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zones AE, A and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A and X, ELEVATED
BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement
of floodwaters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 4, 1972.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRM. Flood insurance rate map.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map of the city on which FEMA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the city.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by FEMA for the city
which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood, as
well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. The physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the city subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by
the City Council to administer and implement laws, ordinances and regulations
relating to the management of floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOOD).
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A FLOODWAY is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
12-607. A FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the city’s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by the City Council and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the City Floodplain Board.
   OWRB. The State Water Resources Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before start of construction of the improvement. This includes
structures that have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual
repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the City Council to a person from the terms
of this chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
A VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner
otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full requirements, see 44 C.F.R. §
60.6.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
ARTICLE C. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§12-606 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-607 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for Stephens County,
Oklahoma and Incorporated Areas” dated September 29, 2010, with the
accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM) are hereby adopted on September
29, 2010, by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-608 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-609 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-610 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-611 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-612 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
ARTICLE D. ADMINISTRATION
§12-613 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council designates the City Manager to select his or her designee
as Floodplain Administrator and Alternate Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of National Flood Insurance Program regulations in 44 C.F.R.
pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-614 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1618, as amended;
   (B)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed building
sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter;
   (D)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from
which prior approval are required;
   (E)   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions);
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the FEMA;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   Shall require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the
base flood elevation on a FEMA elevation certificate as well as other data as
required in order to administer the provisions of Article E of this chapter;
   (I)   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator
must require that no new construction, substantial improvements or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE as delineated on
the county FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the city;
   (J)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the city, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement;
   (K)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a decision
of the City Council; and
   (L)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-615 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood-proofed; and
      (3)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   In addition to the information required herein, the Floodplain
Administrator may require engineering, hydrologic or other information and
studies sufficient to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator or Board of Adjustment, as applicable,
may approve certain development in Zones A or AE delineated on the county FIRM
which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one
foot, provided that the applicant for the development permit in that case first
complies with 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-616 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment of the city may grant variances for uses
which do not satisfy the requirements of the State Floodplain Management Act,
being O.S. §§ 1601 et seq., or this chapter, if the applicant for the variance
presents adequate proof that compliance with this chapter will result in an
arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or
advantage to the people and satisfies the pertinent provisions of this article.
However, no variance shall be granted where the effect of the variance will be
to permit the continuance of a condition which unreasonably creates flooding
hazards.
      (2)   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the State Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
      (3)   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than 20
years.
      (4)   Any person seeking a variance shall file an appeal in accordance
with §
12-126.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
12-615(C) and provisions of this section have been fully considered. As the lot
size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      (6)   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Chairperson of the Board
of Adjustment which states that:
         (a)   The cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than
the base flood elevation; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
      (7)   At such time as the Board of Adjustment deems the petition ready
for notification to the public, the Board of Adjustment shall schedule a
hearing and direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
      (8)   The Board of Adjustment shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this article.
The Board of Adjustment shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the equities
involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to the
public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
      (9)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         (d)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (10)   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the
intent of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to
the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in §
12-603.
      (11)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the Board of Adjustment shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within 15 days after issuance of the
variance.
   (B)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (3)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, provided that:
         (a)   The criteria of divisions (A)(5), (A)(9), (B)(2) and (B)(3)
above are met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
ARTICLE E. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§12-617 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding; and
   (H)   Any development within the scope of these regulations shall comply
with all conditions and plans as approved and contained within the development
permit.
      (1)   For developments requiring building permits, the development permit
shall be made a part thereof. Failure to comply with the development permit
shall constitute a violation of these regulations and the Building Code of the
city.
      (2)   For developments not requiring building permits, the development
permit issued hereunder shall govern. Failure to comply with the development
permit shall constitute a violation of these regulations and the Building Code
of the city.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-618 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) is
satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot
above the base flood elevation or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (B) is
satisfied.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed anywhere within
the city in Flood Zones A and/or AE on the county FIRM shall be installed using
methods and practices that minimize flood damage and have the bottom of the I-
beam elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation. For the
purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to a permanent foundation to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
      (2)   This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. The home shall be installed
by a licensed installer according to state law and compliance herewith shall be
certified in writing to the Floodplain Administrator by said installer prior to
habitation of the manufactured home.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A and AE on the county FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
12-615 and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured homes” in
division (D) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (F)   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A and AE on the county FIRM shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      (2)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      (3)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking or restroom use;
      (4)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE;
      (5)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
and constructed with flood resistant materials;
      (7)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
      (8)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      (9)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
      (10)   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-619 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
Zones A and AE which is greater than one acre in size shall generate the base
flood elevation data for that subdivision. In addition, improvement plans and
preliminary plats for any such subdivision shall include the following:
      (1)   Limits of the base flood;
      (2)   Limits of the floodway, if any;
      (3)   Pad elevations required for each lot to provide a lowest floor
elevation at least one foot above the base flood;
      (4)   Certification that development will not increase upstream or
downstream flood elevations in excess of one foot, assuming development on both
sides of the stream;
      (5)   Drainage calculations, channel sections and other data used in
identification of special flood hazard area limits and the limits of the
floodway, if any; and
      (6)   Design calculations for channel improvements, if proposed.
   (B)   Final plats for subdivisions within or adjacent to areas of special
flood hazard shall provide:
      (1)   Dedication for drainage, public recreation and utility purposes of
all lands within a floodway and where determined necessary such additional
lands as may be required to provide for maintenance thereof;
      (2)   Indication of the extent of the areas of special flood hazard
within the subdivision; and
      (3)   Pad elevation requirements sufficient to assure a lowest floor
elevation of not less than one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (C)   Where necessary the Planning Commission, upon the recommendation of
the Administrator, may require grading, backsloping, cribbing, sodding or other
improvements to the floodway or flood fringe to facilitate flood flow and ease
of maintenance of the floodway upon dedication to the city.
   (D)   Where no floodway has been designated within the area of special flood
hazard, the subdivision shall provide and improve drainage rights-of-way of
sufficient width and capacity to accommodate the base flood without increasing
the elevation thereof more than one foot assuming fill of adjacent lands to the
elevation of the base flood.
   (E)   All subdivisions shall identify those lots or portions thereof which
shall remain below the level of the base flood in private or restrictive
covenants or by flood flowage easements in order to provide notice of special
elevation and development permit requirements to purchasers of the properties
in question.
   (F)   All subdivisions, including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   (G)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-620 OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions of this chapter, new construction,
developments and subdivisions shall comply with other applicable regulations
adopted by the city, including, but not limited to, subdivision regulations,
zoning regulations, building and related codes and drainage or earth change
ordinances.
   (B)   In the case of conflict between this chapter and other regulations the
most restrictive or stringent requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-621 FLOODWAYS.
   The following provisions shall apply to floodways.
   (A)   Encroachments, including, but not limited to, fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the city during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this article.
   (C)   The city may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
§12-622 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
ARTICLE F. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE
§12-623 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City Council establishes the following fee schedule not to exceed $500
for any one service:
 
Floodplain development permit application review $100
Floodplain development permit fee                $25
Inspection fee                                   $25 per inspection
Notice of intent fee                             $25 maximum
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
ARTICLE G. PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE
§12-624 PENALTIES.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be assessed a penalty as provided for by §
1-108. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or its City
Attorney from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 1781, passed 7-10-2018)
CHAPTER 7: MAJOR STREET PLAN
Section
   
12-701   Purpose
   
12-702   Title and relationship to general plan
   
12-703   Functional classification of streets
   
12-704   Major streets and collectors designated
   
12-705   Easement widths and design standards
   
12-706   Setback requirements for major streets
   
12-707   Exception to setback lines on certain major streets
   
12-708   General exceptions to setback requirements
   
12-709   Standards for ingress and egress structures
   
12-710   Appeals to Board of Adjustment
   
12-711   Administration
§12-701 PURPOSE.
   This plan for major streets is intended to promote the orderly development
and use of land within the existing and future urban area; to eliminate
existing traffic congestion and facilitate the rapid, safe and efficient
movement of traffic and to make provision for anticipated future traffic needs;
and to permit the acquisition of right-of-way for major streets and highways in
a way that will affect maximum economy for the city and convenience and utility
for the private property owner.
§12-702 TITLE AND RELATIONSHIP TO GENERAL PLAN.
   This plan shall be designated as the major street plan and shall be a part
of the general plan for the city and the city’s metropolitan area.
§12-703 FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street located within a neighborhood or integrated use
area which collects traffic from minor streets and which forms the most direct
route to a major street or a community facility.
   EXPRESSWAY. An arterial route having an existing or potential traffic demand
which requires two or more lanes for moving traffic each direction, where
opposing traffic lanes are separated by traffic islands or medians and where
access is fully or partially controlled.
   LOCAL STREET. Any street classified as an expressway, primary thoroughfare
or secondary thoroughfare.
   MAJOR STREET. Any street classified as an expressway, primary thoroughfare
or secondary thoroughfare.
   MINOR STREET. Any street classified as a collector street or a local street.
   PRIMARY THOROUGHFARES. An arterial route where access is only partially
controlled where traffic loads do not justify the design of an expressway.
   SECONDARY THOROUGHFARES. An arterial route which is similar to the primary
thoroughfare, but with limitations of easement width and traffic load.
§12-704 MAJOR STREETS AND COLLECTORS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Major streets and collector streets shall be those which are
designated on the official major street plan map.
   (B)   The map and all explanatory material thereon is hereby made a part of
this plan and these regulations.
   (C)   In undeveloped areas the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission will
determine the classification of proposed streets in accordance with the
provisions of this plan and the “Standards and Regulations for the Subdivision
of Land of the Duncan Metropolitan Area Planning Commission.”
§12-705 EASEMENT WIDTHS AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The maximum easement width, which it shall be the developer’s
responsibility to provide, shall be as follows.
 
Collector  60 feet
Expressway Negotiated
Minor      50 feet
Primary    100 feet
Secondary  80 feet
   (B)   The design standards for major and minor streets should be in
accordance with the provisions contained in Figure 1 whenever it is deemed
feasible by the Planning Commission.
§12-706 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJOR STREETS.
   No building or structure shall be located within the setback lines herein
established, except as otherwise designated in these regulations. Setback lines
are hereby established parallel to and on both sides of the right-of-way of all
major streets in accordance with the following schedule, except as otherwise
designated in §
12-704.
   (A)   Collector street. On all collector streets, setback lines are hereby
established parallel to and a distance of 55 feet from the centerline thereof,
but not less than 25 feet from the outside edge of the easement line.
   (B)   Expressway. On all expressways, setback lines are hereby established
parallel to and distant 85 feet from the centerline of the easement, but not
less than 25 feet from the outside edge of the easement.
   (C)   Primary thoroughfare. On all primary thoroughfares, setback lines are
hereby established parallel to and distant 75 feet from the centerline thereof,
but not less than 25 feet from the outside edge of the easement.
   (D)   Secondary thoroughfare. On all secondary thoroughfares, setback lines
are hereby established parallel to and distant 65 feet from the centerline
thereof, but not less than 25 feet from the outside edge of the easement line.
§12-707 EXCEPTION TO SETBACK LINES ON CERTAIN MAJOR STREETS.
   Because certain streets, which have been designated as major streets, are
located in areas where properties adjacent to the right-of-way are partially or
fully developed with buildings and the pattern of land use is largely
determined, the regulations, as set forth in §
12-701 could not reasonably be applied. Therefore, setback lines are hereby
established and shall apply to the following designated major streets.
   (A)   Beech Avenue from the west right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 81 to a
point 575 feet west of the southeast corner of the southwest quarter of section
31, township 1 north, range 7 west shall have a setback line parallel to the
right-of-way distant 55 feet from the centerline, but in no case shall the line
be closer than 25 feet to the existing right-of-way line.
   (B)   Bois D’Arc Avenue from the east right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 81
to the west right-of-way of East Street shall have a setback line parallel to
the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the centerline, but in no case shall the
line be closer than 25 feet to the existing right-of-way line.
   (C)   C Street from the south right-of-way line of Main Street to the north
right-of-way line of Elm Avenue shall have a setback line parallel to the
centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the
centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (D)   Chestnut Avenue from the east right-of-way line of 6th Street to the
west right-of-way line of N Street shall have a setback line parallel to the
centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the
centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (E)   East Street shall have a setback line parallel to the centerline and
on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the centerline, but in
no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the existing right-of-way
line.
   (F)   Elder Avenue from the east right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 81 to the
west right-of-way line of 5th Street shall have a setback line parallel to the
centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the
centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (G)   Elk Avenue from the east right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 81 to the
west right-of-way line of 10th Street shall have a setback line parallel to the
centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the
centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (H)   5th Street from the north right-of-way line of Bois D’Arc Avenue to
the south right-of-way line of Elder Avenue shall have a setback line parallel
to the centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from
the centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (I)   Main Street from the west line of the U.S. Highway 81 to the south
line of East Elm Avenue shall have no setback line.
   (J)   Maple Avenue from the west line of 10th Street to the west line of 6th
Street shall have no setback line.
   (K)   N Street from the south right-of-way line of Chestnut Avenue to the
north right-of-way line of Willow Avenue shall have a setback line parallel to
the centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the
centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (L)   19th Street from the south right-of-way line of Spruce Avenue to the
north right-of-way line of Pine Avenue shall have a setback line parallel to
the centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the
centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (M)   Oak Avenue from the west line of 12th Street to the west line of 6th
Street shall have no setback line.
   (N)   Pine Avenue from the east right-of-way line of 19th Street to the west
right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 81 shall have a setback line parallel to the
centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the
centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (O)   2nd Street from the north right-of-way line of Willow Avenue to the
south right-of-way line of Main Street shall have a setback line parallel to
the centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from the
centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
   (P)   10th Street from the centerline of the alley between Oak Avenue and
Ash Avenue to the centerline of the alley between Maple Avenue and Elm Avenue
shall have no setback line.
   (Q)   10th Street from the centerline of the alley between Maple Avenue and
Elm Avenue south to the south line of Bois D’Arc Avenue shall have a setback
line parallel to the centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant
55 feet from the centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25
feet to the existing right-of-way line.
   (R)   10th Street from the centerline of the alley between Oak Avenue and
Ash Avenue north to the south line of Elk Avenue shall have a setback line
parallel to the centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55
feet from the centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet
to the existing right-of-way line.
   (S)   13th Street from the north right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 81 to the
south right-of-way line of Bois D’Arc Avenue shall have a setback line parallel
to the centerline and on both sides of the right-of-way distant 55 feet from
the centerline, but in no case shall the line be closer than 25 feet to the
existing right-of-way line.
§12-708 GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   No building or structure shall be erected or located within the setback
lines here established, except as follows.
   (A)   Advertising structures may be located within the setback lines herein
established for primary and secondary thoroughfares but shall not be located
closer than ten feet to the right-of-way line; provided, however, that such
structures and signs shall be located so as not to interfere with sight
distances subject to the determination of the building inspector.
   (B)   Service station gasoline pumps, including open canopies and roofs
covering the pumps and islands, may be located within the setback lines herein
established from primary and secondary thoroughfares but shall not be located
closer than ten feet to the right-of-way line.
   (C)   Setback lines shall not apply to public utility structures.
   (D)   Structures and facilities required for ingress and egress to private
property may be located within the setback line herein established subject to
the conditions and limitations contained herein.
§12-709 STANDARDS FOR INGRESS AND EGRESS STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Ingress and egress facilities shall be designed in accordance with the
“Driveway Standards for the City of Duncan, Oklahoma.” These standards shall be
interpreted and administered by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   Off-street parking spaces designed to be used by more than two
vehicles shall be arranged so that no vehicle will back directly from a parking
stall onto a major or minor street or highway. Divisional islands and curbs
shall be constructed where necessary to provide such protection.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987; Ord. 1394, passed 4-23-1996)
§12-710 APPEALS TO BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment as established by the zoning ordinance shall have
the power to modify or vary the building or setback regulations in specific
cases where the strict application of these regulations would constitute an
undue hardship and an unreasonable deprivation of the use of property, as
distinguished from the mere grant of privilege; provided, however, that any
modification or variation shall be consistent with and carry out the intended
purpose of these regulations.
§12-711 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the building
inspector with the advice and assistance of the City Engineer.
   (B)   No building, structure, sign, driveway, roadway or public utility line
or structure which is authorized by these regulations to be located within the
setback lines herein established shall be erected, moved, improved or located
therein until a building permit is obtained from the building inspector.
Whenever any structure, driveway, building, utility or other improvements, or
curb cut or structural alteration of a roadway surface is to be made, a permit
shall be obtained from the building inspector. The applicant shall furnish the
building inspector with the following information at the time a request for a
permit is made:
      (1)   Detailed plans of the proposed construction or change in roadway
surface; and
      (2)   The approval of the State Highway Department of plans of all
improvements or changes that are to be located in a setback line on a state or
federal highway.
   (C)   This section shall not be used to deprive or be construed as depriving
any person of the right of ingress or egress, but is to ensure that the type of
structures and roadways located within, or connecting with public streets and
highways are of such a design that they will not create undue congestion,
dangers or traffic hazards on or adjacent to the public streets.
CHAPTER 8: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
12-801   Definitions
   
12-802   License and temporary permit
   
12-803   License fees and temporary permits, posting
   
12-804   Inspection of mobile home and travel trailer parks
   
12-805   Notice, hearings and orders
   
12-806   Freestanding mobile homes; location
   
12-807   Nonresidential mobile trailers
   
12-808   Location, space and general layout of mobile home parks and travel
trailer parks
   
12-809   Service building for travel trailer parks
   
12-810   Sewage disposal for mobile home parks
   
12-811   Water supply for mobile home parks
   
12-812   Refuse disposal for mobile home parks
   
12-813   Insect and rodent control
   
12-814   Electricity; exterior lighting
   
12-815   Fuel piping
   
12-816   Park areas; water; fires
   
12-817   Alterations and additions
   
12-818   Registration of owners and occupants
   
12-819   Additional regulations
   
12-820   Wrecked or damaged homes, trailers
   
12-821   Mobile home subdivisions
   
12-822   Supervision
   
12-823   Penalty
§12-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower. For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a DEPENDENT
MOBILE HOME shall be considered to be the same as a travel trailer, unless
otherwise specified.
   FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER. Any mobile home or travel
trailer not located in a mobile home park or travel trailer park or in an
approved mobile home subdivision.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the city or his
or her authorized representative.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath
or shower. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of this chapter, the term
MOBILE HOME shall mean an independent mobile home.
   INSPECTION OFFICER. The building inspector of the city or his or her
authorized agent.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park
under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling consisting of one or more
components or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined
into one integral unit designed for towing or transport on streets and highways
on its own wheels, chassis or on flatbed or other trailers, both complete and
ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly
operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations, skirting, connection to
utilities and similar operations. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of
this chapter, the term MOBILE HOME shall refer to an INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME,
as defined in this section.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home and not located on a mobile home sales
lot.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively and where mobile home lots
are sold for occupancy.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer.
   PARK. A mobile home or travel trailer park.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain or
operate a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. Natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM OR PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. Any such system built and owned
by, or dedicated to and accepted by the city; all other systems are private.
   RURAL. Any area shown on the city area general plan for suburban or rural
development and which is zoned agriculturally.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities.
   SUBDIVISION. Mobile home subdivision, unless otherwise indicated.
   TRAILER PARK or TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground upon which one or
more travel trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   TRAVEL TRAILER or TRAILER. All vehicles and portable structures built on a
chassis, designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation use not included in the definition of independent mobile homes.
For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a dependent mobile home shall be
considered to be the same as a travel trailer, unless otherwise specified.
   TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer.
§12-802 LICENSE AND TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate any
mobile home park or travel trailer park within the city limits of the city
unless he or she holds a valid license issued annually by the City Clerk with
the approval of the inspection officer and health officer of the city, in the
name of such person for the specific mobile home park, except that the
maintenance or operation of a mobile home park or travel trailer park in
existence on the effective date of this chapter may be continued under a
temporary permit for such period of time and under such conditions as are
hereinafter described.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the inspection officer, who shall issue a
license upon compliance by the applicant with all pertinent provisions of this
and other ordinances and regulations of the city. Every person holding such a
license shall notify the City Clerk in writing within 24 hours after having
sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of, interest in or control
of the park, the name of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of
such mobile home park or travel trailer park.
   (C)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing signed by the
applicant and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the park;
      (3)   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the inspection
officer and/or health officer.
   (D)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by the
holder of the license and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued or the latest renewal granted; and
      (2)   Other information requested by the inspection officer or health
officer.
   (E)   A complete plan, as required by division (C)(3) above for the purpose
of obtaining a license to be issued, shall show:
      (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, locations and size of all mobile home spaces or travel
trailer spaces;
      (3)   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips and
recreational areas;
      (4)   The locations of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      (5)   The location and size of utility and treatment facilities; and
      (6)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the park.
   (F)   Whenever the health officer or inspection officer finds conditions
existing in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, he, she or they shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the
license was issued that, unless such conditions or practices be corrected
within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice, the license will be
suspended. At the end of such period, not to exceed 90 days, the inspection
officer or health officer shall reinspect such park, and if such conditions or
practices have not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the license and give
notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license was
issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease operation
of such park except as provided in § 12-805(E).
   (G)   Any person whose permit has been denied, suspended or who has received
notice from the inspection officer or health officer that his or her permit
will be suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the park are
corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
City Council, provided that when no petition for such hearing shall have been
filed within ten days following the day on which notice of suspension was
served, such license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the
expiration of such ten-day period.
   (H)   A temporary permit, upon written request therefor, shall be issued by
the City Clerk upon written approval of the inspection officer and health
officer for every mobile home park or travel trailer park in existence upon the
effective date of this chapter, permitting the park to be maintained and
operated during the period ending one year after the effective date of this
chapter, or December 31, 1970, without being subject to the provisions of this
chapter except such of the provisions as are made expressly applicable to
permittees.
   (I)   (1)   The term of the temporary permit may be extended, upon written
request, for not to exceed one additional period of up to one year if:
         (a)   The permittees shall have filed application for a license in
conformity with this chapter within 180 days after the end of the calendar
year;
         (b)   The park plans and specifications accompanying the application
for license comply with all the provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable ordinances and statutes; and
         (c)   The permittee has diligently endeavored to make the existing
park conform fully to the plans and specifications submitted with the
application but has failed to do so due to circumstances beyond his or her
control.
      (2)   If the city is satisfied with the application and the effort of the
permittee to conform the existing park to all provisions of this chapter, then
the temporary permit may be extended upon such terms and conditions and for
such time as may be deemed by the city to be reasonable and to effect a
compliance with this chapter within a reasonable time.
   (J)   Mobile home parks and travel trailer parks in existence upon the
effective date of this chapter, January 1, 1970, which have concrete pads
indicating the location of mobile home spaces or travel trailer spaces need not
comply with those sections of this chapter which would require the moving of
concrete pads. They must, however, comply with all other requirements in
accordance with divisions (H) and (I) above. In addition, any park expansion
shall be in full compliance with provisions of this chapter.
§12-803 LICENSE FEES AND TEMPORARY PERMITS, POSTING.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall charge and collect for each mobile home park or
travel trailer park an initial license or temporary permit fee in such sum as
set by the Council by motion or resolution. The initial license or temporary
permit shall expire one year from the date of issue, unless renewed upon such
conditions as the City Council may by ordinance direct.
   (B)   The license certificate or temporary permit shall be conspicuously
posted in the office of or on the premises of the mobile home park or the
travel trailer park at all times.
§12-804 INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   (A)   The inspection or health officers are hereby authorized and directed
to make inspections to determine the condition of mobile home and travel
trailer parks located within the city in order to perform their duty of
safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile home parks and of the
general public.
   (B)   The inspection officer and the health officer shall have the power to
inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the purposes of
inspecting and investigating conditions in relation to the enforcement of this
chapter or of regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   The inspection officer and the health officer shall have the power to
inspect any register containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants
using the park.
   (D)   It is the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner thereof
or his or her agent or employee access to any part of the mobile home park or
travel trailer park or his, her or their premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with this chapter or with any lawful regulations adopted thereunder,
or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
§12-805 NOTICE, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the inspection or health officer determines violations of
this chapter or pertinent laws or ordinances exist, he or she shall notify the
owner or his or her agent of the alleged violation. The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      (4)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, for the performance
of any act it requires; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require. The notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon owner or
agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his or her last
known address.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice issued under this chapter or
resulting regulation may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Mayor and City Council. Such person shall file with the inspection
officer or health officer a written request for such hearing and setting forth
briefly the grounds for such request within ten days after the notice was
served. When no request for such hearing shall have been filed within ten days
following the day on which notice was served, a violation shall be deemed to
have been automatically in existence at the expiration of the ten-day period.
The filing of the request shall not stay the notice in cases of orders issued
under this section. The hearing shall be held by the Board of Adjustment at the
earliest possible time.
   (C)   After the hearing, the inspection officer or health officer shall
compile the findings of the Board of Adjustment as to compliance with this
chapter and pursuant regulations and shall issue an order in writing
sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the prior notice which shall be served as
provided in this section. Appeals from decisions of the Board of Adjustment
shall be to the district court.
   (D)   Whenever the inspection officer or health officer finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health,
the inspection officer or health officer may, without notice or hearing, issue
an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring that such
action be taken as he or she may deem necessary to meet the emergency.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately but, upon petition to the City Council, shall be
afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has been
completed.
   (E)   Whenever the health officer in company of the inspection officer finds
conditions existing in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, the inspection officer shall give notice in writing to the
person to whom the license was issued, that unless such conditions or practices
be corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice, the
license will be suspended. At the end of such period, not to exceed 90 days,
the inspection officer or health officer shall reinspect such park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, the inspection officer shall
suspend the license and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person
to whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such
person shall cease operation of such park except as provided in division (B)
above.
§12-806 FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES; LOCATION.
   (A)   No freestanding mobile home or travel trailer shall be permitted in
the city limits unless it is being offered for sale or parked for storage in
accordance with the city’s zoning regulations except as provided in this
section.
   (B)   The Building Official may issue permits for freestanding mobile homes
on lots within the agricultural or residential zoning districts upon
application by the owner of the lot, or the holder of a valid purchase
contract, for the use and occupancy by the owner or members of his or her
immediate family under the following conditions.
      (1)   The applicant shall file an application for a permit on forms
provided by the Building Official, providing a plot plan showing the locations
of the proposed mobile home, lot dimensions, driveways and other existing or
proposed improvements.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a list of all property
owners within a 300-foot radius of any portion of the subject property
certified by an abstracter.
      (3)   The application shall be accompanied by a document showing consent
to the mobile home application by all adjacent property owners and by 80% of
the owners of all property within a 300-foot radius. Adjacent property includes
all property bordering the property described in the application even though
separated by a street, alley, easement, private road or other public way.
      (4)   The Building Official shall mail notice of the application to all
property owners identified in the list of property owners as certified by an
abstracter and shall allow ten days for response to the notice and be satisfied
that the document of consent is adequate. The Building Official shall provide
notice as herein required by first class mail, not more than three working days
after receipt of a complete application.
      (5)   Application for freestanding mobile homes shall be accompanied by
an application fee in such sum as set by the Council by motion or resolution.
   (C)   Upon finding that the requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied, the Building Official may issue a building permit in compliance with
all codes, ordinances and rules of the city. In addition, the permit shall
require the following.
      (1)   The mobile home shall be placed upon and permanently anchored with
cast in place concrete deadmen, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other
acceptable devices capable of sustaining 4,800 pounds of tension without
failure. Tie downs or anchors shall be located at each corner and approximately
one-fourth of the mobile home’s length from each corner. Frame and over the top
ties are required.
      (2)   Mobile homes which are not set on permanent foundations shall be
provided with skirting of the same or complementary materials as the exterior
of the mobile home.
      (3)   All required improvements shall be installed within 60 days of
placement of the mobile home.
   (D)   (1)   In instances where the Building Official is not authorized to
issue a permit for a freestanding mobile home or travel trailer, or shall find
deficiencies in an application and refuse a permit, the applicant may appeal to
the Board of Adjustment of the city. Upon filing of an appeal, the Building
Official shall transmit all application forms and attachments to the Board with
a statement as to the reason for his or her refusal to issue the permit.
      (2)   The Board shall have the authority to direct the issuance of a
permit in keeping with the spirit and intent of this chapter, following notice
and hearing as required by the Board for zoning ordinances.
§12-807 NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS.
   (A)   No nonresidential mobile trailer shall be permitted in the city unless
a license for its operation is issued by the inspection officer or health
officer. Such license shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential
mobile trailer, the location of such operation and the termination date of the
license. No license shall be issued for a use which would violate any city
ordinance or state or federal law or regulation.
   (B)   An annual fee as set by the Council shall be charged for each
nonresidential mobile trailer license, which shall expire on April 30 of each
year and be renewable on May 1 of each year thereafter.
   (C)   Operation of nonresidential trailers by contractors on construction
projects for which building permits have been issued or which are otherwise
approved by governmental units is permitted during the term of such
construction project without issuance of a permit.
   (D)   This section is not to be construed as permitting or authorizing the
permanent location of any nonresidential mobile trailer in the city.
§12-808 LOCATION, SPACE AND GENERAL LAYOUT OF MOBILE HOME PARKS AND TRAVEL
TRAILER PARKS.
   (A)   (1)   Parks shall be of three types:
         (a)   Mobile home parks;
         (b)   Travel trailer parks; and
         (c)   Mixed mobile home and travel trailer parks.
      (2)   No dependent travel trailer shall be located in a mobile home park
and used for occupancy. In a mixed park, separate areas shall be reserved for
mobile homes and for travel trailers; no mobile home shall be permitted in the
travel trailer sector, and no travel trailer shall be permitted in the mobile
home sector.
   (B)   All mobile home parks shall be located on a well drained site,
properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of
water; drainage shall not endanger any water supply.
   (C)   The minimum area of any park shall be three acres. However, parks in
existence on the effective date of this chapter, January 1, 1970, may continue
to operate with less than three acres, but if the park is to be expanded it
must at that time have a minimum area of three acres.
   (D)   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten mobile
homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than 15 travel trailers
per gross acre for a travel trailer park. Area used for sewerage treatment
facilities shall not be included in density computations. Mobile home spaces
shall be at least 30 feet wide where pads are closest to driveways. Travel
trailer spaces shall be at least 25 feet wide where travel trailers are located
closest to the driveway.
   (E)   Every mobile home space and travel trailer space shall be clearly
defined. Mobile homes and travel trailers shall be parked in such spaces that
at the nearest point they shall be 35 feet from the centerline of the service
road, ten feet from the rear lot line and at least 20 feet from any other
mobile home or travel trailer.
   (F)   It is unlawful to locate a mobile home or travel trailer less than 25
feet from any public street or highway right-of-way or so that any part of such
mobile home or travel trailer will obstruct any roadway or walkway of such
park.
   (G)   It is unlawful to permit a mobile home to occupy a travel trailer
space, a travel trailer to occupy a mobile home space and for any mobile home
or travel trailer to be located in a park unless in a designated mobile home
space or travel trailer space.
   (H)   All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a sealed surface driveway of
not less than 20 feet in width if on-street parking is prohibited, and 26 feet
in width if on-street parking is permitted on one side of the street only.
Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public street or highway.
   (I)   In mobile home parks or travel trailer parks existing at the effective
date of this chapter, January 1, 1970, parking on or adjacent to the street
within the park is permissible so long as it does not obstruct free movements
of traffic. Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be
determined by the Planning Commission. If upon final appeal to the City
Council, the City Council determines that a safety hazard does in fact exist,
the mobile home park or travel trailer park concerned will be required to
comply with division (J) below.
   (J)   In new mobile home parks, at least two clearly defined parking spaces
will be provided for each mobile home space either on or adjacent to the mobile
home space. In new travel trailer parks, at least one parking space shall be
provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space.
   (K)   Outside drying spaces or other clothes drying facilities shall be
provided in every mobile home park or travel trailer park.
   (L)   All driveways and walkways within a park shall be at least asphalt-
oil-rock sealed surface.
   (M)   In the city limits area, new mobile home parks should abut, and have
their major means of ingress and egress on at least a secondary thoroughfare.
Travel trailer parks and mixed parks in the city limits area should abut and
have their major means of ingress and egress on at least a primary
thoroughfare.
   (N)   All mobile home parks shall provide a suitable screening of
landscaping, and also opaque fencing shall be installed where abutting existing
single-family residential areas.
§12-809 SERVICE BUILDING FOR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   (A)   Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at least one service
building adequately equipped with flush type toilet fixtures and other sanitary
facilities as required in this chapter. All sanitary facilities required by
this code shall be located in service buildings.
   (B)   Each park accommodating travel trailers shall provide the following.
      (1)   Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets and one urinal for the first ten travel trailers or fraction
thereof, and for travel trailers in excess of ten, not less than one additional
flush toilet and one additional urinal for every ten additional travel trailers
or fractional number thereof.
      (2)   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets for the first six travel trailer spaces or any less number
thereof, and for travel trailer spaces in excess of six, not less than one
additional flush toilet for every ten additional travel trailer spaces or
fractional number thereof in excess of six.
      (3)   Each sex shall be provided with not less than two lavatories and
two showers or bathtubs with individual dressing accommodations for the first
ten travel trailer spaces or any less number thereof, and for travel trailer
spaces in excess of ten, not less than one additional lavatory and one
additional shower or bathtub with individual dressing accommodations for every
ten additional travel trailer spaces or fractional number thereof.
      (4)   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private compartment or stall.
      (5)   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
      (6)   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not less
than one flush toilet bowl receptacle for emptying bedpans and other containers
of human excreta or a slop sink with at least a three-inch trap and an adequate
supply of hot running water for cleansing such bedpans or containers.
   (C)   Travel trailer spaces shall not be more than 200 feet from a service
building.
   (D)   Service buildings shall:
      (1)   Be located 25 feet or more from any travel trailer space;
      (2)   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
      (3)   Be of moisture resistant material, to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      (4)   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of 70°F
during cold weather, and to supply adequate hot water during time of peak
demands; and
      (5)   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened.
   (E)   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one laundry unit
to every 30 travel trailer spaces and shall be in a separate soundproof room of
a service building or in a separate building. A laundry shall consist of not
less than one clothes washing machine and one clothes drying machine.
   (F)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that will menace
the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a menace.
§12-810 SEWAGE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop
sinks and laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall be
discharged into a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system or
private sewer and lagoon system of such construction and in such manner as
approved by the State Department of Health and in accordance with all
applicable ordinances of the city.
   (B)   (1)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a four-
inch sewer connection at least four inches above the surface of the ground. The
sewer connection should be protected by a concrete collar of at least four
inches thick and have a minimum outside diameter of 24 inches.
      (2)   The sewer connection shall be fitted with a standard ferrule and
close nipple and provided with a screw cap. Connection between the mobile home
drain and the sewer must be watertight and self-draining. Mobile homes with
fixtures from which back siphonage may occur shall not be connected to the
park’s water system until the defect has been corrected.
   (C)   In the event that a public sewer system is or becomes available within
300 feet of a mobile home park or travel trailer park, connection must be made
to the public system within 180 days.
   (D)   (1)   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based
on the maximum capacity of the park. Effluents from sewage treatment facilities
shall not be discharged into any watershed. The disposal facilities shall be
located where they will not create a nuisance or health hazard to the mobile
home park or to the owner or occupants of any adjacent property.
      (2)   The State Department of Health must approve the type of treatment
proposed and the design of any disposal facilities and sewer systems prior to
construction.
   (E)   Every mobile home occupying a mobile home park space shall tie into
the park sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated waste into the system.
Every dependent trailer shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle
provided in the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park.
Such receptacles must be approved by the State Department of Health. Any other
dump of accumulated waste within the city is prohibited.
   (F)   (1)   The monthly sewerage charge shall be based on the maximum mobile
home or travel trailer capacity of the park. The park operator shall, by the
tenth of each month, notify the City Clerk of the city’s utility office of the
maximum number of mobile home spaces in use at any one time during the previous
month.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall then adjust the sewerage fee to the actual use
of the park. Should the park operator fail to notify the City Clerk of the
prior month’s actual usage of trailer or mobile home spaces, the sewerage fee
shall be levied on the maximum capacity of the park.
   (G)   Sewer connections shall be watertight. Park licensees shall maintain
trailer and mobile home connections to sewer and water systems in good
condition and be responsible that there is no sewerage or water leakage on the
park premises.
§12-811 WATER SUPPLY FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 250 gallons per day
per mobile home space. Where a public supply of water of such quality is
available within 300 feet or becomes available within 300 feet, connection
shall be made thereto within 180 days, and its supply shall be used
exclusively. Where private water supplies must be developed, the health officer
must approve the location, construction and development of both the water well
and pipe system and connections. No private source other than a water well
shall be used.
   (B)   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by pipes
to all buildings and mobile home spaces. Each mobile home shall be provided
with a cold water tap at least four inches above the ground. An adequate supply
of hot water shall be provided at all times in the service buildings for all
bathing, washing, cleansing and laundry facilities.
   (C)   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with state and local law; the water piping system shall not be connected with
nonpotable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back siphonage. All water connections shall be
weathertight.
   (D)   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of
a type and in locations approved by the health officer.
   (E)   Individual water service connections which are provided for direct use
by mobile homes or travel trailers shall be of such construction so that they
will not be damaged by the parking of such mobile homes or travel trailers. The
park system shall be adequate to provide 20 pounds per square inch of pressure
at all mobile home or travel trailer connections.
   (F)   Provisions shall be made within 150 feet of such travel trailer space
to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs.
   (G)   No well casing, pumps, pumping machinery or suction pipes shall be
located in any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room
or space aboveground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless such
rooms, whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the
surface. All floors shall be watertight and sloped from the pump pedestal to
the drain, and floors shall extend at least two feet from the well in all
directions. The pedestal shall not be less than 12 inches above the floor. This
shall not be construed as prohibiting submersible pumps.
   (H)   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and constructed of
impervious material; all overflow and vents of such reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers so as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any
pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
   (I)   Underground stop and waste cocks shall not be installed on any
connections.
   (J)   No water well shall draw water from any sands reserved to the city for
its use except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the city.
§12-812 REFUSE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so
managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproof
containers, which shall be located within 150 feet of any mobile home space or
travel trailer space. Containers shall be so provided in sufficient numbers and
capacity to properly store all refuse.
   (C)   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from
being tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently connected to
racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
   (D)   All refuse shall be collected at least twice weekly and as otherwise
required by the health officer. Where municipal garbage collection is not
available, the mobile home park operator shall either employ a private agency
or provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in
covered vehicles or covered containers.
   (E)   (1)   Where municipal or other private disposal service is not
available, the mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by burial,
or transporting to an approved disposal site, as directed by the health
officer.
      (2)   Refuse shall be buried only at locations and by methods approved by
the inspection officer and in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
   (F)   When municipal refuse disposal service is available, it must be used.
§12-813 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health as
required by the inspection officer or health officer shall be applied in the
mobile home park or travel trailer park.
   (B)   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the inspection
officer or health officer for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot be
controlled by other, more permanent measures.
   (C)   The inspection officer or health officer may require the park operator
to take suitable measures to control other insects and obnoxious weeds.
   (D)   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be permitted in the mobile home park.
   (E)   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the park,
the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the inspection
officer or health officer to exterminate them.
§12-814 ELECTRICITY; EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   (1)   An electrical outlet supplying at least 100 amperes shall be
provided for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all
applicable state and local electrical codes and ordinances.
      (2)   Such electrical outlets and extension lines shall be grounded and
weatherproofed. Plug receptacles shall also be grounded and weatherproofed.
      (3)   No power supply line shall be permitted to lay on the ground, and
no main power line shall be suspended less than 18 feet above the ground,
unless otherwise approved by the inspection officer.
   (B)   Streets and driveways within mobile home and travel trailer parks
shall be lighted with streetlights meeting the current standards of the
Illuminating Engineering Society or one-half candlepower, whichever is higher.
§12-815 FUEL PIPING.
   (A)   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be of acceptable material as determined by the inspection officer
and shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.
   (B)   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in
place and shall not be located inside or beneath the mobile home or less than
five feet from any mobile home exit.
§12-816 PARK AREAS; WATER; FIRES.
   (A)   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable
materials.
   (B)   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking and/or heating
equipment intended for such purposes.
§12-817 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall
be made in accordance with the applicable regulations of the city.
   (B)   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible but areas enclosed by such
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   (C)   A permit issued by the inspection officer shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a mobile home takes place. No construction or addition or
alteration to the exterior of a mobile home located in a mobile home park shall
be permitted unless of the same type of construction or materials as the mobile
home affected. All such construction, additions or alterations shall be in
compliance with applicable local and state laws. No permit shall be required
for the addition of steps, canopies, awning or antennas.
   (D)   No structure other than a mobile home shall be permitted on a mobile
home space except that one structure of not to exceed 175 cubic feet to be used
for storage on each space.
§12-818 REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Each licensee or permittee shall keep a register containing a record
of all mobile home and travel trailer owners and occupants located within the
park. The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each mobile home
and motor vehicle by which it is towed;
      (2)   The make, model, year and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle;
      (3)   The state, territory or country issuing such license;
      (4)   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home;
      (5)   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent
mobile home; and
      (6)   Each mobile home or travel trailer shall be identified while in a
park space by some clear, legible and orderly external method of identification
or numbering system.
   (B)   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by law enforcement officers, public health officials, city officials and other
officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in
the register. The register record of each occupant registered shall not be
destroyed for a period of one year following the date of departure of the
registrant from the park.
§12-819 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, each mobile home,
whether freestanding or located in a mobile home park or subdivision, shall
have over the top tie downs and frame tie downs to provide protection from high
winds in accordance with the regulations as adopted by the city.
§12-820 WRECKED OR DAMAGED HOMES, TRAILERS.
   Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and travel trailers shall not
be kept or stored in a mobile home park or travel trailer park. The health
officer shall determine if a mobile home or travel trailer is damaged or
dilapidated to a point which makes the mobile home or travel trailer unfit for
human occupancy on either a temporary or permanent basis. Whenever such a
determination is made, the mobile home or travel trailer shall be vacated and
removed from the premises.
§12-821 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The minimum size of mobile home subdivision shall be ten acres.
   (B)   No residences except mobile homes shall be permitted in a mobile home
subdivision.
   (C)   Minimum effective lot width in a mobile home subdivision shall be 50
feet measured at the front building line and minimum lot areas shall be 4,000
square feet, provided that at least a five-foot side yard shall be provided on
each lot beyond any mobile home and additions thereto, and further provided
that in areas not serviced by a public sewer, the minimum additional lot area
shall be determined by the health officer on the basis of safe and sanitary
sewer service. The effective lot width of a mobile home shall be determined,
for interior lots, by measuring at right angles across the lot from one
diagonal side line to the other, and for corner lots, the measurements shall be
made at right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from
perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the
required front yard, to the opposite lot line or an extension thereof.
   (D)   Side lines of lots in mobile home subdivisions need not be at right
angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (E)   Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile home subdivision lots
must abut a public street for at least 25 feet.
   (F)   All mobile home subdivisions shall provide suitable screening where
abutting single-family residential areas.
   (G)   Mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the subdivision ordinance
and zoning ordinances of the city except where otherwise provided.
§12-822 SUPERVISION.
   The licensee or permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker,
shall be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its facilities
and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee, for the
violation of any provision of this chapter to which the licensee or permittee
is subject.
§12-823 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be punished as provided in § 1-108.
CHAPTER 9: UTILITY EXTENSION PARTICIPATION POLICIES
Section
Article A. Major Sanitary Sewer Extensions
   
12-901   Purpose
   
12-902   Application
   
12-903   Extent of participation
   
12-904   Request for participation
   
12-905   Report of the manager
   
12-906   Council/Authority action
   
12-907   Contract for participation
   
12-908   Alternative participation
Article B. Major Water Main Extensions
   
12-909   Purpose
   
12-910   Application
   
12-911   Extent of participation
   
12-912   Request for participation
   
12-913   Report of the manager
   
12-914   Council/Authority action
   
12-915   Contract for participation
   
12-916   Alternative participation
Article C. Minor Utility Extensions
   
12-917   Purpose
   
12-918   Application
   
12-919   Request for minor extension
   
12-920   Report of the manager
   
12-921   Request to proceed
   
12-922   Hearing and approval of participation
   
12-923   Determination of costs and benefit
   
12-924   Minimum participation
   
12-925   Excess participation
   
12-926   Tap fees
   
12-927   Disbursement of tap fees
Article D. Major Water Main/Sanitary Sewer Main Extension Reimbursement Policy
   
12-928   Purpose and scope
   
12-929   Reimbursement of costs
   
12-930   Major water main extension reimbursement
   
12-931   Major sanitary sewer main extension reimbursement
   
12-932   Administration
ARTICLE A. MAJOR SANITARY SEWER EXTENSIONS
§12-901 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these provisions to assure that sanitary sewer
facilities are adequately designed to serve the needs of the community and to
provide an appropriate distribution of costs for the installation thereof.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-902 APPLICATION.
   (A)   When a sanitary sewer improvement is required to provide excess
capacity, in accordance with the provisions of §
12-521, the city/Authority may participate in the construction of the facility.
Such participation shall be limited to costs directly attributable to the
required excess capacity.
   (B)   In no instance shall this participation apply to improvements
necessary to meet minimum design criteria of the city/Authority or State
Department of Health.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-903 EXTENT OF PARTICIPATION.
   City/Authority participation in major sanitary sewer facilities providing
excess capacity shall be the lesser of:
   (A)   Fifty percent of the construction costs of the facility; or
   (B)   An amount equal to the percentage of facility capacity represented by
the required excess capacity, as prescribed below:
      (1)   Gravity flow facilities.
         (a)   Excess capacity shall be equal to the additional facility
diameter required to provide excess capacity divided by the total diameter of
the facility.
         (b)   Example: An increase from an eight-inch diameter to a 12-inch
diameter would be eligible for participation in 33% of the actual construction
costs.
      (2)   Force mains and lift stations. Excess capacity of force mains and
lift stations shall be equal to the additional lift station capacity required
to provide excess capacity divided by total lift station capacity.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-904 REQUEST FOR PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Parties desiring city participation in major sanitary sewer extensions
shall submit a written request for such participation to the manager.
   (B)   The request shall include a preliminary engineering report indicating:
      (1)   The approximate alignment and size of sanitary sewer facilities
necessary to serve the applicant’s property or development;
      (2)   The alignment and size of sanitary sewer facilities providing
excess capacity; and
      (3)   Summary of estimated quantities and costs for construction of the
required excess capacity facility.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-905 REPORT OF THE MANAGER.
   (A)   The manager shall cause a report and recommendations on such request
to be prepared for the consideration of the Council/Authority.
   (B)   Such report shall indicate the basis for the requirement of excess
capacity and the estimated cost of city participation and the availability of
funds for such costs.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-906 COUNCIL/AUTHORITY ACTION.
   (A)   Should the Council/Authority approve participation in the excess
capacity sanitary sewer facility, the applicant shall be notified to proceed
with preparation of plans, specifications and bid documents for such extension.
   (B)   Should the Council/Authority deny the request for participation, the
applicant shall be advised to proceed with the design of sanitary sewer
improvements necessary to meet minimum service requirements of the applicant’s
property or development.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-907 CONTRACT FOR PARTICIPATION.
   Approval of participation in an excess capacity facility shall be by
contract between the city/Authority and the applicant. This contract shall
prescribe, at a minimum:
   (A)   The basis and extent of city/Authority participation in the
construction of the facility;
   (B)   The applicant shall secure the design of the sanitary sewer extension
in accordance with local and state requirements;
   (C)   Participation is subject to submission and approval of plans,
specifications and bid documents by the city/Authority and the State Department
of Health;
   (D)   The applicant shall secure all easements and permits necessary for
construction of the facility in the name of the city;
   (E)   Construction contracts shall be awarded by the city/Authority in
accordance with applicable competitive bidding provisions of state statutes,
unless otherwise agreed in accordance with §
12-908; and
   (F)   Notice to proceed with construction will not be issued prior to
deposit with the city/Authority of the applicant’s portion of construction
costs.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-908 ALTERNATIVE PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Where the applicant for excess capacity facility participation
proposes construction in conjunction with additional facilities necessary to
serve the applicant’s property or development, the contract for participation
may provide that city/Authority participation may be limited to the provision
of materials.
   (B)   In such instance, the contract shall provide that the applicant shall
secure the construction of the excess capacity facility, in accordance with
approved plans and specifications, upon city/Authority provision of materials
in accordance with an itemized bill of materials which shall be an exhibit
attached to the contract for participation.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
ARTICLE B. MAJOR WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS
§12-909 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these provisions to assure that public water main
facilities are adequately designed to serve the needs of the community and to
provide an appropriate distribution of costs for the installation thereof.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-910 APPLICATION.
   When a public water main extension is required to provide excess capacity,
in accordance with the provisions of §§
12-532 and
12-533, the city/Authority may participate in the installation of such facility
in accordance with the following provisions. These provisions shall apply only
to major trunk lines as defined in §
12-533.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-911 EXTENT OF PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   The city/Authority may participate in the installation of major trunk
line extensions to the extent of the difference in cost between the materials
required to install an eight-inch diameter main and the large main required. In
addition, the city/Authority may direct that the construction of the major
trunk line be performed by city/Authority personnel.
   (B)   In the instance that a major trunk line extension requires work which
cannot be performed with city/Authority personnel and equipment, the city/
Authority shall bear not more than half of the contract cost for such work.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-912 REQUEST FOR PARTICIPATION.
   Parties desiring city participation in major trunk line extensions shall
submit a written request for such participation to the manager. The request
shall include a preliminary engineering report indicating:
   (A)   The approximate alignment of the proposed trunk line extension; and
   (B)   Summary of estimated quantities of materials necessary for the
construction of the proposed trunk line facilities.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-913 REPORT OF THE MANAGER.
   (A)   (1)   The manager shall cause a report and recommendations on such
request to be prepared for the consideration of the Council/Authority.
      (2)   Such report shall include an itemization of material costs for the
proposed major trunk line extension and the cost of equivalent materials for an
eight-inch diameter main.
   (B)   The report of the manager shall also indicate:
      (1)   The capacity of the city/Authority to install the proposed
extension;
      (2)   The estimated time required to perform such installation; and
      (3)   Whether the proposed extension would require contract services for
any work which cannot be performed with existing personnel and equipment.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-914 COUNCIL/AUTHORITY ACTION.
   (A)   Should the Council/Authority approve participation in the major trunk
line extension, the applicant shall be notified to proceed with preparation of
plans and specifications for such extension.
   (B)   Should request for participation be denied the applicant shall be
advised to proceed with the design of the extension in sufficient size to serve
the needs of the applicant, provided that the minimum size for such facility
shall be eight inches in diameter.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-915 CONTRACT FOR PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Approval of participation in a major trunk line extension shall be by
contract between the city/Authority and the applicant.
   (B)   This contract shall prescribe, at a minimum:
      (1)   The basis and extent of city/Authority participation in the
construction of the facility;
      (2)   The basis and extent of applicant participation in the construction
of the facility, including any additional costs for contract services required
to accomplish construction of the facility;
      (3)   The applicant shall secure the design of the major trunk line
extension in accordance with local and state requirements;
      (4)   Participation is subject to submission and approval of plans,
specifications by the city/Authority and the State Department of Health;
      (5)   The applicant shall secure all easements and permits necessary for
construction of the facility in the name of the city;
      (6)   Construction shall be performed by the city/Authority unless
otherwise agreed in accordance with §
12-916; and
      (7)   Construction will not begin until the applicant deposits with the
city/Authority an amount equal to the cost of materials for an equivalent water
main extension of eight inches in diameter, based upon the latest city/
Authority materials cost.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-916 ALTERNATIVE PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Where the applicant for major trunk extension participation proposes
construction of the facility in conjunction with additional improvements
necessary to serve the applicant’s property or development, the contract for
participation may provide that city/Authority participation be limited to the
provision of materials.
   (B)   In such instance, the contract shall provide that the applicant shall
secure the construction of the facility, in accordance with approved plans and
specifications, upon city/Authority provision of materials in accordance with
an itemized bill of materials which shall be an exhibit attached to the
contract for participation.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
ARTICLE C. MINOR UTILITY EXTENSIONS
§12-917 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the following provisions to assist owners of property
in predominantly developed neighborhoods with inadequate public facilities.
These policies shall be available as an alternative to the establishment of
improvement assessment districts in accordance with statutory provisions.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-918 APPLICATION.
   Owners of properties in predominantly developed areas which are not served
by adequate public water or sanitary sewage systems may request the city/
Authority to assist in extension of such utilities. Minor extensions under
these provisions shall generally be of less than 1,000 feet in length and shall
not include extensions required as a condition of subdivision plat approval.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-919 REQUEST FOR MINOR EXTENSION.
   Property owners seeking minor utility extensions shall submit a request for
such extension to the manager. The request shall indicate the nature of utility
extension and the description of the properties for which such services are
requested.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-920 REPORT OF THE MANAGER.
   (A)   The manager shall cause a preliminary evaluation of the request and an
estimate of costs to be prepared. This evaluation shall include:
      (1)   An estimate of the costs attributable to each property benefiting
from such extension in accordance with the provisions of this section;
      (2)   The approximate cost of engineering and construction permitting
through the State Department of Health; and
      (3)   The availability and ability of the city/Authority to secure the
construction of the facility with current personnel and equipment.
   (B)   The preliminary report of the manager shall be provided to the parties
requesting the extension and the Council/Authority.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-921 REQUEST TO PROCEED.
   (A)   Further action of the city/Authority shall await a request to proceed
from one or more benefiting property owners.
   (B)   Such request shall indicate that the benefiting property owners agree
to pay the costs of such extension in accordance with the provisions below.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-922 HEARING AND APPROVAL OF PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receipt of a request to proceed, the manager shall cause
the request to be placed before the Council/Authority for hearing.
      (2)   Notice of hearing shall be provided to the owners of all properties
within the area of benefit by first class mail not less than 15 days prior to
such hearing.
   (B)   The Council/Authority hearing shall present the proposed extension and
information regarding the proportional benefit attributed to benefiting
properties.
   (C)   Following the hearing, the Council/Authority may approve or deny
proceeding with the requested minor extension, or direct further consideration
or amendment of the request.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-923 DETERMINATION OF COSTS AND BENEFIT.
   (A)   Property owners seeking minor utility extensions shall agree to pay
the costs thereof in proportion to the benefits to be derived therefrom.
   (B)   The proportional benefit shall be determined by the following formula:
proportional benefit equals lot area multiplied by the cost of extension
divided by area of benefit.
   (C)   For the purpose of the formula in division (B) above, COST OF
EXTENSION shall be twice the materials cost, where construction is performed by
the city/Authority, or the actual cost of construction performed by contract;
and
   (D)   For the purpose of the formula in division (B) above, AREA OF BENEFIT
shall be the combined area of all properties which may tap the extension
without further extensions of public facilities, unless otherwise approved by
the city/Authority.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-924 MINIMUM PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Property owners participating in the extension shall be required to
pay an amount not less than their proportional benefit, in accordance with a
roll approved by the Council/Authority.
   (B)   Where construction is performed by the city/Authority and more than
one property will benefit from the minor extension, it shall be required that
not less than one-half of the cost of extension be deposited with the city/
Authority.
   (C)   Where construction is performed by contract, it shall be required that
an amount equal to the contract cost be deposited with the city/Authority prior
to award of the contract.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-925 EXCESS PARTICIPATION.
   In the event that one or more parties deposits an amount above their
proportional benefit, in order to secure adequate participation, they or their
heirs shall be eligible for reimbursement of such excess costs. Such
reimbursements shall be paid on an annual basis, for a period of not more than
ten years, from tap fees as established in §
12-926.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-926 TAP FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The city/Authority shall maintain a record of all minor utility
extensions constructed hereunder for a period of ten years from the date of
completion of the facility.
      (2)   This record shall indicate the description, ownership and
participation of all benefiting properties, as approved by the Council/
Authority. The amount of any excess participation on the part of any benefiting
party shall also be indicated.
   (B)   (1)   A benefiting property, the owner of which did not participate in
the extension, shall be assessed a fee equal to 125% of its proportional
benefit prior to being permitted to obtain services from the extension.
      (2)   This fee shall be assessed during the ten-year record period
established above. In the event that nonparticipating property has been
subdivided, the assessment shall be calculated based upon the proportional
benefit of the divided property.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
§12-927 DISBURSEMENT OF TAP FEES.
   (A)   Where one or more parties has contributed to the extension in amounts
above their proportional benefit, such parties shall be reimbursed from tap fee
assessments in proportion to their excess contributions.
   (B)   Upon reimbursement of any excess contributions, all subsequent
assessments shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city’s Public
Utilities Authority.
(Ord. 1354, passed 8-9-1994)
ARTICLE D. MAJOR WATER MAIN/SANITARY SEWER MAIN EXTENSION REIMBURSEMENT POLICY
§12-928 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   It is the intent of this article to provide the city’s Public Utilities
Authority (DPUA) or a developer/owner of a tract inside the city who has paid
all costs of an extension of a major water main completed in compliance with §
12-532(A) and/or the extension of a major sanitary sewer main completed in
compliance with §
12-521(A), which main is located so as to render it possible for tracts of land
not owned by said developer/owner to be served by said water or sewer main, the
ability to allow for recovering a portion of the costs of said water or sewer
main extension.
(Ord. 1611, passed 10-25-2005)
§12-929 REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   All eligible costs for extension of major water mains or major
sanitary sewer mains shall be recoverable by the DPUA, owner/developer or both,
as appropriate. Eligible costs include the total improvement costs of the
extension, including all, but not limited to, right-of-way/easement costs where
not otherwise prohibited by law (both temporary and permanent) and costs for
engineering, surveying, utility adjustments or relocation, excavation,
backfill, subgrade preparation, pavement repair, utility main construction and
other amenities, as might be required, plus 2% of the total of all above costs
as an administrative fee to the DPUA. Any of the above items paid for by
general obligation bonds or funds from any other governmental entity that are
not subject to repayment by the DPUA shall be deducted in determining the total
improvement costs, except for right-of-way costs.
   (B)   The developer/owner shall have no right or claim to any portion of the
revenue received by the DPUA for connection charges, service charges or usage
charges; the reimbursement to the developer/owner shall be specifically limited
to contribution by the developer/owner under division (A) above. Reimbursement
to the DPUA and/or developer/owner shall be as determined by the reimbursement
schedule as defined hereinafter.
(Ord. 1611, passed 10-25-2005)
§12-930 MAJOR WATER MAIN EXTENSION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   After completion of the major water main extension, the DPUA will
require any person, firm or corporation requesting a new water service
connection within the defined service area of the major water main to pay to
the developer/owner a pro rata portion of the original investment of the
developer/owner in the major water main, together with interest thereon from
the date of completion of the major water main at a rate not to exceed 6% per
annum, such pro rata portion to be calculated on a square footage basis of the
total defined service area of such major water main. The total service area of
such major water main shall consist of that area adjacent to the major water
main which lies nearer to said major water main than any other major water main
as planned by the DPUA and shall be defined by a registered professional
engineer and shall be as agreed upon by the developer/owner and the DPUA at the
time of the execution of the reimbursement schedule. No area shall be included
within the defined service area of more than one reimbursement schedule.
   (B)   Each tract of property identified in division (A) above shall be
subject to the total major water main extension cost participation expense
equal to such tract’s pro rata share, any applicable right-of-way costs and
inflation/deflation adjustment. Calculation of the costs for each individual
tract shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   Pro rata share.
 
(b + c) x (d/a)
a = Total service area in square feet
b = Total improvement costs (not to include repairs, retests, replacement or
    other expenses to correct faulty workmanship or materials)
c = Total right-of-way costs
d = Individual benefiting tract in square feet
      (2)   Right-of-way cost. Actual cost paid for acquisition of right-of-
way/utility easement from subject tract, including appraisal fees, attorneys’
fees, court costs and filing fees.
      (3)   Inflation/deflation adjustment. Adjustment of divisions (B)(1) and
(B)(2) above using an inflation factor calculated using the engineering news
record construction cost index. The inflation factor shall be a percentage
increase applied to divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above that adjusts the amount
due for these costs. The initial inflation factor will be calculated by
dividing the January 2000 value by the January 1990 value. To account for the
actual time between adoption of the resolution and repayment of the obligation,
the resulting increase will be divided by ten and multiplied by the decimal
equivalent of the period covered measured in years. The inflation factor will
be recalculated every five years with the first recalculation occurring in
January 2005. The value of the inflation factor in place at the time the DPUA
adopts the map and list for a project will be applied to that project until all
funds are paid back or the obligation expires. The total payments calculated in
this division (B) shall become a liability against property subsequent to the
contracting for water main extension.
   (C)   For all residential plat subdivision developments, all reimbursement
charges shall be paid in full before the filing of a final plat. For all other
developments, all reimbursement charges shall be paid in full before the
issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 1611, passed 10-25-2005)
§12-931 MAJOR SANITARY SEWER MAIN EXTENSION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   After completion of the major sanitary sewer main extension, the
DPUA will require any person, firm or corporation requesting a new sanitary
sewer service connection within the defined service area of the major sanitary
sewer main to pay to the developer/owner his or her pro rata portion of the
original investment of the developer/owner in the major sanitary sewer main,
together with interest thereon from the date of completion of the main at a
rate not to exceed 6% per annum, such pro rata portion to be calculated on a
square footage basis of the total defined service area of such major sanitary
sewer main.
      (2)   The total service area of such major sanitary sewer main shall
consist of that area of the sanitary sewer drainage basin flowing directly to
said major sanitary sewer main without benefit of any other major sanitary
sewer main as planned by the DPUA and shall be defined by a registered
professional engineer and shall be as agreed upon by the developer/owner and
the DPUA at the time of the execution of the reimbursement schedule. No area
shall be included within the defined service area of more than one
reimbursement schedule.
   (B)   Each tract of property identified in division (A) above shall be
subject to the total major sewer main extension cost participation expense
equal to such tract’s pro rata share, any applicable right-of-way costs and
inflation/deflation adjustment. Calculation of the costs for each individual
tract shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   Pro rata share.
 
(b + c) x (d/a)
a = Total service area in square feet
b = Total improvement costs (not to include repairs, retests, replacement or
    other expenses to correct faulty workmanship or materials)
c = Total right-of-way costs
d = Individual benefiting tract in square feet
      (2)   Right-of-way cost. Actual price paid for acquisition of right-of-
way/utility easement from subject tract, including appraisal fees, attorneys’
fees, court costs and filing fees.
      (3)   Inflation/deflation adjustment. Adjustment of divisions (B)(1) and
(B)(2) above using an inflation factor calculated using the engineering news
record construction cost index. The inflation factor shall be a percentage
increase applied to divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above that adjusts the amount
due for these costs. The initial inflation factor will be calculated by
dividing the January 2000 value by the January 1990 value. To account for the
actual time between adoption of the resolution and repayment of the obligation,
the resulting increase will be divided by ten and multiplied by the decimal
equivalent of the period covered measured in years. The inflation factor will
be recalculated every five years with the first recalculation occurring in
January 2005. The value of the inflation factor in place at the time the DPUA
adopts the map and list for a project will be applied to that project until all
funds are paid back or the obligation expires. The total payments calculated in
this division (B) shall become a liability against the property subsequent to
the contracting for sewer main extension.
   (C)   All such obligations shall be paid in full before the filing of a
final plat or development plan.
(Ord. 1611, passed 10-25-2005)
§12-932 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to constructing a major water main extension or major sanitary
sewer main extension for which the developer/owner desires to recover a portion
of the cost of constructing said extension, the developer/owner shall submit an
application for reimbursement. The application for reimbursement shall be
submitted, reviewed and approved by the general manager.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner or developer making the application;
      (2)   Plans and specifications for the major water and/or sanitary sewer
main extension prepared by a registered professional engineer and meeting the
approved standards and specifications, as established in this land development
code, showing the proposed new location of the new main, location of existing
major water and/or sanitary sewer mains in close proximity thereto, and the
proposed point of connection, costs of construction including, but not limited
to, engineering cost, off-site right-of-way and easement acquisition costs and
labor and materials;
      (3)   Legal descriptions of rights-of-way and easements to be dedicated
to the city; and
      (4)   Current ownership map of the land within the defined service area
of the proposed major utility main extension.
   (C)   Upon making application for reimbursement, the developer/owner or his
or her designated agent, shall prepare a tract map and list of the individually
affected tracts and the estimated pro rata share attributable to each such
tract, hereinafter referred to as the “map and list.” The map and list will
also include all costs, if any, for right-of-way acquisition to each tract. The
map and list shall be made available to the owners of the affected properties.
Notice of the map and list shall be filed on record in the office of the City
Clerk and the County Clerk. Upon written request to the general manager, notice
shall be given within a reasonable time to the requesting party of the most
current estimate of the dollar value of the participation cost of any
identified tract of property.
   (D)   Any owner of a tract of property may, at any time after preparation of
the map and list, cause the tract’s total obligation to be paid to the DPUA.
Unless previously paid, the proportion of the right-of-way cost and pro rata
share attributable to that portion of a tract being developed, as adjusted by
the engineering news record construction cost index, is due as follows: For any
portion of the subject tract that is proposed to develop as a residential
subdivision development, the reimbursement charges are due prior to approval of
the final plat. For any portion of the subject tract that is proposed to
develop as any land use other than residential, the reimbursement charges are
due prior to issuance of a building permit. No residential subdivision final
plat shall be released for filing until all total costs due are actually paid.
   (E)   Each identified tract of property shall be subject to participation in
the reimbursement program commencing with the date that the major utility main
extension is accepted for dedication by the city.
   (F)   Unless previously paid, each defined tract’s share of the
participation cost shall continue as an obligation of the property for its
determined share of the total utility main extension costs, plus the
appropriate inflation/deflation as outlined in §§
12-930(B)(3) or
12-931(B)(3), for a period of 15 years from the date of issuance of the map and
list required by division (C) above. Beginning at year 16 and continuing
through year 20, the pro rata share shall decrease at a rate of 20% of the pro
rata amount existing at the end of the fifteenth year until the pro rata share
obligation is reduced to $0 and thus terminates at the end of the twentieth
year from the date of issuance of the map and list.
(Ord. 1611, passed 10-25-2005)
CHAPTER 10: DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL
Section
   
12-1001   Purpose and intent
   
12-1002   Definitions
   
12-1003   Application
   
12-1004   Appeals
   
12-1005   Warning and disclaimer
   
12-1006   Exemptions
   
12-1007   Responsibilities of developers
   
12-1008   Responsibilities of the city
   
12-1009   Property owner responsibilities
   
12-1010   Development permits
   
12-1011   Review and approval
   
12-1012   Plans, specifications and documentation
   
12-1013   Provision of improvements
   
12-1014   Construction of drainage systems
   
12-1015   Stormwater management principles
   
12-1016   Drainage system performance criteria
   
12-1017   Easements and rights-of-way
   
12-1018   Methods and calculations
   
12-1019   Enforcement and penalty
§12-1001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to set forth the minimum requirements for
drainage system improvements and erosion control within the city and to
establish the public and private responsibilities for the provision thereof.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD or BASE STORM. The flood or storm having a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year, also being defined as having a return
frequency of 100 years.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, persons, corporation or other entity who in his or
her own behalf, or as an agent of another, engages in development, subdivision,
construction of structures or alteration of land in preparation for
development, subdivision or construction.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its
development, subdivision or change in use, including any preparation for
building of or erection of a structure or installation of paved surfaces,
grading, fill or other change in existing land contours.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The surface and subsurface system for the removal of water
from the land, including both the natural elements of streams, marshes, swales
and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and human-made
elements which include culverts, ditches, channels, creeks, retention
facilities, detention facilities, gutters, streets and storm sewer systems.
   ENGINEER. A licensed professional engineer registered in the state or a
reciprocating state as recognized by the State Board of Registration for
professional engineers and land surveyors.
   MINOR MAINTENANCE. Any activity for the maintenance of a drainage system
specifically excluding repair or replacement of paved channel liners,
replacement of revetments or riprap, or replacement of soil lost due to
meandering of a channel. MINOR MAINTENANCE includes, but is not limited to,
mowing, replacement of vegetation and filling of erosion gullies.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. The dispersal of surface waters through ground absorption
and by drainage channels formed by the existing surface topography which exist
as of January 30, 1996, or formed by any natural or approved human-made changes
in the surface topography.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1003 APPLICATION.
   All subdivisions of land, developments or improvements to any land in the
corporate limits of the city as now and as may be hereafter established shall
be subject to the provisions of this chapter except as specifically exempt in
accordance with §
12-1006.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1004 APPEALS.
   If any determination based upon the provisions of this chapter is felt to be
unreasonable or inapplicable, a developer or property owner may appeal such
determination to the Planning Commission. Upon written request for the appeal
which shall include all justifications and reasons for that appeal, the
question will be heard at the next available meeting of the Planning
Commission. The report and recommendations of the Commission shall then be
forwarded to the City Council which may act to approve, deny or conditionally
approve the appeal.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1005 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER.
   The provisions of this chapter are considered reasonable and appropriate for
regulatory purposes with respect to provision of stormwater and drainage system
improvements. This does not imply that compliance with the provisions herein
shall relieve any person or persons of any duty or responsibility imposed by
law. Neither shall this chapter create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1006 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities are specifically exempted from the requirements of
this chapter:
   (A)   Home gardening or other minor clearing or excavation work not incident
to a change in the use of the land;
   (B)   Emergency repairs necessary for the preservation of life, health or
property;
   (C)   Routine maintenance or repair work on public or private roads and
rights-of-way or utility easements and rights-of-way; or
   (D)   Construction of, or additions to, single-family, two-family and
accessory residential buildings, provided there is no encroachment upon
drainage easements or modification of approved drainage system elements and
construction is elevated or floodproofed in accordance with the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1007 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEVELOPERS.
   It shall be the responsibility of any developer to:
   (A)   Provide drainage system improvements, easements and rights-of-way
dedications in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Prepare all drawings, plans, specifications, statements, studies,
justifications and other data required by this chapter in a form that permits
an orderly and comprehensive review and approval to assure that all assigned
responsibilities have been sufficiently and correctly incorporated;
   (C)   Prevent soil dispersal, sedimentation, erosion or other similar forms
of pollution from any surface on the site during development activities in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   Prevent any and all drainage interferences, obstructions or other
adverse effects upon drainage into, through or adjacent to the development from
upstream or higher elevation source by the use of temporary or permanent bypass
channels, channel improvements or other facilities as may be required; and
   (E)   Construct all buildings to a finish floor elevation of at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or floodproof all buildings to at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or provide minimum finish floor elevations
for each lot or parcel at least one foot above the base flood elevation on the
face of any final subdivision plat.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1008 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the city to:
   (A)   Develop and implement a drainage master plan or plans to encompass
existing drainage problems and foreseeable drainage burdens caused by future
development, provided that the absence of such a drainage master plan shall not
invalidate other requirements of this chapter;
   (B)   Maintain and repair drainage channels and their slopes when located
within or upon rights-of-way dedicated to the city;
   (C)   Maintain and repair floodway and flood fringe areas that are within
dedicated public areas, rights-of-way, park lands or publicly owned
developments;
   (D)   Maintain and repair drainage system components within publicly
dedicated drainage easements and rights-of-way, exclusive of minor maintenance
as set forth in §
12-1009;
   (E)   Develop and implement standards and specifications required to clearly
and accurately interpret the physical requirements of this chapter;
   (F)   Require minimum finish floor elevations or floodproofing to an
elevation of at least one foot above the base flood as a condition of building
permits within developments or subdivisions approved under the terms of this
chapter; and
   (G)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter in the design and
construction of public improvements.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1009 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of all owners of property, whether developed,
undeveloped or undergoing development, to:
   (A)   Mow and provide minor maintenance of drainage channels and their
slopes for that portion of the channel lying within their property lines;
   (B)   Keep clear all drainage channels within the boundaries of their
properties in accordance with the requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Control all stormwater runoff and drainage from points and surfaces on
the property; and
   (D)   Take reasonable and prudent measures so as not to cause drainage
interferences, obstructions, blockages or any other adverse effects upon
drainage, into, through or out of their property.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1010 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   All persons who intend development of any land shall submit all
documentation required by §
12-1012 in application for development permit approval, unless granted a waiver
thereof from the Public Works Department based upon submittals sufficient to
adequately demonstrate that the proposed development shall have no significant
impact upon existing drainage facilities or conditions.
   (B)   Application to subdivision review:
      (1)   Preliminary plats and improvement plans submitted in conjunction
with subdivision applications shall be accompanied by or incorporate the
documentation required in §
12-1012;
      (2)   Final plats submitted for review and approval shall include or be
accompanied by the following documents:
         (a)   Minimum finished floor elevations not less than one foot above
the base flood elevation for each lot or parcel within the subdivision;
         (b)   All required dedications of drainage easements or rights-of-way;
         (c)   As built plans showing all drainage system improvements or
construction; and
         (d)   Certification of the engineer preparing the drainage system
improvement plans that such improvements have been installed in accordance with
the approved plans therefor.
      (3)   In the instance that all improvements have not been completed,
prior to the request for release of the final plat, the application shall be
accompanied by a performance bond or other surety sufficient to guarantee the
completion thereof.
   (C)   (1)   The documentation required in §
12-1012 shall be submitted in conjunction with or prior to application for
building or other permits.
      (2)   Development not requiring a permit under provisions of other
ordinances shall submit the required documentation to the Public Works
Department of the city.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1011 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   All documentation and plans required by this section must be approved
by the city prior to their implementation:
      (1)   In the instance of subdivisions, a certificate of approval shall be
filed with the Planning Commission as a part of the preliminary plat and
improvement plan record; and
      (2)   (a)   In the instance of developments other than subdivisions,
approval shall be attached to the building permit, if required, or issued as a
separate certificate to the developer.
         (b)   Approval shall be subject to the submission of executed drainage
easements or rights-of-way dedications, as appropriate.
   (B)   The city may submit any required documents to other state or federal
agencies or consultants, in addition to any city department, for review and
comment prior to the city’s approval.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1012 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND DOCUMENTATION.
   Prior to the initiation of any development within the scope of this chapter,
the developer shall cause plans, specifications and documentation herein
required to be prepared by an engineer and submitted to the city for review and
approval. At a minimum, such plans, specifications and documentation shall
provide the following submittals.
   (A)   Predevelopment report. This report shall include information
accurately describing the following conditions of the site:
      (1)   Dimensions, size and location;
      (2)   Existing topography;
      (3)   Soil types;
      (4)   Vegetation;
      (5)   Flood hazard areas;
      (6)   Other significant surface features;
      (7)   Existing land use;
      (8)   Existing runoff volume and rates; and
      (9)   Existing runoff routing;
   (B)   Plans and specifications. Detailed plans for drainage system
improvements and the control of erosion and sedimentation shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Construction plans, details and specifications for all drainage
system improvements;
      (2)   An estimate of soil loss during and after development;
      (3)   Proposals for the control of erosion and sedimentation in
accordance with the requirements of the state’s pollutant discharge elimination
system;
      (4)   Proposed topography of the site after development or improvement,
including the method of handling runoff and stormwater;
      (5)   Data showing the nature and extent of the proposed clearing,
grading and development or improvement operations; and
      (6)   Description of hydraulic methods, assumptions, calculations and
results used in preparation of drainage improvement plans.
   (C)   Drainage impact statement. A written statement of the impact on
upstream and downstream drainage prepared by an engineer shall be submitted and
approved by the city. The accuracy and validity of any drainage impact
statement and attachments shall be capable of withstanding serious challenge at
any stage in the review and approval process in order to be accepted as a part
of the project;
   (D)   Easements and rights-of-way.
      (1)   A description of proposed easements or rights-of-way within the
boundaries of property under the control of the developer and as necessary to
comply with the provisions of §
12-1013;
      (2)   Where easements or rights-of-way are required beyond the limits of
the property under the control of the developer, the developer shall attempt to
secure such easements or rights-of-way on behalf of the city; and
      (3)   Where efforts to secure easements or rights-of-way by the developer
in compliance with division (D)(2) above are unsuccessful, the city may agree
to pursue such easements or rights-of-way as it may find appropriate in the
public interest.
   (E)   Compliance with other regulations.
      (1)   All plans and documentation required by this chapter must comply
with all city standards, regulations, ordinances and with any approved drainage
master plan or drainage studies; and
      (2)   A floodplain development permit is required to be obtained prior to
any construction activity within the 100-year floodplain as required by the
flood hazard area development regulations in Chapter 6 of this part.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1013 PROVISION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to drainage system improvements within a development, the
city may require storm drainage improvements beyond the boundaries of the
development, preferably within open channels, where necessary to facilitate the
flow of stormwater from or through the development and provide a continuous
storm drainage system from the point of discharge from the development to the
nearest existing channel, drainage easement or right-of-way.
   (B)   Where compliance with the terms of this chapter requires construction
of drainage improvements beyond the boundaries of property under control of the
developer, the city may agree to participate in such construction as it may
find appropriate in the public interest.
   (C)   Improvements provided by the developer shall be fully and properly
maintained by the developer prior to acceptance by the city.
   (D)   The city may require performance and maintenance bonds for drainage
system improvements to be dedicated to the city in the same manner and amount
as required for public street improvements.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1014 CONSTRUCTION OF DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
   Drainage systems shall be constructed in full accordance with approved
designs and specifications, without variation, except as may be authorized by a
change order or field change approved by the city.
   (A)   The developer, landowner or legal agent thereof engaging in any land
improvement or change covered by this chapter shall be responsible for any and
all construction activity as covered by approved designs, plans and data.
Projects and tasks proposed in the plans and documents required by this chapter
shall be implemented as proposed under the supervision of the engineer
preparing such plans and documents.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to exclude the developer or his or
her responsible supervisor from providing installations in conformance with the
requirements and constraints of this chapter whether a part of the design
documents, or inadvertently or otherwise excluded.
   (C)   Upon determination and notification by the city that construction or
any part thereof is in violation of this chapter or approved construction
plans, such work shall be immediately discontinued and shall not be restarted
until such violation is corrected.
   (D)   All facilities, structures and installations made under the provisions
of this chapter shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner and using methods
and procedures that shall assure a quality installation. The construction of
any drainage system shall conform to the State Department of Transportation
specifications for the construction of drainage system unless otherwise
specifically approved by the city.
   (E)   (1)   The developer shall provide barricades, guardrails, walkways,
shoring, warning signs and flashers, and such other measures as deemed
necessary to protect workers, traffic, pedestrians and any other person near or
adjacent to a hazard from injury or damage.
      (2)   Such protection shall be provided upon start of an operation and
shall be fully maintained until there is no longer a hazard and approval has
been given for removal of the protection. Signing shall be in accordance with
part VI, “Traffic Controls For Street and Highway Construction and Maintenance
Operations” of the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (F)   The structural integrity of all drainage structures shall be
maintained during all phases of construction.
   (G)   (1)   A construction notice to proceed must be obtained from the city
prior to the start of construction of any drainage system or improvement which
is:
         (a)   Owned by or to be dedicated to the city;
         (b)   To be constructed on a city right-of-way or easement;
         (c)   A required “off-site” improvement; or
         (d)   Otherwise required by the city.
      (2)   Construction inspections may be made during and after construction
by the city and may serve as the basis of all approvals or disapprovals.
   (H)   The erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be implemented in
accordance with the provisions of the state’s pollutant discharge elimination
system. Developers, property owners and contractors shall keep streets,
gutters, inlets, drainage pipes, swales, ditches, drainage channels and all
drainage devices and structures clean and free from debris, sedimentation, soil
and any materials during construction.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1015 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter that the primary component of
drainage systems shall be natural channels within drainage easement or rights-
of-way. Streets, alleys and enclosed conduits shall principally serve and be
designed to carry stormwater to natural channels in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Open channels. Natural drainage channels and techniques shall be given
priority consideration in preparation of drainage system designs and shall be
designed or improved as an integral part of the landscape.
      (1)   The design of any development should provide for the maximum
practical use of open channels and natural streams.
      (2)   Drainage channel improvements shall be designed to preserve and
protect large trees and other worthy botanical and geological features to the
greatest possible extent.
      (3)   Wherever channel improvements are required to accommodate
calculated flows in a specified manner, the designs shall provide maximum
utilization of turf, sodding and other natural drainage techniques.
   (B)   Storm sewers. Closed, underground drainage conduits should be employed
as appropriate to meet site or geographic conditions or to meet the
requirements of this chapter and all specifications and performance standards
pertaining thereto.
   (C)   Streets and alleys. Stormwater runoff into or within a street or alley
shall be permitted, provided the developer fully and adequately demonstrates
that the street or alley or any improvement thereof will provide drainage in
full conformance with all other provisions of this chapter and will prevent
runoff or overflow into adjacent or nearby property beyond the capacity of the
existing or proposed drainage system.
   (D)   Erosion control. All persons engaged in land development or
modifications shall prevent the erosion of soil and movement of sedimentation
into, onto or through streets, gutters, catch basins, culverts or other
drainage channels and shall prevent erosion as a result of flows from streets,
gutters, culverts or other drainage system components.
      (1)   Where it can be demonstrated that there is no alternative to rapid
runoff water because of identifiable restrictions, the developer shall be
required to provide measures to prevent erosion, damage, flooding or other
adverse effects.
      (2)   The city may require the cleaning, straightening or repair of any
natural drainage channel or natural features of other drainage channels when
necessary to provide for the free flow of water or to eliminate or prevent
erosion upstream and downstream.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1016 DRAINAGE SYSTEM PERFORMANCE CRITERIA.
   The following criteria shall be applied to the design of drainage system
improvements required under the provisions of this chapter. Drainage system
elements shall be designed to accommodate stormwater runoff based upon full
development of the contributing drainage basin area as indicated in the latest
general or land use plan for the city, or as determined by the Public Works
Department in consultation with the engineer.
   (A)   Detention or retention facilities. Reserved.
   (B)   Open channels. Open channels, flumes or swales shall be designed to
carry the base flood within the limits of the dedicated easement or right-of-
way.
   (C)   Storm sewers. Storm sewers and appurtenances shall be designed in
accordance with the standards and practices of the State Department of
Transportation. Storm sewers and appurtenances shall have the following minimum
performance criteria.
      (1)   The combination of storm sewer and its overflow outlet shall have
the capacity to convey the 50-year return frequency rainfall event within the
drainage easements or rights-of-way. The storm sewer shall have the capacity to
convey not less than the ten-year return frequency rainfall event.
      (2)   The performance of the overflow outlets for the storm sewer system
during the base flood or storm shall be indicated under the condition that the
storm sewer is plugged or inoperative.
      (3)   The minimum velocity in a storm sewer flowing full shall be three
feet per second. Velocities less than three feet per second may be approved if
properly designed sediment traps which are accessible for maintenance are
provided at the upstream end of the sections where the velocity is to be less
than three feet per second.
   (D)   Streets. Streets shall have the following performance criteria with
respect to drainage. Alternative designs may be considered and approved where
physical, topographic or other constraints make compliance with these
performance criteria impractical.
      (1)   Streets with curb and gutters shall have the following performance
criteria.
         (a)   Arterial streets shall maintain two clear, ten-foot lanes of
traffic during 25-year return frequency rainfall event.
         (b)   Drainage on collector streets shall not exceed two inches in
depth at the crown of the street during the 25-year return frequency rainfall
event.
         (c)   Drainage on residential streets shall not exceed three and one-
half inches in depth at the crown of the street during the 25-year return
frequency rainfall event.
      (2)   Streets without curb and gutters shall have the following
performance criteria.
         (a)   Arterial streets shall maintain two clear, ten-foot lanes of
traffic during the 25-year return frequency rainfall event.
         (b)   Residential or collector streets shall maintain two clear,
eight-foot lanes of traffic during the 25-year return frequency rainfall event.
      (3)   The performance of streets during the base flood or storm shall be
indicated.
   (E)   Pedestrian and vehicular bridges. Structures with a clear span of 20
feet or greater, whether for pedestrian or vehicular traffic, shall be designed
in accordance with the standards and practices of the State Department of
Transportation county bridge program.
   (F)   Safety and convenience.
      (1)   When stormwater is conveyed via streets, flumes, swales or open
channels, consideration should be given to pedestrian and traffic convenience
and safety.
      (2)   At intersections of an arterial street with any other street,
special provisions may be required to avoid sheeting of water across arterial
intersections, inundation of crosswalks, sidewalks, driving lanes and other
safety or nuisance problems. These special provisions may include additional
easements or rights-of-way, structures, flumes, fences or additional pavement
width.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1017 EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Drainage easements or rights-of-way shall be adequate to accommodate the
design frequency discharge within the limits of such dedication.
   (A)   Where such dedication is not adjacent to and parallel with street
right-of-way or other public property, the city may require dedications in
excess of that necessary to accommodate the design frequency discharge in order
to facilitate maintenance access.
   (B)   In no case shall a drainage easement or right-of-way for surface
facilities provide a width of less than ten feet unless adjacent to and
parallel with a dedicated street or other public open space.
   (C)   In no case shall a drainage easement or right-of-way for storm sewer
facilities provide a width of less than 15 feet unless adjacent to and parallel
with a dedicated street or other public open space.
   (D)   Where a drainage easement overlaps or parallels a utility easement,
the city may require such additional width as necessary to permit installation
of utilities without obstruction or interference with drainage system elements.
In such instances, development plans shall indicate the location of utility
facilities within the coincident easements.
   (E)   Where portions of a development are within a floodplain, identified in
the flood insurance study for the city, easements or rights-of-way shall be
sufficient to assure compliance with the flood hazard area development
regulations as contained within the land development code.
   (F)   Drainage system elements with a contributing drainage basin area of
120 acres or greater shall be within rights-of-way dedicated to the city.
   (G)   Drainage system components with a contributing drainage basin area of
greater than 40 and less than 120 acres may be within dedicated drainage
easements, provided that such easement shall be in excess of any minimum lot
size requirements established within applicable zoning or subdivision
regulations.
   (H)   Drainage system components with a contributing drainage basin of less
than 40 acres may be within dedicated drainage easements.
   (I)   In no case shall a subdivision design require that surface drainage
from any tract or lot to cross more than two separate tracts or lots without
being contained or diverted into a dedicated street, drainage right-of-way or
drainage easement.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1018 METHODS AND CALCULATIONS.
   (A)   Rate of flow. The calculation of runoff rates shall be by the rational
formula using antecedent precipitation factors. The rational formula and
acceptable values shall be as follows.
      (1)   The rational formula is as follows.
 
Q = C Ca I A
A  = Drainage area in acres
C  = Runoff coefficient
Ca = Antecedent precipitation factor
I  = Intensity of rainfall in inches per hour
 
      (2)   Acceptable values of Ca are as follows.
 
2 - 10 years 1.0
25 years     1.1
50 years     1.2
100 years    1.25
The product of C Ca must not exceed 1
 
      (3)   Acceptable values for C according to the description of the
drainage area shall be within the following ranges.
Description of Area
Description of Area
Business:
Downtown              0.70 0.95
Other business        0.50 0.70
Industrial:
Heavy                 0.60 0.90
Light                 0.50 0.80
Parks, cemeteries     0.10 0.25
Playgrounds           0.20 0.35
Unimproved areas      0.10 0.30
Residential:
Apartments            0.50 0.70
Attached multi-family 0.60 0.75
Detached multi-family 0.40 0.60
Single-family         0.30 0.50
Suburban              0.25 0.40
 
      (4)   Acceptable values for C according to the description of surface
characteristics shall be within the following ranges.
Character of Surface
Character of Surface
Agricultural land:
Bare, packed, rough   0.20 0.50
Bare, packed, smooth  0.30 0.60
Cultivated:
Heavy soil, no crop   0.30 0.60
Heavy soil, with crop 0.20 0.50
Sandy soil, no crop   0.20 0.50
Sandy soil, with crop 0.10 0.25
Pasture:
Heavy soil            0.15 0.45
Sandy soil            0.05 0.25
Woodlands             0.05 0.25
Asphalt               0.70 0.95
Concrete              0.80 0.95
Lawns:
Sandy soil:
<2% slope             0.05 0.10
2% - 7% slope         0.10 0.15
>7% slope             0.15 0.35
Heavy soil:
<2% slope             0.13 0.17
2% - 7% slope         0.18 0.22
>7% slope             0.25 0.35
Roofs                 0.75 0.85
 
   (B)   Rainfall intensity. The following formula is acceptable for
calculation of rainfall intensity for various storm recurrence intervals using
the factors provided.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3613.jpg]
a, b and c = Values taken from the table below for specified recurrence
             intervals
I          = Intensity of rainfall in inches per hour
Td         = Duration or time of concentration
 
 
Storm Recurrence Interval
Factors 2-Year 5-Year 10-Year 25-Year 50-Year 100-Year
a       56.43  72.0   82.0    95.0    108.0   120.0
b       11.5   15.0   15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
c       0.81   0.80   0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
 
   (C)   Time of concentration. The following formulas are acceptable for
calculation of time of concentration as applied in the rational formula.
 
 
Channel flows:  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
                12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/IMAGES/0-0-0-3617.jpg]
Overland flows: [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
                12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/IMAGES/0-0-0-3615.jpg]
K               = Surface coefficient
L               = Length of flow in feet
S               = Average slope in feet per foot
 
K Values for Overland Flow
Surface          K Value Surface               K Value
Average grass    1.000   Timber, thin grass    0.942
Bare soil        0.604   Residential           0.511
Dense grass      1.130   Pasture               1.040
Pavement         0.372   Commercial            0.445
Poor grass       0.900   Cultivated soil       0.775
K Values for Channel Flow
Surface          K Value Surface               K Value
Bar ditch        0.012   Pooling stream        0.01020
Concrete channel 0.006   Average stream        0.00835
Curbed street    0.0035  Straight clean stream 0.00592
Sodden swale     0.008   Meandering stream     0.01020
 
   (D)   Structure sizing. The sizing of all drainage facilities or structures
shall be done by the use of established available engineering principles and
practice and the methods shall be acceptable to the city.
      (1)   The structure sizing shall include an analysis of the existence of
inlet or outlet control conditions and a backwater analysis where applicable;
      (2)   Where Manning’s equation is used, the value for coefficients will
be taken from the following references:
         (a)   Open channels:
            1.   Open Channel Hydraulics, Chow, Ven T., McGraw-Hill Book Co.,
New York, N.Y., 1959;
            2.   USDA Handbook SCS-TP-61, W.O. Ree; and
            3.   Roughness Characteristics of Natural Channels, USGS water
supply paper no. 1849, Washington, D.C., 1967.
         (b)   Closed conduits:
            1.   Seelye’s Handbook;
            2.   Handbook of Hydraulics, King, H.W.;
            3.   Eschbach Handbook; and
            4.   Modern Sewer Design, American Iron and Steel Institute.
   (E)   Vegetative linings.
      (1)   Natural open channels with vegetative linings shall be designed
considering infrequent mowing unless other conditions are demonstrated and
justified. Guaranteed maintenance for exceptions must be established; and
      (2)   Cover vegetation for channel linings must be selected according to
the “Stephens County Best Management Practices For Erosion Control” and shall
be approved by the city.
   (F)   Design standards and practices. Where the provisions of this chapter
are insufficient to prescribe best design principles and practice, the design
standards and practices of the State Department of Transportation shall be
used.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
§12-1019 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation found in violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be fined as provided in §
1-108. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day a violation
continues.
   (B)   Where the city or its officers determines that construction or other
activity regulated within the scope of this chapter is in violation of the
provisions herein or in violation of approved construction plans and
specifications, the city may issue notice to stop work or notice of
deficiencies directing corrective actions. Failure of the owner, developer,
contractor or their agents to comply with such notice shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter, punishable as provided above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit action to enforce
or seek compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter through action
in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1387, passed 1-30-1996)
CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS
Section
   
12-1101   Purpose and intent
   
12-1102   Scope and applicability
   
12-1103   Definitions
   
12-1104   Landscape point system
   
12-1105   Expansion of existing nonconforming development
   
12-1106   Selection of landscape material
   
12-1107   Installation of landscaping
   
12-1108   Maintenance of landscaping
   
12-1109   Landscape plan submittal requirements
   
12-1110   Enforcement and appeals
§12-1101 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to require landscape elements,
particularly plant materials, within proposed developments in an organized and
harmonious fashion that will enhance, protect and promote the economic and
aesthetic environment of the city, and provide for the prosperity, comfort and
enjoyment of its citizens.
   (B)   The city recognizes the value of landscaping in achieving the
following goals:
      (1)   Promote the re-establishment of vegetation in urban areas for
health, ecological and aesthetic benefits;
      (2)   Provide new planting in concert with natural vegetation and careful
grading;
      (3)   Encourage the preservation of existing trees;
      (4)   Promote compatibility between land uses by reducing the visual,
noise and lighting impacts of development on users of the site and abutting
properties;
      (5)   Unify development and enhance and define public and private places;
and
      (6)   Provide an overall planting scheme that will:
         (a)   Reduce soil erosion and the volume and rate of discharge of
stormwater runoff;
         (b)   Aid in energy conservation by shading and sheltering structures
from energy losses caused by weather and wind;
         (c)   Mitigate the loss of natural resources;
         (d)   Provide visual screens and buffers that mitigate the impact of
conflicting land uses to preserve the appearance, character and value of
existing neighborhoods;
         (e)   Provide shade, comfort and seasonal color;
         (f)   Reduce glare, noise and heat; and
         (g)   Provide greater perceptual clarity along major streets and roads
by more consistent planting of property sized street trees.
   (C)   It is further recognized that good landscaping attracts potential
residents and businesses to the city, and creates a safer, more attractive and
more pleasant living and working environment for all residents and visitors of
the city.
   (D)   (1)   These regulations are intended at minimum standards for
landscape treatment.
      (2)   Owners and developers are encouraged to exceed this standard in
seeking more creative solutions, both for the enhanced value of their land and
for the collective health and enjoyment of all citizens of the city.
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1102 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All applicants for building permits to construct new buildings and/or
parking areas or to expand existing buildings and/or parking areas for any use
designated as “nonresidential” per the International Code Council shall be
required to meet the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the construction or
expansion of one- and two-family residential dwellings or accessory structures,
regardless of the zoning districts in which they are located.
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1103 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BERM. An earthen mound designated to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views and/or decrease noise.
   CALIPER. The diameter of a tree trunk less than 12 inches in diameter. For
trees less than four inches in diameter, it is measured six inches from the
ground. For trees between four inches and 12 inches in diameter, it is measured
12 inches from the ground.
   DETA. The City Enhancement Trust Authority as established by the City
Council.
   EVERGREEN. A plant with foliage that persists and remains green year-round.
   EXISTING SIGNIFICANT TREE. An existing tree with a caliper greater than
eight inches that is determined to be in good health. Landscape points will be
awarded by the Director of the Department of Community Development based on the
health and general shape and appearance of the tree.
   GROUNDCOVER. An evergreen or deciduous planting less than 24 inches in
height, excluding turf grass.
   LANDSCAPE PLAN. Graphic and written criteria, specifications and detailed
plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural and human-made features such
as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks, structures and other
features to comply with provisions of this chapter. All landscape plans shall
include calculations of the site and parking lot landscaping points required,
along with a table indicating how said requirement has been met.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. Any area that contains trees, shrubs and/or groundcover
that is eligible for point credits.
   PARKING LOT ISLAND. An unpaved area within a parking lot that is surrounded
on at least three sides by the paved parking area but separated from the paved
area by a barrier curb.
   PLANTING PLAN. The preparation of graphic and written criteria of plant
placement, plant specification of type, size and spacing, and other features to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   PLANTING SEASON. The most favorable time to plant trees in the city is
established as the months between and including October and April.
   SHRUB. A living self-supporting woody deciduous or evergreen species no less
than eight inches in height and no greater than 15 feet in height, which will
remain fully vegetated throughout the year.
   TREE. A living self-supporting woody or evergreen plant that normally grows
to a minimum height of 15 feet and which has one or several self-supporting
stems or trunks and numerous branches.
   TURF GRASS. Existing or installed grass that has been sodded, seeded or
hydro-mulched. TURF GRASS eligible for point credits must be located within the
property lines of a development. The maximum credit for turf is 25% of the
total landscape points required for any development. All turf credited points
shall completely cover all exposed areas of soil after one full growing season.
   XERISCAPE. Landscaping which incorporates only drought tolerant plant
materials, as indicated in the approved city planting materials list, which
after establishment will not require supplemental water from irrigation.
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1104 LANDSCAPE POINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The minimum amount of landscaping required for an individual
development project is that amount of landscaping with a total point value (as
determined from the table below) equal to or exceeding the total required
landscape points, being the sum of the “site points” and the “parking lot
points.” Site points are determined by the size of the developed area, and
parking lot points are determined by the number of parking spaces. For the
purposes of calculating landscape points, the developed area may be submitted
in the form of the legal description of the property or scaled, dimensioned and
well-defined area of development that is referenced on the site plan.
   (B)   Number of landscaping points required:
Size of Developed Area Number of Points Required
Size of Developed Area      Number of Points Required
Commercial development:
                            Site points = 25
1 to 5,000 square feet      Parking lot points = 2 points per required parking
                            space and 1 point for each proposed additional
                            parking space beyond required spaces
                            Site points = 25 plus 1 point for each additional
                            200 square feet of building area
More than 5,000 square feet Parking lot points = 2 points per required parking
                            space and 1 point for each proposed additional
                            parking space beyond required spaces
Industrial development:
                            Site points = 25
1 to 5,000 square feet      Parking lot points = 2 points per required parking
                            space and 1 point for each proposed additional
                            parking space beyond required spaces
                            Site points = 25 plus 1 point for each additional
                            1,000 square feet of building area
More than 5,000 square feet Parking lot points = 2 points per required parking
                            space and 1 point for each proposed additional
                            parking space beyond required spaces
 
   (C)   When only a portion of a larger tract is developed then only the
developed area shall be considered when determining the number of points
required. All required landscaping shall be placed within the developed area.
   (D)   Sixty percent of the total landscaping shall be within the front and
side yards.
   (E)   One hundred percent of the parking lot points must be located within
five feet of the paved area associated with parking and maneuvering.
   (F)   (1)   Forty percent of the landscaping requirement attributable to the
parking area (parking lot points) shall be located within parking lot islands.
      (2)   For the purposes of this requirement, a PARKING LOT ISLAND is any
landscaped space greater than or equal to five feet in width that is located or
extends into a paved parking area for approximately the length of one or more
spaces.
   (G)   A maximum of 25% of the required points may be used for turf grass,
river rock or other ground cover, and a maximum of 50% of the ground cover in
any yard area may be non-live materials.
   (H)   A minimum of 25% of the required points shall be used for evergreen
plantings.
   (I)   Only 10% of the landscaping requirement may be used within designated
detention basins. Any additional landscaping provided within these detention
basins shall not be assigned any landscape points for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   Developments providing additional landscaping such that the total
number of landscaping points provided is at least 20% more than the total
required landscaping points, may reduce the total required number of parking
spaces for said development by a maximum of 10%. This provision shall not apply
to developments requiring less than ten parking spaces.
   (K)   (1)   The developer may use any combination of plantings to obtain the
necessary number of points for the development. Different lots and landscapes
will lend themselves to different types of plantings.
      (2)   The regulations attempt to encourage creativity and diversity in
landscaping. Different types of plantings shall be worth point values as shown
in Table 1, “Landscape Point Values,” of this section.
   (L)   Landscaping placed in a public right-of-way or easement shall be
limited to turf and/or other groundcover, unless otherwise approved by the
Director of the Department of Community Development. All such landscaping shall
be irrigated and maintained by the developer and may be counted towards
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (M)   (1)   All existing trees and other landscaping for which credit is
requested must be in good health and located within the developed area.
      (2)   Any such credits are subject to approval by the Director of the
Department of Community Development and will be awarded based on the type, size
and condition of the existing trees and other landscaping in accordance with
Table 1, “Landscape Point Values,” of this section.
Table 1: Landscape Point Values
Type of Plant Material Size Information Additional Information Point Value
Table 1: Landscape Point Values
Type of                                                                              Additional  Point
Plant       Size Information                                                         Information Value
Material
            Deciduous trees: 8” or larger caliper                                              26
            Evergreen trees: 22’ and greater in height
            Deciduous: 7” caliper                                                              24
            Evergreen: 19’ to 21’ in height
            Deciduous: 6” caliper                                                              22
Large trees Evergreen: 16’ to 18’ in height
            Deciduous: 5” caliper                                                              20
            Evergreen: 13’ to 15’ in height
            Deciduous: 4” caliper                                                              18
            Evergreen: 11’ to 12’ in height
            Deciduous: 3” caliper                                                              15
            Evergreen: 9’ to 10’ in height
Medium      Deciduous: 2” caliper                                                              12
trees       Evergreen: 7’ to 8’ in height
Small trees Deciduous: 1” caliper                                                              9
            Evergreen: 5’ to 6’ in height
Ornamental  Deciduous: multiple trunk (minimum 3) smallest with 1” caliper                     9
trees       Evergreen: 5’ to 6’ in height
Large       5 gallon, 24” in height at time of planting                                        3
shrub/cacti
Medium      3 gallon, 12” in height at time of planting                                        2
shrub/cacti
Small       2 gallon, 8” in height at time of planting                                         1
shrub/cacti
Ornamental  1 gallon                                                                             0.5
grasses
Groundcover 1 gallon                                                                             0.5
Groundcover 4” pots                                                                            0.25
Existing                                                                                         26 to
significant Greater than 8” caliper                                                            50
tree
                                                                                                 2 per
Landscaping 30” in height; minimum 10’ in length, 3:1 slope                                  5
berm                                                                                             linear
                                                                                                 feet
Large       24” diameter, 500 pounds                                                           5
boulder
Medium      12” diameter, 130 pounds                                                           2
boulder
River rock                                                                                       0.25
ground      1” to 6” rounded stones (not crushed), minimum 180 pounds per square             per
cover       yard                                                                                 square
                                                                                                 yard
Special
features:
                                                                                     Points
Bench                                                                                based on    5 to
                                                                                     size and    10
                                                                                     type
                                                                                     Points
Fountain/waterfall                                                                   based on    20 to
                                                                                     size and    50
                                                                                     type
                                                                                     Points
                                                                                     based on
                                                                                     size of     5 to
Installed irrigation                                                                 area        50
                                                                                     included in
                                                                                     irrigation
                                                                                     system
                                                                                     Points
Pavilion/gazebo                                                                      based on    20 to
                                                                                     size and    50
                                                                                     type
                                                                                     Points
Statue/figure                                                                        based on    10 to
                                                                                     size and    25
                                                                                     type
                                                                                                 0.25
Turf grass                                                                                       per
                                                                                                 square
                                                                                                 yard
 
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1105 EXPANSION OF EXISTING NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All developments which are in existence prior to the effective date of
this chapter may continue as legal nonconforming development until such time as
a building permit is issued to expand the structure and/or parking area.
   (B)   Any application for a building permit for an expansion of a structure
or parking lot within a legal nonconforming development shall require the
development to be brought into compliance with this chapter on a graduated
scale based upon the ratio of the area of the building expansion to the area of
the existing structures. Said ratio shall be applied to the total amount of
site and parking lot landscaping points required for development. The required
landscaping shall be placed throughout the development as indicated herein.
   (C)   When not all structures within a legal nonconforming development are
being expanded, the number of landscaping points required may be determined
either from the ratio of the area of expansion to the area of the affected
building or the ratio of the area of expansion to the total area of all the
buildings within the development. The ratio used would be applied to the
landscaping points required for the expanded building or entire development as
appropriate. The required landscaping would be placed around the affected
building and associated parking or throughout the entire development depending
on which method is used.
   (D)   In addition to the allowable methods of irrigation as listed in this
chapter, a hose attachment located within 100 feet of all required landscape
area and plant materials shall be allowed as an acceptable method of provided
irrigation for landscaping installed with expanded legal nonconforming
developments.
   (E)   For the construction or expansion of parking area not associated with
a new or expanded building, the total site and parking lot points would be
determined based on the developed area and number of parking spaces as provided
herein, with the required landscaping being placed within and around the new or
expanded parking area, or distributed throughout the development associated
with said parking area, provided that such distribution is in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1106 SELECTION OF LANDSCAPE MATERIAL.
   (A)   (1)   When selecting plant materials to be used for compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, attention should be given to the suitability of
the material for use in southwestern Oklahoma, specifically the exposure, soil
requirements, hardiness and drought tolerance.
      (2)   The developer is strongly encouraged to consider selecting plant
materials from Oklahoma Proven as published by the Department of Horticulture
and Landscape Architecture at Oklahoma State University or the city planting
materials list.
   (B)   Only trees selected from Oklahoma Proven as published by the
Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture at Oklahoma State
University, or the city planting materials list may be credited towards
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Certain trees due to their susceptibility to disease, decay,
insects and/or their production of seeds, fruits, sap or other objectionable
material are considered nuisances and are prohibited from being included on any
landscaping plan submitted under this chapter.
      (2)   Such trees shall be identified within the city planting materials
list.
   (D)   Trees not listed in the city planting materials list as either
recommended or prohibited may be included within the project landscaping but
shall not be awarded landscaping points.
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1107 INSTALLATION OF LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   All landscape plans must meet safety distance and height requirement
for an unobstructed view at sight triangles and driveways.
   (B)   All planting beds within new construction shall be a minimum of five
feet. Planting areas within existing parking areas shall be a minimum of three
feet. Within narrower areas only turf or other ground cover may be used towards
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   All planting beds should include mulch and edging. Tree locations
shall include mulch.
   (D)   (1)   The use of artificial grass or any form of synthetic material
does not meet the definition of landscaping as required herein.
      (2)   Such materials may be used in conjunction with other approved
materials but shall not be assigned any landscape points for compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Special features may be assigned points by the Director of the
Department of Community Development in accordance with §
12-1104, Table 1, “Landscape Point Values,” of this chapter for features such
as fountains, ponds, statues, sculptures and benches when used in conjunction
with approved materials and are considered as an enhancement to the project
site.
   (F)   Landscaping points that may be assigned to non-live plant materials
and features is limited to 50% of the total required points. Additional non-
live plant materials and features shall not be assigned any landscape points
for compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   The developer shall be required to install an irrigation system to all
required landscape areas to ensure that sufficient water is delivered to plant
materials utilizing one or more of the following methods:
      (1)   An automatic or manual underground irrigation system (such as a
conventional spray, bubbler and the like) that is equipped with a rain and
freeze sensor (for points awarded);
      (2)   An automatic water-saving irrigation system (such as drip, porous
pipe, leaky pipes and the like) that is equipped with a rain and freeze sensor
(for points awarded); and/or
      (3)   Required landscape areas, including areas utilizing extreme drought
tolerant “xeriscape” plant materials may be irrigated with a hose attachment
located within 100 feet of all required plant materials (no points awarded).
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1108 MAINTENANCE OF LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain in
good condition all the improvements required by this chapter. Any required
landscaping components shall be maintained and repaired if those components
become damaged. Any vegetation that dies shall be replaced no later than the
following planting season (spring or fall).
   (B)   All development and property subject to the provisions of this chapter
shall be maintained by regular weeding, irrigation, fertilizing, mowing and
pruning of plant materials in conformance with good horticultural practices.
   (C)   All landscaping materials not properly maintained such that they
become overgrown, exhibit evidence of weed and/or pest infestation, or fall
into disrepair will be considered a public nuisance under the provisions of
this code and abated under the provisions therein.
   (D)   All required plant materials which are removed or perish for any
reason must be replaced with similar materials of greater than or equal point
value as the removed/perished materials as they were credited at the time of
planting.
   (E)   If Stage 3 water restrictions are invoked by the city per §
17-220, enforcement of the provisions of §
17-220 will be suspended during said restriction and for 120 days thereafter.
   (F)   When it is determined by the Community Development Director, or his or
her designee, that improvements required by this chapter are not being
maintained, it shall be his or her duty to give notice in writing to the
property owner in accordance with §
12-1110.
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1109 LANDSCAPE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time a building permit application is submitted for review, a
landscape plan, separate and apart from all other required plans, shall be
submitted and made part of the file.
   (A)   Landscape plans may be prepared as follows:
      (1)   By any person and/or developer provided the plan is limited to
plant specification and placement only;
      (2)   By a landscape architect that is registered in the state; or
      (3)   By a licensed architect or professional engineer that is licensed
in the state, provided the services are incidental to the performance of his or
her normal practice as an architect or engineer.
   (B)   All landscape plans shall include the following information:
      (1)   North arrow and scale;
      (2)   Location of existing property lines and dimensions of the tract
which is accurately drawn to scale;
      (3)   Exact locations and outline of rights-of-way, both existing and
proposed;
      (4)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings and parking areas.
Parking information shall include the exact number of parking spaces being
provided;
      (5)   Location and size of any permanent fixtures or structures,
including, but not limited to, sidewalks, walls, fences, trash enclosures,
storage areas, lighting fixtures, signage and benches/seating areas, which are
relevant to the landscape plan;
      (6)   Location, size and type of all above-ground and underground
utilities with notation, when appropriate, as to any safety hazards to avoid
during the installation of landscaping. Alternatively, a letter of no objection
may be provided by the utility company;
      (7)   Location, size, type, spacing (on center) and quantity of all
proposed plant materials and existing plant materials to remain for credit of
landscape points along with an appropriate key of all plant species given the
common and scientific name which shall be organized by type (example: ground
cover, shrub species, tree species) and the nature (example: evergreen,
deciduous);
      (8)   Method of irrigation on plans and defined area of coverage. If an
automatic irrigation system is not required, the location of all hose
connections and other watering sources shall be noted on the plans;
      (9)   All required screening, with reference to height and type of
construction;
      (10)   Calculation of the site and parking lot landscaping points
required for the development, including the square footage of the developed
area and number of parking spaces being provided; and
      (11)   A table listing all plant materials by scientific and common name,
size, type, quantity, point value and total landscaping points being provided.
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
§12-1110 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS.
   When it is determined by the city that improvements required by this chapter
are not being maintained, the city shall give notice in writing to the property
owner. Such notice shall specify in what manner the improvements are in need of
maintenance and a date by which compliance must be completed. The property
owner shall have not less than 30 days to comply with the notice. Any person
aggrieved by any such notice or disagreeing with any administrative decision or
requirements of a notice may file an appeal with the Board of Adjustments
within 30 days of receiving the notice. Failure to provide the improvements
required by this chapter or failure to maintain required improvements in the
manner prescribed by this chapter shall constitute an offense and violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1767, passed 6-27-2017)
PART 13: PUBLIC SAFETY
Chapter
   
1.    FIRE PREVENTION CODE
   
2.    FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
3.    POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
4.    EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
   
5.    UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
   
6.    UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR ADDRESS NAMING AND NUMBERING
CHAPTER 1: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
   
13-101   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
13-102   Enforcement
   
13-103   Definitions
   
13-104   Storage of flammable liquids prohibited
   
13-105   Bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases and explosives restricted
   
13-106   Modifications
   
13-107   Appeals
   
13-108   New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits
   
13-109   Penalty
   
13-110   Fire hydrant spacing for new construction
   
13-111   Smoke detectors
§13-101 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There are hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, certain codes known as the Fire Prevention Code, issued by the
National Fire Protection Association, to include the International Fire Code
and appendices B, C, D and E, Uniform Fire Code, Life Safety Code 101 and the
NFPA Code, being particularly the latest editions thereof and the whole
thereof, save and except such portions as may be hereinafter deleted, modified
or amended. At least one copy of said codes have been and now are filed in the
office of the City Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1230, passed 10-9-1984; Ord. 1795, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 1796, passed
12-10-2019; Ord. 1803, passed 12-10-2019)
§13-102 ENFORCEMENT.
   The codes hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Fire Marshal and the Chief
of the Fire Department or their designees.
§13-103 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of the Fire Code adopted in §
13-101, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Wherever the word JURISDICTION is used in the Fire Prevention Code hereby
adopted, it shall be held to mean the city. Whenever the words CORPORATION
COUNSEL are used in the Fire Prevention Code, they mean the Attorney for the
city. Where the word PERMIT appears in the Fire Prevention Code, it means prior
approval by the Fire Marshal, Fire Chief or their designees.
(Ord. 1230, passed 10-9-1984)
§13-104 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is
prohibited without approved I-3 zoning and prior approval by the Fire Marshal
and the Building Official.
   (B)   New bulk plants for flammable liquids are prohibited without approval
by the Fire Marshal and the Building Official.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit any such installations in existence as
of January 1, 1961.
§13-105 BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES AND EXPLOSIVES RESTRICTED.
   Bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas and storage of explosives and
blasting agents is prohibited, without approved I-3 zoning and prior approval
of the Fire Marshal and Building Official.
§13-106 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department, with the approval of the City
Manager, shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code and all codes indicated in § 13-101, upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there
are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon shall be entered upon the
records of the Department, and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
§13-107 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit, or whenever it is claimed that the
provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the
code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the City Manager, in
writing, within 30 days from the date of the decision of the Chief.
§13-108 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The City Manager, the Chief of the Fire Department, the Building Official
and the Fire Marshal shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after
giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials,
processes or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those
newly enumerated in the code. The Fire Marshal shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his or her office and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons.
§13-109 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the code adopted by this
chapter or fails to comply therewith or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed for such compliance, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as prescribed in § 1-108.
   (B)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time. When not
otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
§13-110 FIRE HYDRANT SPACING FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Fire hydrants shall be located at a maximum spacing of 300 feet in
mercantile and manufacturing districts and 500 feet in residential districts.
   (B)   In mercantile and manufacturing districts, fire hydrants shall be
located in such a manner that no hose line will exceed 300 feet to reach any
portion of the exterior of the building.
   (C)   A fire hydrant shall be located within 50 feet of all Fire Department
sprinkler connections.
(Ord. 1261, passed 1-13-1987)
§13-111 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   All existing hotels, motels, dormitories, apartments, lodging or
rooming houses, board and care facilities and one- and two-family dwellings,
that are leased or rented shall be protected with smoke detectors which are
listed or approved by a nationally recognized testing organization or
laboratory. Such detectors shall be an ionization or a photoelectric AC or DC
power supply type device. When activated, such detectors shall be suitable to
warn the occupants of the presence of smoke and the possibility of fire danger.
   (B)   Such detectors shall be provided and installed by the owner of all
leased or rented residential occupancies. Such detectors shall be maintained in
good working order by the owner.
   (C)   It is the duty of the occupants of apartments and one- or two-family
dwellings to maintain the smoke detector batteries.
   (D)   It is the duty of the occupant not to intentionally or negligently
interfere with or damage the detector or its proper functioning.
   (E)   Prior to the time of any transfer of ownership or when any
alterations, repairs or additions requiring a building permit and having a
valuation in excess of $1,000 occur, the owner of an existing single-family
dwelling not having an operable smoke detector shall install a minimum of one
approved smoke detector in the dwelling.
   (F)   The smoke detectors described in this section shall be installed as
herein provided before June 15, 1988.
(Ord. 1285, passed 5-10-1988)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
13-201   Fire Department created, Chief
   
13-202   Fire Chief
   
13-203   Additional duties and powers of Fire Chief
   
13-204   Duties
   
13-205   Use of fire equipment, inventory
   
13-206   Interference with Department
Article B. Service Outside City Limits
   
13-221   Authority and duty to render
   
13-222   Charges
   
13-223   Recall of apparatus
   
13-224   Firefighters considered as serving in regular line of duty
   
13-225   Department considered agent of state acting in governmental capacity
Article C. Open Burning
   
13-230   Burning permit required; application, fee
   
13-231   Conditions applicable to burning permits for development and
agriculture
   
13-232   Notice and approval to proceed
   
13-233   Special events
   
13-234   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-101 et seq.
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§13-201 FIRE DEPARTMENT CREATED, CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fire Department, the head of which is the
Chief of the Fire Department or Fire Chief, appointed by the City Manager for
an indefinite term.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIEF. The Chief of the Fire Department.
      DEPARTMENT. The Fire Department of the city.
§13-202 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief shall be at the head of the Department, subject to the
laws of the state, ordinances of this city and this chapter.
      (2)   The Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her.
   (B)   He or she shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To ensure that all Department members are trained in the latest and
updated technical aspects of firefighting;
      (2)   To inspect, or cause to be inspected by members of the Department,
the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least once
each year and other establishments or premises in the city as determined;
      (3)   To maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention
and fire protection and make use of it to the best advantage of all members of
the Department;
      (4)   To see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, notify proper authorities
and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the case;
      (5)   To direct firefighting operations and make every effort to attend
all major fires; and
      (6)   (a)   To file the appropriate activity report forms with the office
of the State Fire Marshal in Oklahoma City on an annual basis.
         (b)   The activity report forms shall be designed by the State Fire
Marshal and shall include, but not be limited to, the amount of property and
vehicle fire loss, types of fires, inspections and investigations.
         (c)   The report shall include notification of all fire-related
civilian deaths and injuries in the respective jurisdiction and of firefighter
deaths in the line of duty and of firefighter injuries in the line of duty
requiring the services of a hospital or physician or both.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 74 O.S. § 314
§13-203 ADDITIONAL DUTIES AND POWERS OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief shall have full power and command over all persons at fires and
may adopt any measures that he or she shall deem most advisable to extinguish
fires, or for the care and protection of property endangered thereby, and shall
have power to summon any and all persons present to his or her aid in
extinguishing any fire or caring for personal property in case of fire.
§13-204 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to, persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and, unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and safety of persons
from fire and explosions in theaters, stores and other public buildings.
§13-205 USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT, INVENTORY.
   (A)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department. No person shall
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless authorized
by the Chief.
   (B)   The Chief shall prepare and keep a complete inventory of all property
belonging to the Fire Department and shall at the expiration of his or her term
turn over such inventory and all such property to his or her successor,
together with all books, records, reports and data of the Department.
§13-206 INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with the Fire Department or any
officer or employee thereof in the proper discharge of its or his or her
official duties.
ARTICLE B. SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
§13-221 AUTHORITY AND DUTY TO RENDER.
   (A)   The Fire Department is hereby authorized and empowered to render fire
protection, fire prevention and rescue operations for individuals, firms,
private corporations or associations or political subdivisions of the state
located outside the corporate limits of the city and to provide fire protection
jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   The Fire Department is authorized to answer calls outside the city
limits unless, in the discretion of the Fire Chief or his or her designees:
      (1)   The fire equipment is in use within the city limits to the extent
that it is unwise to send equipment or personnel to answer calls beyond the
city limits;
      (2)   It would be unwise to answer such calls because of broken
equipment, impassable or dangerous highways or other physical conditions or
city policies; or
      (3)   It would not be to the best interest of the city because of lack of
manpower.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-106 through 29-108
§13-222 CHARGES.
   (A)   Any contract for fire protection or prevention services to be rendered
by the Fire Department for an individual owner, firm, private corporation or
association outside the city limits shall provide for payment to the city at a
rate per hour as set by the Council by motion or resolution for time away from
the fire station per call.
   (B)   Such rate shall be charged for each piece of equipment, such as fire
truck, engine, hose wagon, ladder wagon or any other piece of equipment
furnished by the city.
   (C)   All monies received from such calls shall go into the General Fund of
the city, to be used for operation and maintenance of the city government.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-106 through 29-108
§13-223 RECALL OF APPARATUS.
   The Fire Department shall be empowered to recall any or all fire apparatus
which is outside the city limits pursuant to this provision at any time, if in
the judgment of the officer in charge, it is wise and expedient to do so for
the further protection of property within the city limits, regardless of
whether the outside fire is extinguished or not, and in such case, the city
shall not be responsible for failure of the Fire Department to completely
extinguish the fire.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-106 through 29-108
§13-224 FIREFIGHTERS CONSIDERED AS SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY.
   (A)   All firefighters of the Fire Department attending and serving at fires
or doing fire prevention work or rescue work outside the corporate limits of
the city as provided for in this article shall be considered as serving in
their regular line of duty as fully as if they were serving within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Such firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any pension
and relief fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention or
rescue operation was being done within the corporate limits of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 28-107 and 29-106 through 29-108
§13-225 DEPARTMENT CONSIDERED AGENT OF STATE ACTING IN GOVERNMENTAL CAPACITY.
   The Fire Department, when answering any fire alarm or call or performing any
fire prevention service or rescue operation outside the corporate limits of the
city pursuant to the provisions of this article, shall be considered an agent
of the state and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and the
city shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission or
negligence while answering or returning from any fire or reported fire, or
doing any fire prevention work or rescue operation under and by virtue of this
article.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-106 through 29-108
ARTICLE C. OPEN BURNING
§13-230 BURNING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall set fire to or burn any trees,
brush, grass and other vegetable matter in the clearing of land for
agricultural crop management or land development without having obtained a
permit therefor from the Fire Chief or his or her designated representative.
Application for permit shall be made on such form as specified by the Fire
Chief upon payment to the office of the City Clerk of an application fee as set
by the City Council.
   (B)   Persons with ownership of property the size of which is an individual
lot of five acres or more desires to conduct and burn of vegetation may apply
for a two-week open burn permit. Application for permit shall be made on such
form as specified by the Fire Chief upon payment to the office of the City
Clerk of an application fee as established by the City Council and the
inspection of the burn site by the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   (C)   Additional burn sites may be applied for, on the same tract of land
upon payment of application fee as established by the City Council for each
additional burning site, however only one burn site is allowable per five acres
and must be at least 500 feet from the nearest residence, business structure
and neighboring property other than the property on which the burning is to be
conducted. The burn sites must also be 500 feet from all other burn sites when
issued more than one permit for the purpose of more than five acres.
   (D)   If the applicant has a substantial amount of trees, brush or grass to
burn off then the city will send a brush truck for standby upon the applicant’s
request. However the applicant must pay a minimum of eight hours’ usage fee for
a brush truck and three personnel at the current rate. If the brush
accumulation is larger than the required dimensions of a burn fuel site a pit
will be required to burn the fuel in. The size or amount of the fuel at the
burn site will determine what can be burned at the discretion of the Fire Chief
or designee. Therefore, item 7 of the open burn permit can be the only item
excluded.
(Ord. 1712, passed 11-12-2012)
§13-231 CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO BURNING PERMITS FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
AGRICULTURE.
   The burning of trees, brush, grass and other vegetable matter shall be
permitted only for the clearing of land for development and agricultural
management and in compliance with the following conditions.
   (A)   General written standards shall be established by the Fire Chief
providing for fire safety and site maintenance. The Fire Chief or his or her
designee may invalidate any permit if written fire safety and maintenance
standards are not met or if the Fire Department responds to an uncontrollable
fire due to burning at a permitted site on the property.
   (B)   Burning will not be allowed when wind is over ten mph.
   (C)   There must be 20 feet of protective clearance area around the burn
site.
   (D)   Burning time is from one hour after sunrise to three hours before
sunset and additional fuel may not be intentionally added to the fire at times
outside the limits stated above.
   (E)   Fire extinguishing equipment must be on the premises at each burning
site, during burning, i.e., extinguisher, buckets of water, water hose and the
like. Any open burning shall be constantly attended until the fire is
extinguished.
   (F)   The burning permit will be valid for 14 calendar days beginning the
day it was issued.
   (G)   (1)   Size of burn. Size of the burn site fuel shall not be larger
than ten feet wide by ten feet in length by ten feet high, from ground surface.
Upon request of a land developer and for good cause shown the burn permit may
allow a burn pit of 15 feet wide by 15 feet in length by ten feet high,
however, there must be at least two individuals present to monitor the burn.
      (2)   Subdivisions and land developers. Persons clearing and developing
land for residential or commercial purposes upon obtaining a burn permit shall
be allowed to have a burn site on every five acres consisting of three pits not
larger than 20 feet wide by 20 feet in length by 20 feet high, so long as the
following conditions are complied with.
         (a)   Each pit is 100 feet from other pits.
         (b)   There must be a minimum of 200 feet of clearance from any
structure, improvement or adjacent property lines.
         (c)   A bulldozer and tanker truck must be on site with two full-time
employees/workers monitoring the burn at all times.
         (d)   Subdivisions and land developers clearing property on 15 acres
or larger may utilize burn piles. However, the same restrictions will apply for
each five acre tracts with the exception that one bulldozer will be required
for each 15-acre tract.
   (H)   The location of burning must be at least 500 feet from all residences
or any business structures other than those located on the property on which
the burning is conducted.
   (I)   Any petroleum-based product or similar materials which produce
unreasonable amounts of air contaminants may not be burned. If the burning is
offensive or a nuisance due to smoke or odor emissions the permit holder must
extinguish immediately.
   (J)   The Fire Chief, or designated representative, shall inspect the site
of the proposed burning in the presence of the applicant and may make such
requirements as necessary and appropriate to prevent the spread of any
permitted burning, including, but not limited to, provision of firebreaks as a
condition of permit approval. In the event that such conditions are provided,
verification of compliance shall be a condition of approval to proceed as
required below.
   (K)   The holder of the burn permit must provide to the city with (at the
time the permit is issued) a $10,000 permit bond or verification of liability
insurance in an amount of not less than $100,000, with said bond or insurance
being subject to lien for any and all damages resulting from said open burning
permit.
   (L)   Any person that violates any provisions contained within this section
can be prosecuted in the municipal court within the city. Any person convicted
of violating any provision in this section may be fined as provided in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1713, passed 12-11-2012)
§13-232 NOTICE AND APPROVAL TO PROCEED.
   The holder of a burn permit(s) shall contact the communication center and
have them inform the shift commander on each and every day of proposed burning
and shall not proceed with said burning unless the shift commander verifies the
prevailing wind direction and speed as appropriate to any terms and conditions
set forth in the permit.
(Ord. 1675, passed 5-26-2009)
§13-233 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   When there is a special event that would involve outdoor burning such as a
bonfire or an outdoor recreational fire, the guidelines will be specifically
for the special event. Stipulations include a pit or small retaining wall that
will be used as the perimeter for the burn site. This will be for a one-time
burn event. The permit holder will be completely responsible for any and all
damage caused by the fire.
   (A)   Bonfires.
      (1)   Cannot be larger than eight feet wide, eight feet in length and
eight feet high.
      (2)   Must be at least 50 feet from a structure other than those located
on the property and five feet from combustible material.
   (B)   Recreational fires.
      (1)   Cannot be larger than three feet wide, three feet in length and two
feet high.
      (2)   Must be at least 15 feet from a structure other than those located
on the property and three feet from combustible material.
   (C)   Extinguishment.
      (1)   Fires shall be constantly attended until the fire is extinguished.
The minimum of one portable fire extinguisher, not less than a 4-A rating or
other approved extinguishment such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or
water truck, shall always be available at the site.
      (2)   If for any reason the smoke or odor emissions become a nuisance or
offensive the permit holder must extinguish immediately.
   (D)   Permit fee. No cost.
(Ord. 1675, passed 5-26-2009)
§13-234 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article, or terms of an
approved burn permit shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of $750.
(Ord. 1675, passed 5-26-2009)
CHAPTER 3: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
13-301   Police Department created; Chief
   
13-302   Duties
   
13-303   Not to mistreat or interfere with police dogs
   
13-304   Mutual aid agreements
§13-301 POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   There is a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of Police,
appointed by the City Manager for an indefinite term. The Chief of Police is an
officer of the city and has supervision and control of the Police Department.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 34-101 et seq.
§13-302 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on view or
on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the city and
the charter; to suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may
come to their knowledge and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants,
writs, executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them;
to apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by
law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to
perform all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers.
§13-303 NOT TO MISTREAT OR INTERFERE WITH POLICE DOGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously torture,
torment, beat, kick, strike, injure, disable or kill any dog used by the Police
Department of the city in the performance of the functions or duties of such
Department, or to interfere with or meddle with any such dog while being used
by the Department or any officer or member.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
§13-304 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   Approval is given for service of members of the regular Police Department of
this city as police officers of any other city or town in an emergency
situation in the state, not more than 100 miles distant from this city, when
such service is requested by the Mayor or Chief of Police of the city or town.
Requests for service under this section shall be made in writing or by
telephone, or other means of communication, to the Mayor or City Manager, who,
if he or she determines that the request can be granted consistently with the
continuance of the proper police protection to the inhabitants of this city,
shall direct the Chief of Police to furnish the number of officers requested
and to arrange for their transportation to the requesting municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 34-103
CHAPTER 4: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
13-401   Definitions
   
13-402   Plan development; agreement with county
   
13-403   City authority
   
13-404   Nonliability of city
   
13-405   Emergency interim successors
   
13-406   Enforcement of state executive orders and declarations of state of
local emergencies; penalties
§13-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. Any occasion or instance for which, in the determination of the
president of the United States or the Governor of Oklahoma, or the Mayor,
federal, state or county assistance is needed to supplement the city’s efforts
and capabilities to save lives and to protect property and public health and
safety, or to lessen or avert threat of a catastrophe within the city.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the coordination of all
emergency functions by organized and trained persons, who will extend existent
governmental functions and provide other necessary nongovernmental functions,
to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from natural or
human-made disasters developing to such an extent to cause an extreme emergency
situation to arise which by declaration of the Mayor of the city jeopardizes
the welfare of the citizens of the city. These emergency functions include, but
are not limited to, firefighting, law enforcement, medical and health, search
and rescue, public works, warnings, communications, hazardous materials and
other special response functions, evacuations of persons from affected areas,
emergency assistance services, emergency transportation and other functions
related to preparedness, response, recovery and mitigation.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The plan which sets forth the organization,
administration and functions for emergency management by the city.
   HAZARD MITIGATION. Any cost-effective measure which will reduce or eliminate
the effects of a natural or human-made disaster.
   HUMAN-MADE DISASTER. A disaster caused by acts of humans, including, but not
limited to, an act of war, terrorism, chemical spill or release, or power
shortages that require assistance from outside the city.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any natural catastrophe, including, but not limited to, a
tornado, severe storm, high water, floodwaters, wind driven water, earthquake,
landslide, mudslide, snowstorm or drought which causes damage of sufficient
severity and magnitude to warrant hazard mitigation or the use of resources
from outside the city to alleviate damage, loss, hardship or suffering caused
thereby.
   SIGNIFICANT EVENTS. All hazardous material releases of any size and type,
earthquakes, fires involving large buildings or facilities and large grass or
wild fires, explosions, bomb threats, terrorist/civil disturbance, aircraft
crash, natural disaster, utility disruption, dam breach, technological/human-
made incident, search and rescue, structural collapse and any other incident
that poses significant consequences to the city.
   UNAVAILABLE. Absent from the place of session, other than on official
business of the city, or unable, for physical, mental or legal reasons, to
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of Mayor, Vice Mayor or designated
employee.
(Ord. 1725, passed 7-22-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 63 O.S. § 683.3
§13-402 PLAN DEVELOPMENT; AGREEMENT WITH COUNTY.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall develop an emergency management program in
accordance with the State Emergency Management Act, being 63 O.S. §§ 683.1 et
seq., as amended.
      (2)   The city is authorized to enter into an emergency management
services agreement with the Board of County Commissioners, for the county to
provide emergency management services, and an emergency operations plan.
   (B)   Further, that the County Emergency Management Director shall develop
an emergency operations plan in accordance with existing federal, state and
local statutes, including the State Emergency Management Act, as well as the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. §§
5121 through 5207. The plan shall be reviewed annually.
(Ord. 1725, passed 7-22-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see 63 O.S. § 683.11
§13-403 CITY AUTHORITY.
   In carrying out the provisions of this chapter, in which any disaster as
defined in §
13-401 occurs, the Mayor shall have the authority to declare an emergency and
the power to enter into contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat
such disaster, protecting the health and safety of persons and property, and
providing emergency assistance to the victims of such disaster. The city is
authorized to exercise the powers vested under this section in the light of the
exigencies of the extreme emergency situation without regard to time consuming
procedures and formalities prescribed by law, excepting mandatory
constitutional requirements, pertaining to the performance of public work,
entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase of supplies and
materials and the appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
(Ord. 1725, passed 7-22-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see 63 O.S. §§ 683.1 et seq.
§13-404 NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   Neither the city, nor any officer or employee of the city, nor a volunteer
whose services have been accepted and utilized by an officer or employee of the
city for carrying out the functions of this chapter, shall be civilly liable
for any loss or injury resulting to any person’s company, corporation or other
legal entity as a result of any decision, determination, order or action of
such employee or volunteer in the performance of assigned duties and
responsibilities under this chapter during a stated emergency unless such loss
or injury was caused by the gross negligence, or willfully and unnecessarily or
by the wanton act of such officer or employee or volunteer. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to waive the sovereignty or immunity of the city
from being sued.
(Ord. 1725, passed 7-22-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see 63 O.S. § 683.17
§13-405 EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSORS.
   (A)   In carrying out the provisions of this chapter, in which any disaster,
as defined in §
13-401, occurs, in the event the Mayor is unavailable, as defined in §
13-401, then his or her emergency interim successor shall be the Vice Mayor and
he or she shall exercise all powers and duties of the Mayor’s office. In the
event both the Mayor and Vice Mayor are unavailable, as defined in §
13-401, the next emergency interim successor shall be the Director of the
Department of Public Safety, and he or she shall exercise all powers and duties
of the Mayor’s office. In the event the Mayor, Vice Mayor and Director of the
Department of Public Safety are unavailable, as defined in §
13-401, the next emergency interim successor shall be the Chief of Police, and
he or she shall exercise all powers and duties of the Mayor’s office.
   (B)   An emergency interim successor shall exercise these powers and
discharge these duties only until such time as the lawful incumbent officer or
an emergency interim successor higher in rank in order of succession exercises,
or resumes the exercise of, the powers and discharge of the duties of the
office, or until, where an actual vacancy exists, a successor is appointed to
fill such vacancy or is elected and qualified as provided by law.
(Ord. 1725, passed 7-22-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 63 O.S. § 686.3
§13-406 ENFORCEMENT OF STATE EXECUTIVE ORDERS AND DECLARATIONS OF STATE OF
LOCAL EMERGENCIES: PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions, by action or inaction, of any
restrictions set forth in a state executive order or a declaration of a state
of local emergency, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be prosecuted by
the issuance and filing of a citation in Municipal Court.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter will be enforced by city police
officers, the City Attorney, Code Enforcement Officials or any other officer or
employee designated by the City Manager.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, business owner or employee, upon the first violation
of a state executive order or a declaration of state of local emergency, will
receive a written warning of the violation. The warning shall include a copy of
the executive order and/or the declaration of state of local emergency, so that
the person can become familiar with the restrictions contained in the order or
proclamation.
      (2)   Any person, business owner or employee charged with a second
violation of a state executive order or a declaration of state of local
emergency, within six months of receiving a written warning, upon a finding of
guilt or the entering of a guilty or no contest plea, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $200.
      (3)   Any person, business owner or employee, charged with a third or
subsequent violation of a state executive order or a declaration of state of
local emergency, within six months of receiving a written warning, upon a
finding of guilt or the entering of a guilty or no contest plea, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment for a period not
to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1806, passed 4-2-2020)
CHAPTER 5: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
Section
   
13-501   Complete record required
   
13-502   Disposition of unclaimed property
   
13-503   Exchange of unclaimed or confiscated weapons
   
13-504   Property of deceased persons
   
13-505   Property found by a private person
   
13-506   Recovery by owner
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 15 O.S. §§ 511 et seq. and 22 O.S. §§ 1321 et seq.
and 1261 et seq.
§13-501 COMPLETE RECORD REQUIRED.
   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the Chief
of Police. The Chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found; and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
§13-502 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals or weapons, which
remains in the possession of the Chief of Police, unclaimed, or the ownership
of which is not to him or her satisfactorily established, for a period of 90
days, shall be sold, and the proceeds of the sale shall be paid over to the
City Treasurer, who shall issue his or her receipt therefor, and deposit the
same to the credit of the General Fund of the city, except such personal
property as in the opinion of the City Manager can be more advantageously used
by some department or office of the city government. Ten days before a sale of
such unclaimed property, the Chief of Police shall sign and have posted in a
conspicuous place in the City Treasurer’s office, where it will be plainly
visible to persons who visit that office, notice of the time, place and manner
of such sale and general description of the property to be sold. However, if in
the opinion of the City Manager, all or any portion of the personal property
may be more advantageously used in any city department or office, he or she
shall so instruct the Chief of Police in writing, and the Chief shall thereupon
deliver the personal property designated to that department or office of city
government and make a permanent record of its disposition.
§13-503 EXCHANGE OF UNCLAIMED OR CONFISCATED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Unclaimed or confiscated weapons which have been in the possession of
the Police Department for 120 days or more may be traded by the Chief of
Police, with the approval of the City Manager or his or her designee, for new
weapons for use by the Police Department. The unclaimed or confiscated weapons
may only be traded to such gun dealers who have complied with applicable state
and federal regulations concerning firearms and, in the opinion of the Chief of
Police and the City Manager or his or her designee, are reputable.
   (B)   In trading such unclaimed or confiscated weapons, the Chief of Police
shall, with the approval of the City Manager or his or her designee, advertise
for bids for such trade. Such advertisement for bids shall be done in
accordance with prevailing and established bid procedure as formulated by the
purchasing entity of the city; however, in no case may the fair market value of
the weapons received in such trade exceed $2,500, unless such trade is
accomplished pursuant to formal bid procedure.
   (C)   The value of such unclaimed and confiscated weapons as hereinabove
discussed shall in all cases be determined by their fair market value of the
new weapons received in such trade.
§13-504 PROPERTY OF DECEASED PERSONS.
   (A)   The personal property of a deceased person shall be delivered only to
the next of kin of such person or to the legally appointed representative of
his or her estate. If the personal property is claimed by the legally appointed
representative of the estate of the deceased, a certified copy of the order of
the district court appointing such person shall be deemed sufficient authority
to support the claim. If the personal property is claimed by the next of kin,
the claimant shall furnish an affidavit to the effect that he or she is the
person entitled to possession of the property. The affidavit shall be deemed
sufficient authority to support the claim.
   (B)   If personal property of the deceased person remains unclaimed for a
period of 90 days, it shall be disposed of in the appropriate manner provided
in this chapter.
§13-505 PROPERTY FOUND BY A PRIVATE PERSON.
   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within 30 days, shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or her, and a record
of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return of the
property to him or her within such additional ten days, then the Chief of
Police shall sell the property as if it had been found by a public official or
employee, or on instruction by the City Manager deliver it to some department
or office of the city government for its use.
§13-506 RECOVERY BY OWNER.
   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the City Council.
CHAPTER 6: UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR ADDRESS NAMING AND NUMBERING
Section
   
13-601   Purpose and intent
   
13-602   Jurisdiction
   
13-603   Numbering system
   
13-604   Street name signs
   
13-605   Definitions
   
13-606   Naming city streets
   
13-607   Renaming existing streets
   
13-608   Addressing
   
13-609   Display of address numbers
   
13-610   New address assignment
   
13-611   Administrator
   
13-612   Amendments
   
13-613   Mayor and Council’s review
   
13-614   Variances and exceptions
   
13-615   Appeals
   
13-616   Enforcement
   
13-617   Limitation of liability
   
13-618   Separability
§13-601 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide a uniform system of
addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the city’s jurisdiction
in order to facilitate adequate public safety and decrease emergency response
time.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-602 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter includes the entire geographic area of the
city limits. The City of Duncan Lakes is included in this chapter.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-603 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Frontage unit (standard interval) shall be assigned for every 5.28
feet of ground whether improved property or vacant lot on every street within
the entire geographical area of the city.
   (B)   Even numbers shall always be on the south and east side of the street
and odd numbers shall always be on the north and west side of the street.
   (C)   There should be no use of fractional addresses, alphanumeric address
numbers, nor hyphenated address numbers.
   (D)   Diagonal streets should be treated as either north-south or east-west
streets.
   (E)   When assigning numbers to corner lots, use the driveway.
   (F)   Apartments and other multi-tenant structures should be numbered with
the main building and then assigned apartment numbers as secondary location
indicators (e.g., 202 W. Main St., Apt. 303, this indicates the apartment is on
the third floor). If a building has a separate entrance for each unit, then
each entrance will receive an address.
   (G)   Businesses and business districts should be numbered just as
apartments, with the middle of the building determining the number and the
offices or businesses in the building being numbered as suites. Office parks
may also have one primary address number along with a building number and/or
suite number.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-604 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs shall be assigned and installed for all streets, whether
public or private and at all intersections throughout the city.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-605 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE LINE. The lines which divide the city into identifiable sectors and
which follow prominent major thoroughfares. In each case, one BASE LINE runs
east/west and the other one, north/south. BASE LINES intersect at a reference
point.
   DRIVEWAYS. A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting a
public street, private street, easement or private right-of-way, given access
from that public street, private street or private right-of-way leading to a
building, use or structure on that lot.
   FRONTAGE UNIT. A standard interval in feet used to assign consecutive
property numbers on a street. The standard front unit adopted for use
throughout the city is 5.28 feet.
   OFFICIAL STREET NAMES. The street list name and the street map name on file
with the city’s 911 Addressing Office is hereby declared the official street
names and map for the city streets, unless changed by action of the Mayor and
Council.
   PRIVATE STREET. Any street, which is not maintained by the city through the
use of public funds.
   REFERENCE POINT. The reference point for the city’s addressing system is
hereby designated at the point of the intersection of Main Street (north and
south) and 1st Street (east and west).
   STREET. A public or private one-way or two-way street for ingress and/or
egress. Such street may be of various types, including streets, rear access
streets, streets with culs-de-sac and dead-end streets. The definition includes
secondary streets, but does not include driveways.
   STREET ADDRESS. The combination of numbers and street names assigned to a
particular location by the city’s 911 Addressing Office, according to this
chapter, which uniquely identifies a particular location.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-606 NAMING CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Names tending to be confused as homonyms, having the same or similar
pronunciation but with different spellings are discouraged.
   (B)   Avoid sound alike names (e.g., Bay View and Bayview).
   (C)   Do not use special characters in road names, such as hyphens,
apostrophes or dashes.
   (D)   Avoid the use of standard suffixes or directional suffixes or prefixes
as road names (e.g., North Blvd., Court St.)
   (E)   Avoid duplication of street names.
   (F)   If two or more streets have duplicate or confusing names the policy
for renaming existing streets must be considered.
   (G)   A street name combination (prefix, primary name and suffix) should be
used only once, and may not be used in any other alignment (e.g., Jones Drive,
Jones Circle, Jones Court and Jones Street).
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-607 RENAMING EXISTING STREETS.
   (A)   In the case of two or more conflicting street names the city will take
into consideration the older recognized name, number of addresses on each
street, arterial street, historical relevance, existing street signs,
relatedness to the city.
   (B)   The City Address Coordinator will notify the residents of a street
name conflict. Those residents will then have 30 days to provide street name
requests. The Address Coordinator shall determine the new street name and
notify the residents and the United States Postal Service.
   (C)   Request for new names and name changes must include a completed
petition signed by at least 50% plus one of the residents along the affected
street. If there are not two addressable structures on the road the address
will be assigned off the main road. The only exception is in subdevelopments.
   (D)   The city’s 911 Addressing Office must approve petitions to name
unnamed streets or to change a street name.
   (E)   Petition to change a street name must include a fee of $50 per sign
blade to cover cost of replacing signs in addition to $150 to advertise public
hearings. If the City Community Development Director does not approve the
request, only the sign cost will be refunded.
   (F)   The Community Development Director shall consider petitions for street
name changes annually during the first quarter. However, once a street has been
named, the street cannot be repetitioned again until the second calendar year
after the name has been approved.
   (G)   There is no fee for requesting names for unnamed public or private
streets; however the procedure is the same.
   (H)   Petition applications may be obtained from the city’s 911 Addressing
Office, 18 S. 7th Street Duncan, Oklahoma.
   (I)   The City 911 Addressing Coordinator will review requests to determine
if all procedures are met, and to ascertain that the proposed names do not
duplicate an existing name and also to ensure that the petition meets all other
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-608 ADDRESSING.
   (A)   All streets both public and private shall be named and addressed if it
is greater than 800 feet in length and/or has two or more addressable
structures, including mobile homes, located on and accessed by them, or if the
structure is not visible from the public road.
   (B)   When each house or building has been assigned its respective address,
the city, in cooperation with the U.S. Postal Service shall notify the owners
or occupant’s agents of affected house or building by letter, or by telephone
advising of their new address.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-609 DISPLAY OF ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   The official address number must be displayed on the front of a
building or at the entrance of the building, which is most clearly visible from
the street or road during both day and night.
   (B)   If a building is more than 100 feet from any street, the address
number shall be displayed at the end of the driveway or easement nearest the
street, which provides access to the building.
   (C)   Numerals indicating the address number of a single-family dwelling
shall be at least four inches in height and shall be posted and maintained so
as to be legible from the road.
   (D)   Numerals for multiple dwelling units and nonresidential buildings
shall be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the
building facing the street or on the end of the building nearest the street.
   (E)   Numerals must be of contrasting color to the background.
   (F)   (1)   Mobile home lots shall have sequential address numbers
throughout the park. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned.
      (2)   The address number of each lot must be clearly displayed on the lot
by being attached to a post on the lot or to the mobile home consistent with
division (A) above.
      (3)   No unit designator shall be allowed in the address of mobile homes.
   (G)   The address shall be placed on existing buildings within 30 days from
the date of the letter of notification.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-610 NEW ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   The owner or occupant or person in charge of any house, trailer or
building in need of an address in the city shall apply through the city’s 911
Addressing Office.
   (B)   The application for a 911 address shall be obtained at such time that
the owner, builder or mobile home company applies for a permit from the City
Planning Department. The applicant must mark the driveway with a flag until the
address is obtained. If the driveway is already cut, then no flag will be
needed. This applies to all address locations.
   (C)   Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any principal
building erected or repaired after the effective date of this chapter shall be
withheld until a permanent and proper address has been displayed in accordance
with the requirements outlined in this chapter. This will be strictly enforced.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-611 ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Addressing Coordinator is hereby designated Administrator of this
chapter and shall have authority to verify, modify or assign addresses and to
enforce the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Administrator shall assign and maintain a record of all addresses
for the city.
   (C)   The Administrator shall maintain a database of existing street names,
such that duplication and sound-alike street names are neither assigned nor
approved.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-612 AMENDMENTS.
   Petitions for amendment of this chapter may be filed with the City Manager
by any citizen of the city.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-613 MAYOR AND COUNCIL’S REVIEW.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council, according to the following procedure, may
amend the provisions and requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   No amendment shall become effective unless it has been proposed
by or shall have been reviewed by the City Addressing Coordinator.
      (2)   The City 911 Addressing Coordinator shall have 45 days in which to
review the proposed amendment and to make the recommendations to Mayor and
Council.
      (3)   If the Mayor and Council fail to report within 45 days, it shall be
deemed to have approved the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-614 VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Community Development Director may issue variances and exceptions
from the requirements of this chapter such that would not be contrary to the
public interest, or the spirit and intent of this chapter, and where due to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
would result in unnecessary hardship. In granting a variance, the Community
Development Director may prescribe appropriate solutions, as it deems necessary
to preserve the intent of this chapter. In granting a variance or exception to
this chapter, Community Development Director may determine the following:
   (A)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the
street naming or addressing involved and which are not applicable to other
streets or addresses;
   (B)   The literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other citizens;
   (C)   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of
the applicant; and
   (D)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any
special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other citizens.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-615 APPEALS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety and general
welfare. Wherever the requirements of this chapter differ with the requirements
of any other adopted city, state or federal regulations, the most restrictive
or that imposing the highest standard shall govern.
   (B)   Any and all appeals shall be heard by the City Attorney or Assistant
City Attorney. The City Attorney or Assistant City Attorney shall have the
discretion to administratively adjust the requirements consistent with the
purpose of equity. Any appeal or variance determination of the City Attorney or
Assistant City Attorney shall be considered administratively final.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-616 ENFORCEMENT.
   After the effective date of this chapter, any person, firm or agent thereof
that intentionally violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, for
the conviction of which, the maximum penalty by law may be imposed. Each day’s
continuing violation is a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-617 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The city, directors, officers and agents are not liable for any damages in a
civil action for injuries, death or loss to persons or property incurred by any
person as a result of any act or omission of any of its employees, directors,
officers or agents, except for willful or wanton misconduct, in connection with
developing, adopting, implementing, maintaining or operating any 911 system.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
§13-618 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to
be invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not affect this chapter as a
whole, or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 1766, passed 3-14-2017)
PART 14: STREETS AND PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
1.    USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
   
2.    OPENINGS IN STREETS
   
3.    USE OF STREETS IN BUILDING
   
4.    STRUCTURES UNDER AND ABOVE STREETS AND ALLEYS
   
5.    PARADES
   
6.    DRIVEWAY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1: USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
Section
   
14-101   Street Department; Superintendent
   
14-102   Trees and shrubbery to be trimmed
   
14-103   Unlawful to injure trees and shrubbery
   
14-104   Dead trees to be removed
   
14-105   Unlawful to obstruct sidewalks, streets with merchandise
   
14-106   Unlawful to obstruct unduly sidewalks and streets
   
14-107   Unlawful to deposit trash upon streets or sidewalks
   
14-108   Playing and congregating on streets; noise; interference
   
14-109   Unnecessary obstruction
   
14-110   Certain vehicles and objects prohibited
   
14-111   Building fire on paved street prohibited
   
14-112   Walking, driving or riding on streets being paved
   
14-113   Loads on vehicles, falling objects prohibited
   
14-114   Certain things not to be deposited on streets; exceptions
   
14-115   Vehicles not to be washed on street
   
14-116   Water from filling stations and other businesses
   
14-117   Owner or occupant not to permit sidewalk or sidewalk area to become a
hazard
   
14-118   Street not to be obstructed so as to interfere with drainage
   
14-119   Excavations adjoining streets
   
14-120   Duty to keep sidewalk and gutter clean, good repair
§14-101 STREET DEPARTMENT; SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be a Street Department, the head of which shall be
the Street Superintendent, appointed by the City Manager for an indefinite
term.
      (2)   Subject to supervision and control by the Public Works Director,
the Street Superintendent shall have supervision and control of the Street
Department.
   (B)   It is the duty of the Street Department, among others, to construct,
repair, maintain and improve streets, alleys and other public ways.
§14-102 TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO BE TRIMMED.
   (A)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this city shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than 13 feet above the roadway of a street or alley,
nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in this section, after receiving five days’ notice
from the head of the department in charge of streets to do so, shall be guilty
of an offense against the city. Every day that the owner or occupant shall
fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of
the five days’ notice, shall be a separate offense.
   (C)   Trimming of trees and shrubbery to permit the proper stringing or
passage of utility or other wires or the trimming to maintain proper clearance
for existing wires is specifically authorized and such trimming shall not be
considered a wrongful injury.
(Ord. 1293, passed 11-14-1989)
§14-103 UNLAWFUL TO INJURE TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the city; provided, that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
§14-104 DEAD TREES TO BE REMOVED.
   The owner, tenant or agent in charge of any property or premises within the
city shall remove or destroy all trees and shrubs upon the property or premises
or from any street or alley directly adjoining and on that side of the line
extending along the center of such street or alley next to the property or
premises as soon as such tree or shrub shall die.
§14-105 UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS, STREETS WITH MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or permit
to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, rights-of-way, streets and alleys of
the city any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction,
and leave same thereon or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or
trade.
§14-106 UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT UNDULY SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the city in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the city in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
§14-107 UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the city any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
§14-108 PLAYING AND CONGREGATING ON STREETS; NOISE; INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful and an offense against the city, for any person to obstruct
the free, convenient and normal use of any public sidewalk, street, highway,
bridge, alley, road or other passageway, or the entrance, corridor or passage
of any public building or structure by impeding, hindering, stifling, retarding
or restraining traffic or passage thereon or therein after having been
requested by a police officer to move on.
Cross-reference:
   Loud noise or music, permit, see § 10-310
§14-109 UNNECESSARY OBSTRUCTION.
   Any person who shall unnecessarily obstruct any sidewalk or any street or
alley, walk or public ground within the city with any boxes, barrels, vehicles,
animals, lumber, wood or any material or structure whatever, or shall ride or
drive over and upon any sidewalk of the city, or dig any hole in the same,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and be punished as herein provided.
§14-110 CERTAIN VEHICLES AND OBJECTS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to drive or move on any street or alley any vehicle or object
which injures or would injure the surface of the street or alley.
§14-111 BUILDING FIRE ON PAVED STREET PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to build any fire or place any hot substance
upon any paved street, alley, sidewalk or thoroughfare, or any portion thereof.
For the purpose of this section, PAVED STREET, ALLEY, SIDEWALK OR THOROUGHFARE
is to be construed to include any street, alley, sidewalk or thoroughfare the
surface of which is paved or covered with pavement of any kind or character.
§14-112 WALKING, DRIVING OR RIDING ON STREETS BEING PAVED.
   (A)   All persons are hereby prohibited from walking, riding or driving
upon, across or over any part of any street, alley or sidewalk in the city
while such part thereof is being paved, surfaced, excavated or repaired.
   (B)   The city shall follow guidelines of the Manual On Uniform Traffic
Control Devices pertaining to street, alley and/or sidewalk closures.
§14-113 LOADS ON VEHICLES, FALLING OBJECTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, alley or other
public way unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping
therefrom.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street, alley or other public way any
vehicle with any load unless the load and any covering thereon is securely
fastened so as to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or
in any manner a hazard to other users of the street, alley or other public way.
Any vehicle loaded with trash, tree limbs, garbage, sand, cinders, dirt, rock,
debris or any other loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason
of wind or movement of the vehicle shall have the load covered with a tarpaulin
or securely fastened with tie downs so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of
the load or any part thereof from the vehicle.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to work done on any street, alley or
other public way under the direction of the city.
§14-114 CERTAIN THINGS NOT TO BE DEPOSITED ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place any lighted cigarette, cigar,
ashes, or other flaming or glowing substance or any substance or things which
may cause a fire; or any bottles, tin cans, paper cups, paper napkins, straws,
newspaper or other trash, garbage or debris of any kind or character whatsoever
in, upon or within the limits of any surveyed or dedicated street, alley, state
or federal highway, county road or public property owned by the city, the
state, the federal government or the county, within the city limits of the
city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Flaming or glowing substances which by law may be placed upon any
street, alley, state or federal highway, for the purposes of public safety; or
      (2)   Trash, garbage or debris placed in a garbage container or placed
beside a public street, alley, highway or road for collection by an established
garbage or collection agency.
   (C)   The Police Department of the city and each officer thereof and all
other peace officers in this state shall have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this section.
§14-115 VEHICLES NOT TO BE WASHED ON STREET.
   The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the city is
hereby prohibited.
§14-116 WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease
or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley or other public way.
§14-117 OWNER OR OCCUPANT NOT TO PERMIT SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA TO BECOME A
HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
§14-118 STREET NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk or alley, by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water,
into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon
the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutter.
§14-119 EXCAVATIONS ADJOINING STREETS.
   All excavations upon the front or side of any lot adjoining any street,
avenue or alley or under sidewalk in the city shall be securely and properly
guarded and protected by the person or persons having charge of the same so as
to prevent the same from being or becoming dangerous to life or limb.
§14-120 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALK AND GUTTER CLEAN, GOOD REPAIR.
   It is the duty of the occupant of any lot or piece of ground abutting upon
any street where there is a sidewalk or gutter on the street to keep such
sidewalk or gutter clean and to remove therefrom all hay, straw, papers, stone,
snow or ice, dirt, filth, weeds, refuse, rubbish or hazards of any kind and to
keep the sidewalk and gutter in good repair. If there is no such occupant of
any such lot other than the owner, it is the duty of the owner to do the same.
CHAPTER 2: OPENINGS IN STREETS
Section
   
14-201   Permit to open street
   
14-202   Refilling, maintenance and penalty
   
14-203   Openings, how refilled
   
14-204   Barricades and lights
§14-201 PERMIT TO OPEN STREET.
   (A)   Any plumber or other person desiring to cut into or in any manner open
any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public ground, whether paved,
graveled, graded or not, in the city, for any purpose whatever, shall first
obtain a permit from the City Code Enforcement Official to cut or open such
street, alley, sidewalk or other public ground.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to the issuance of a permit as required herein, the City
Code Enforcement Official or his or her designated representative may require a
deposit in an amount sufficient to refill and repair the requested cut or
opening in accordance with the requirements of §
14-202.
      (2)   All deposits shall be made with the City Treasurer and shall be
held in a special fund. Such deposit to be released to the permit holder upon
certification by the City Code Enforcement Official or his or her designated
representative that refilling and repairing of the cut or opening has been
performed in accordance with the requirements of §§
14-202 and
14-203.
§14-202 REFILLING, MAINTENANCE AND PENALTY.
   (A)   It is the duty of the permit holder to comply with the provisions of
§§
14-201 and
14-203 and all work required shall be completed immediately.
   (B)   After satisfactory refill and repair as required by §
14-203, it is the responsibility of the permit holder to immediately perform
any and all, subsequent refill, repair and maintenance on the cuts or openings
for a period of 12 months from the date of the permit upon notice from the City
Code Enforcement Official or his or her designated representative.
   (C)   Upon failure of the permit holder to make adequate refill and repair
as required by this chapter, the city may refill or repair or secure the work
by contract with the cost of the work being assessed against the permit holder.
Failure of the permit holder to pay such costs shall be grounds for denial of
any and all future permits required by §
14-201, and the permit holder shall be subject to all other penalties provided
for in this chapter.
§14-203 OPENINGS, HOW REFILLED.
   (A)   When any street, alley, sidewalk or the public ground has been cut or
opened for any purpose the permit holder shall refill and repair the cut or
opening using sand placed in the opening in layers or lifts not exceeding six
inches in depth and tamped following each layer or lift to the surface.
   (B)   All surfaces shall be restored with similar materials and workmanship
as originally existed prior to the cut or opening and subject to the approval
of the City Code Enforcement Official or his or her designated representative.
   (C)   All dirt and other materials taken from the cut or opening shall be
hauled away by the permit holder.
§14-204 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   In all cases where the surface of the street, alley, sidewalk or other
public ground is disturbed, the party so cutting into the opening shall
maintain suitable barricades and shall place lights at night to protect persons
from danger.
CHAPTER 3: USE OF STREETS IN BUILDING
Section
   
14-301   Temporary occupancy of streets with building material; permit and bond
   
14-302   Requisite of permit; amount of obstruction permitted; certain streets
excepted; no advertising
   
14-303   Protection of sidewalks
   
14-304   May occupy part of street; lights
§14-301 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF STREETS WITH BUILDING MATERIAL; PERMIT AND BOND.
   (A)   Any person desiring to temporarily occupy any portion of any public
street, alley or sidewalk within the city, for the purpose of placing thereon
material or rubbish for or from building operations or for excavation of any
area thereunder, or for any purpose whatever connected with the erection,
removal, alteration or repair of any building or other structure, shall apply
to the City Engineer/Public Works Director or designee for a permit for such
temporary occupation.
   (B)   It is unlawful to occupy or obstruct any street, alley or sidewalk
without a written permit therefor from the City Engineer/Public Works Director
or designee.
   (C)   The permit shall not be issued until the person applying therefor
shall have first presented a building permit therefor, together with a bond
approved by the City Manager in such sum as shall be fixed by the Engineer/
Public Works Director or designee, conditioned that the principal therein will
discharge all claims of every character arising from or occasioned by such
occupancy of such street, alley or sidewalk, or the construction or repair of
such building, or the making of such excavation and discharge all judgments
obtained together with all costs attached thereto against the city by reason of
any such claim, injury or damage sustained.
   (D)   Every person carrying on any such excavation or building operation
shall keep all streets, alleys and sidewalks adjacent to such excavation or
building operations carried on by them in a clean and orderly condition and not
obstructed, except as provided herein, during such operation.
   (E)   At the expiration of the time stipulated in the permit aforesaid, they
shall restore all such streets, alleys and sidewalks to as good condition as
they were before the beginning of such operations.
   (F)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon final
conviction thereof, constitute and work a forfeiture of all rights and
privileges granted by the permit hereinbefore mentioned.
§14-302 REQUISITE OF PERMIT; AMOUNT OF OBSTRUCTION PERMITTED; CERTAIN STREETS
EXCEPTED; NO ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Permits for temporary street occupancy as hereinbefore provided shall
be issued by the City Engineer/Public Works Director or designee, shall be in
writing and shall be for a period of time not to exceed 90 days or such time as
the City Engineer/Public Works Director or designee may deem expedient.
   (B)   The permit shall specify how much of the street, sidewalk or alley
shall be obstructed which amount of obstruction shall be within the discretion
of the City Engineer/Public Works Director or designee. No more than one-half
of any alley, nor more than two-thirds of any sidewalk, nor more than one-
fourth of any street shall be obstructed.
   (C)   When any building within the fire limits of the city is being repaired
or constructed, no part of the streets or the intersecting side streets shall
be obstructed by any lumber or material of any kind, and the streets shall be
kept open and clear for conveyance, traffic and travelers by foot, at all
times, except that sidewalks shall be restored to travel and the same roofed
and covered with proper and sufficient material to protect the traveling
public, while passing, from falling material of any kind.
   (D)   No advertising of any kind or character shall be placed on the
structure or barricades on or inside the street lines of any street.
§14-303 PROTECTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Whenever any portion of any street, alley or sidewalk shall be
obstructed under a permit as hereinbefore provided, the sidewalk and driveway
thereon shall be protected by a covering which shall be sufficient to protect
the public from danger attendant upon such building. The driveway and sidewalk
sufficient, in the opinion of the City Engineer/Public Works Director or
designee to accommodate the public, shall be kept in good condition for travel.
   (B)   Failure to comply with this section shall immediately work a
forfeiture of the permit given thereunder and all rights and privileges granted
therein.
§14-304 MAY OCCUPY PART OF STREET; LIGHTS.
   Any person or persons erecting any building may for the time occupy a
reasonable portion of the street in front of such building pursuant to this
chapter. The person occupying such street shall place and keep lights on the
material at night and maintain suitable barricades to protect persons from
danger. Such portions of the street so used for placing building material shall
not in any case exceed the specifications set out in this chapter.
CHAPTER 4: STRUCTURES UNDER AND ABOVE STREETS AND ALLEYS
Section
   
14-401   Approval authorized
   
14-402   Application
   
14-403   Notice
   
14-404   Utility relocations
   
14-405   Action on application
   
14-406   Other ordinances, rules and regulations
   
14-407   Appeals; notice of intent to appeal
§14-401 APPROVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Engineer/Public Works Director or designee may authorize and
regulate tunnels, walkways and other structures under and above public streets,
roads and alleys in accordance with the procedures set forth below.
   (B)   In approving the construction of a tunnel, walkway or other structure
under or above a public street, road or alley the City Engineer/Public Works
Director or designee shall make written findings to the effect that:
      (1)   Such structure, tunnel or walkway shall not interfere with the
public use of the street, road or alley; and
      (2)   Such structure, tunnel or walkway shall not unduly affect the right
of any public utility or franchise holder to maintain, install, replace or
repair facilities within the right-of-way of the street, road or alley.
(Ord. 1277, passed 12-8-1987)
§14-402 APPLICATION.
   Application to construct a tunnel, walkway or other structure shall be made
to the City Engineer/Public Works Director or designee by the party or parties
requesting the same. Such application shall include plans, drawings or other
descriptions adequate to review and evaluate the proposal, to the satisfaction
of the City Engineer/Public Works Director or designee.
   (B)   If properties adjacent to the proposed structure are not under the
same ownership, the application shall bear evidence of joint application by all
owners of property contiguous to the proposed structure.
(Ord. 1277, passed 12-8-1987)
§14-403 NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application under this chapter, the City Engineer/
Public Works Director or designee shall provide notice of the request to all
public utilities and franchise holders having a right or privilege to maintain
facilities within streets and alleys in the city.
   (B)   Notice shall allow not less than 30 days for review and comment upon
such application.
(Ord. 1277, passed 12-8-1987)
§14-404 UTILITY RELOCATIONS.
   When an application for construction of a tunnel, walkway or other
structure, if approved, would require the relocation of facilities of a utility
company or franchise holder having a special right or privilege to maintain,
replace, repair or install facilities within a right-of-way of a public street
or alley, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant or applicants to
provide evidence of agreement to such relocation from the utility or franchise
holder or holders so affected.
(Ord. 1277, passed 12-8-1987)
§14-405 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The City Engineer/Public Works Director or designee shall, after
expiration of the review and comment period, approve, deny or request further
information in support of the application.
   (B)   Any action upon the application shall be made in writing and may bear
such conditions and requirements as may be deemed appropriate to secure and
maintain the rights and privileges of the public and utility companies or
franchise holders.
   (C)   A copy of the application approval, including all conditions and
requirements, shall be attached to and made a part of the building permit for
the tunnel, walkway or structure.
(Ord. 1277, passed 12-8-1987)
§14-406 OTHER ORDINANCES, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as abrogating any other
provisions of city ordinances or the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1277, passed 12-8-1987)
§14-407 APPEALS; NOTICE OF INTENT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any party or parties aggrieved by a decision under this chapter may
appeal such decision to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notice of intent to appeal shall be given to the City Clerk within ten
days of the action which is being appealed. Notice of intent to appeal shall
stay the issuance of any building permit for a period of 15 days from receipt
of the notice. If an appeal has not been filed in a court of competent
jurisdiction within 15 days of notice of an appeal, a permit for such
construction may be issued. If such appeal is filed within the specified 15
days after notice of intent to appeal, no permit for construction shall be
issued prior to resolution of such appeal.
(Ord. 1277, passed 12-8-1987)
CHAPTER 5: PARADES
Section
   
14-501   Definition
   
14-502   Permit required
   
14-503   Exemptions
   
14-504   Permit application
   
14-505   Permit fee and application
   
14-506   Issuance; denial; revocation
   
14-507   Place of parade
   
14-508   Police assistance on private property
   
14-509   Carrying permit
   
14-510   Compliance with laws and regulations
§14-501 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant,
demonstration, celebration or procession of any kind, or any similar display,
in or upon any street, park or other public place.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-502 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted any
parade, public meeting, celebration or demonstration on any of the streets,
highways, alleys, parks, public places or other public grounds of the city
without first having obtained a permit therefor from the City Manager as herein
provided.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-503 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-504 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Method of obtaining. At least seven working days (weekend and holidays
excluded) before any person intends to conduct any parade, meeting, celebration
or demonstration pursuant to this chapter, written application for a permit
therefor shall be filed with the City Manager and the application shall be
accompanied by: a written statement giving the name of the sponsoring person,
firm, corporation or organization; the route, dates and time of the parade; the
approximate number of persons and vehicles to take part; the date, time and
place of the public meeting, celebration or demonstration, the area to be
occupied; and the approximate number of persons and vehicles to take part; and
the nature and purpose of the parade, meeting or demonstration.
   (B)   Applications. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade, the type of animals and description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The location where such parade will start and terminate. If the
parade or event is to take place in a city park or city owned building, the
name and location of such city owned property;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of such
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file
with the City Manager a communication in writing from the person proposing to
hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or
her behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information which the City Manager shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
issue; and
      (14)   Use of any sound amplification equipment by type.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-505 PERMIT FEE AND APPLICATION.
   There shall be a $20 processing fee for a parade permit. The permit
application may be obtained from the office of the City Clerk or from the
offices of the City Police Department.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-506 ISSUANCE; DENIAL; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Consideration. The City Manager, where good cause is shown therefor,
shall have the authority to consider any application hereunder which is filed
less than seven days before the date such parade is proposed to be conducted.
   (B)   Duty of City Manager. It shall be the duty of the City Manager, upon
receipt of an application under this section, to make such investigation and
inquiry as he or she deems necessary to determine whether any regular municipal
service of the city will be hampered, obstructed or delayed, the anticipated
degree of interference with general traffic, and the public convenience, and
the probable extent of extra policing, traffic control or other protective
service of the city reasonably occasioned thereby. If such interruption of
municipal service, traffic or public convenience, or if the extent of extra
services required is found to be unreasonable or detrimental to the interest of
the public, he or she shall endorse such finding upon the application and
refuse to grant the same.
   (C)   Standards for permit issuance. The City Manager shall issue a parade
permit when, from a consideration of the application and from such other
information as may otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of police officers of this city to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to this city;
      (3)   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions
of this city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and
areas contiguous thereto;
      (4)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas;
      (5)   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (6)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
      (7)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
and
      (8)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, cause, goods or events and is not designed to be held purely for
private profit.
   (D)   Notice of permit denial. If the City Manager disapproves the
application for a parade permit, he or she shall mail to the applicant, within
three days after the date upon which the application was filed, a notice of his
or her action.
   (E)   Revocation.
      (1)   Any permit granted by the City Manager under this chapter shall be
revocable at any time by the City Manager when, in his or her discretion, it is
determined that the parade, meeting, celebration or demonstration has or will
unduly hamper or interfere with any regular municipal service, general traffic
or public convenience.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (E)(1) above, the City Manager shall
have the authority, after a hearing affording due process, to revoke a parade
permit issued hereunder upon application of the standards for issuance as set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-507 PLACE OF PARADE.
   (A)   The place of the parade may be restricted to a location described by
the City Manager when said permit request is approved.
   (B)   The location of the parade may be limited to specific areas upon any
street, park or other public place in order to ensure crowd management,
preclude disruptive movement and ensure no interference with general traffic,
public safety or access to public buildings, parks, sidewalks, parking areas or
other public place.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-508 POLICE ASSISTANCE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   When it is anticipated by private property owners that an event of a type
defined in §
14-501 will take place on the owner’s premises, and when the owner determines
that crowd management is beyond the owners’ capability to control, the owner
may request the assistance of the City Police Department. The owner shall
advise the City Police Department in writing of the following:
   (A)   Date and place of the event;
   (B)   Nature of the event;
   (C)   Area of owner’s property to which the event is to be restricted;
   (D)   Authority of the city to make arrests for trespass by any participant
in the event of entry onto restricted portions of the property; and
   (E)   Affidavit requesting that the city police enter on the owner’s
property for purposes of crowd control.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-509 CARRYING PERMIT.
   The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading such activity
shall carry the parade permit upon his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
§14-510 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   A person holding a parade permit shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions attached to said permit and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 1625, passed 4-11-2006)
CHAPTER 6: DRIVEWAY STANDARDS
Section
   
14-601   Scope and application
   
14-602   Statement of purpose
   
14-603   Permit required
   
14-604   Certificate of completion or occupancy
   
14-605   Right of access
   
14-606   Appeals
   
14-607   Penalty for violation
   
14-608   Driveway regulations
   
14-609   Construction standards
   
14-610   Figures
§14-601 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the construction, modification
or revision of any facility providing vehicular access between a public street
and private property within the city.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§14-602 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the public health, safety
and general welfare by controlling the number, location and design of driveways
and appurtenant improvements in order to:
   (A)   Minimize conflicts between traffic on public streets and traffic
entering and exiting private property;
   (B)   Protect the traffic capacity of public streets;
   (C)   Protect street rights-of-way from encroachments which may restrict
future public improvements therein;
   (D)   Assure safe and adequate ingress and egress to private property; and
   (E)   Supplement the provisions and requirements of the major street plan
for the city.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§14-603 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person,
firm, corporation, partnership or association to remove, alter, erect or
construct any curb, gutter, approach, driveway or drainage facility upon or
within a public street right-of-way without first obtaining a permit therefor
from the Director of Public Works or his or her designated representative.
   (B)   (1)   Application for a permit, as herein required, shall be made on
the form specified by the Director of Public Works and shall be accompanied by
such plot plan or survey as may be required to assure compliance with this
chapter.
      (2)   At a minimum, such plan or survey shall accurately indicate
existing and proposed buildings, driveways, utilities, parking arrangements,
property lines and adjacent street improvements.
   (C)   The application for a driveway permit shall be accompanied by a permit
fee as shall be set by motion of the City Council. Such fee shall be
nonrefundable and shall be considered as including necessary and appropriate
site inspection fees.
   (D)   A separate driveway permit shall not be required in conjunction with a
building permit; provided, that:
      (1)   The Public Works Director shall approve the plans for any multi-
family, commercial or industrial facilities prior to issuance of a building
permit; and
      (2)   The Public Works Director shall be notified of issuance of all
building permits involving driveway improvements.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§14-604 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION OR OCCUPANCY.
   No building, construction or site improvement issued a driveway permit or
building permit shall be considered satisfactorily completed until driveway
construction or modification therein required has been completed, and no
certificate of occupancy or completion shall be issued therefor without the
approval of the Public Works Director, or his or her designated representative.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§14-605 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as denying reasonable access to a
public street from an adjacent property unless such street is a limited access
roadway. In such instance where the size, shape or topography of a tract of
land makes compliance with the provisions of this chapter impractical or
imposes an undue hardship, the owner or tenant thereof may appeal the strict
application of this chapter to the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§14-606 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person appealing the strict application of these standards shall
submit to the Public Works Director a written appeal specifying:
      (1)   The portion or portions of provisions of this chapter being
appealed;
      (2)   The conditions unique to the property which make the application of
such provisions impractical and unreasonable; and
      (3)   Plans showing the applicant’s proposed alternative.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application on appeal, the Public Works Director
shall, within five working days, make a determination as to the merits of the
appeal. Such determination shall be made in writing and shall consider:
      (1)   Validity of the hardship claimed, as compared to an inconvenience;
      (2)   Ability of the site to provide access without the relief requested;
and
      (3)   Uniqueness of the size, shape or topographic conditions claimed to
create an undue hardship.
   (C)   Upon a finding that an appeal is reasonable and necessary, the Public
Works Director may issue a driveway permit granting such relief as necessary to
allow suitable access to the site and bearing such conditions as necessary to
meet the spirit and intent of this chapter.
   (D)   Upon a finding that an appeal is not reasonable or necessary, the
Public Works Director shall so inform the applicant in writing, accompanied by
the findings.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the Public Works Director’s findings, an applicant may
request a hearing of his or her appeal before the Board of Adjustment. Such
hearing shall be held only after notice of hearing as required for a zoning
variance. At such hearing, the applicant, interested parties and Public Works
Director shall be heard.
   (F)   In considering an appeal, the Board of Adjustment shall be required to
make the same findings required for a zoning variance in order to grant the
appeal. The Board may approve the requested driveways, modify the requested
driveways or deny the request.
   (G)   Appeal from the Board of Adjustment’s action may be taken to district
court as provided in the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§14-607 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be considered an offense
against the city, punishable, upon conviction, in accordance with §
1-108.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§14-608 DRIVEWAY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Standard driveway dimensions.
      (1)   For purposes of this chapter, allowable driveway dimensions shall
vary with the type of land use they serve as classified under the zoning
ordinance, and as follows:
         (a)   Residential driveways serve one- and two-family dwelling sites;
         (b)   Multi-family driveways serve three or more dwellings and uses
permitted on review in a residential district and churches;
         (c)   Commercial driveways serve uses permitted by right and upon
review in any commercial zoning district; and
         (d)   Industrial driveways serve uses allowed only in industrial
zoning districts.
      (2)   Allowable driveway dimensions are hereby established as contained
in Table 1, “Standard Driveway Dimensions,” of this section.
      (3)   The requirements of the table of standard driveway dimensions and
the terms used therein are illustrated in §
14-610, Figures 1 through 5 of this chapter.
   (B)   Limitations on number and total driveway opening.
      (1)   In order to restrict the number of points of conflict between
traffic upon a public street and traffic entering and exiting private property,
the number and total width of driveways shall be limited in proportion to the
street frontage of the property served, in accordance with Table 2,
“Limitations On Number And Total Driveway Opening,” of this section.
      (2)   The limitations on driveways shall be applied to individual tracts
of record under the same ownership as shown in the office of the County Clerk.
Calculation of allowable driveways and widths shall be based on a single street
frontage. Properties with frontage on two or more streets shall have
limitations calculated for each frontage. Allowable driveways and widths must
be located adjacent to the frontage on which they are based.
Table 1
Standard Driveway Dimensions
             Standard Dimensions             Separation and Setback Between
Type of Use5 Width           Radius          Intersecting1,2

             Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum Drives3 Street4
Table 1
Standard Driveway Dimensions
                 Standard Dimensions              Separation and Setback
Type of Use5     Width            Radius          Between Intersecting1,2

                 Minimum Maximum  Minimum Maximum Drives3 Street4
Industrial:
   One-way    12 feet 30 feet  30 feet -       40 feet 20 feet
   Two-way    24 feet 50 feet  30 feet -       40 feet 20 feet
Multi-family and
commercial:
   One-way    12 feet 16 feet  15 feet 25 feet 20 feet 20 feet
   Two-way    24 feet 36 feet  15 feet 25 feet 20 feet 20 feet
                         25 feet6 5 feet  10 feet 20 feet 10 feet
                                  Maximum width may be increased to 30 feet
                                  where residential drive serves garages with
Residential      12 feet 30 feet  more than 16 feet of opening facing directly
                                  upon a local or collector street. Other
                                  provisions of Tables 1 and 2 of this section
                                  shall still apply.
Notes:
   1.   Distances are measured from point of radius/return at edge of street or
curb.
   2.   Setback from an interior property line shall be at least 1 foot from
radius/return.
   3.   Pairs of one-way drives separated by an island of between 5 and 20 feet
shall be considered a single driveway.
   4.   See division (C) below for additional setback requirements on or
adjacent to major streets.
   5.   Residential properties shall provide a minimum of 2 off street parking
spaces per dwelling.
   6.   Maximum driveway width and total driveway opening allowed subject to
additional limitations in Table 2 of this section.
 
Table 2
Limitations on Number and Total Driveway Opening
Street Frontage Maximum Number of Drives Total Driveway Opening Permitted1
Table 2
Limitations on Number and Total Driveway Opening
Street Frontage    Maximum Number of     Total Driveway Opening Permitted1
                   Drives
Less than 200 feet 2                     50% of frontage or 70 feet,
                                         whichever is less
200 to 400 feet    3                     Not to exceed 100 feet total
400 to 800 feet    3                     Not to exceed standard dimensions
800 or more feet   1 plus 1 per 400 feet Not to exceed standard dimensions
Note:
1.   Individual drives shall not exceed width allowed in Table 1, “Standard
Driveway Dimension,” of this section.
 
   (C)   Driveways on or adjacent to major streets and section line roads.
Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, no portion of a driveway upon a
major street or section line road shall be located closer to the right-of-way
of an intersecting major street or section line road than a distance equal to
one-half of the frontage upon which the driveway is located or 50 feet,
whichever provides the greater setback; provided, that a setback of over 150
feet shall not be required. Driveways located upon properties at the
intersection of two major streets shall not be required to meet the provisions
of division (C)(1) above when entering upon a divided roadway with a median
which prohibits exiting vehicles from making left-hand turns. Residential lots
with primary frontage upon a local street shall not be permitted secondary
driveway access from a major street or section line road from the rear yard or
side yard of such lots.
   (D)   Angle of intersection with street. Driveways should intersect with the
public street at right angles whenever feasible. In no instance shall the angle
of intersection be less than 75 degrees. The angle of intersection shall be
measured upon a line from the center points of the driveway at the edge of the
street and at the right-of-way line. On curvilinear streets or culs-de-sac, the
angle of intersection shall be measured from the tangent of the street radius.
   (E)   Alternative design options.
      (1)   Insufficient right-of-way for radius. When a full radius cannot be
achieved due to insufficient separation between the right-of-way and back of
curb or street edge, the radius may be either:
         (a)   Terminated at the right-of-way; or
         (b)   Extended beyond the right-of-way.
      (2)   Compound radius returns. When desired, a compound radius may be
laid upon the right-of-way in order to allow easier access to paved areas
immediately behind the right-of-way line; provided, that the minimum radius is
maintained to within five feet of the right-of-way.
      (3)   Existing conditions and driveways. It is the intent of this chapter
to require modification of existing driveways as a condition for approval of
building permits for the remodeling or expansion on commercial and industrial
properties. In instances where full compliance with these standards is
impractical, the Public Works Director may require alternative improvements in
order to control turning movements and restrict the number and width of
driveways. These alternative improvements may include, but shall not be limited
to:
         (a)   Reduction of existing driveway openings;
         (b)   Installation of radius/returns;
         (c)   Installation of barrier islands adjacent to the edge of street;
and/or
         (d)   Modification of parking arrangement or striping in order to
restrict backing onto a public street.
   (F)   Interpretation of design terms. For the purpose of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      DRIVEWAY. Any facility, pavement or construction intended or used for
vehicular ingress and egress from a street to private property, within the
limits of the right-of-way, as herein defined.
      DRIVEWAY WIDTH (W). The width of a driveway at the right-of-way measured
parallel to the right-of-way, or the narrowest dimension of the driveway
measured perpendicular to the centerline if drive is not at a 90-degree angle
to the street.
      RADIUS/RETURN. A true radius from the back of curb or edge of pavement
toward the right-of-way. The radius/return shall begin at a right angle to the
right-of-way and continue on an arc of not less than 75 degrees.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). Either:
         (a)   The limits of existing right-of-way platted, dedicated or deeded
to the public for street purposes; or
         (b)   The limits of future right-of-way required as designated by the
major street plan of the city, whichever is greater.
   STREET. The paved portion of a street right-of-way intended for vehicular
traffic and/or parking where permitted.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§ 14-609 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standard construction details. All driveways installed or modified
after the effective date hereof shall be constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this section and the “Standard Details for Driveways,” §
14-610, Figures 2 through 5, unless alternative designs are approved by the
Public Works Director.
   (B)   Materials. Materials used for driveway construction shall be new
materials conforming to the following specifications, unless alternative
materials are approved by the Public Works Director:
      (1)   Concrete shall be six-inch-thick transit mixed Portland cement
concrete consisting of fine and coarse aggregate, Portland cement, and such
additional materials as approved by the Public Works Director and having a
compressive strength of 3,500 psi at an age of 28 days. Maximum slump shall be
three inches. Applicable ASTM standards are: C-31, C-39, C-94.
      (2)   Contraction joint filler shall be ready-mix, cold-applied joint
sealer and shall be a rubbery, resistant, adhesive, internal setup mastic joint
sealer which bonds to concrete.
      (3)   Expansion joint filler shall be a bituminous type preformed asphalt
impregnated material meeting the requirements of AASHO designation M-59.
Material shall be three-fourths inch wide and equal to the thickness of the
concrete.
   (C)   Construction methods and equipment. The following construction
methods, practices and equipment shall be used in constructing a driveway. All
work shall be performed in a workmanlike, professional manner.
      (1)   Sawing. Sawing shall be done with equipment of sufficient power to
complete the work required. No concrete within the existing street shall be
removed prior to saw cutting as required in §
14-610. Where a driveway abuts an asphaltic street without curb and gutter,
contractor shall saw cut and remove asphalt as indicated in §
14-610.
      (2)   Forming. All forms shall be braced in such a manner that no bowing
or movement will occur when pouring concrete. Straight forms shall be not less
than one and one-half inches in thickness, if wooden. Radius forms shall be of
such material that a true radius can be obtained. All forms shall have a depth
equal to the prescribed thickness of concrete. Forms shall be inspected and
approved before concrete is poured.
      (3)   Hand floats. Floats shall have a smooth finish and adjusted or held
so the screed will have a small amount of concrete in front of it at all times.
The use of a finishing machine may be used; provided, that surface smoothness
and tolerance are obtained.
      (4)   Small tools. The contractor shall furnish a sufficient number of
work bridges, hand floats, ten-foot straight edge and small tools to
satisfactorily complete the work.
      (5)   Cleanup. All chunks of concrete, excess dirt, forms and the like
must be hauled off and all sidewalks, curbs and drive approaches are to be
backfilled before final inspection is made.
      (6)   Dirt work. All rough grading shall be done before curb removal.
Existing soil shall be removed a minimum of six inches deep and a maximum of
eight inches unless soft ground is encountered, then all soft material shall be
removed and brought back to grade with river sand.
      (7)   Contraction joints. Contraction joints shall be sawed one-third the
thickness of the concrete and placed as shown in §
14-610. Contraction joints shall be cut as soon as concrete has hardened
sufficiently to permit sawing without excessive raveling and before
uncontrolled cracking occurs. All sawed joints exposed to traffic shall be
filled with approved joint sealer.
   (D)   Drainage provisions.
      (1)   Curb and gutter streets. Driveways on curb and gutter section
streets shall rise six inches from the gutter elevation at a point six feet
from the back of the original curb line. From that point, the grade of the
driveway may rise or fall. Surface drainage may be carried across the driveway
to the gutter, provided alternative drainage improvements are not required in
conjunction with a building permit or development approval.
      (2)   Open ditch streets.
         (a) Driveway improvements crossing an open ditch (bar ditch) shall
include a drainage culvert sized and installed at a grade approved by the
Public Works Director. A minimum diameter of 15 inches shall be required unless
otherwise authorized by the Public Works Director.
         (b)   Culverts shall either:
            1.   Extend not less than four feet beyond the nearest paved
portion of the driveway, excluding prefabricated end sections; or
            2.   Extend not less than two feet beyond the nearest paved portion
of the driveway when finished with a P.C. concrete headwall which is not more
than six inches below the level of the nearest portion of the driveway.
         (c)   Culverts shall have concrete headwalls or prefabricated end
sections.
         (d)   Surface drainage across a driveway (low water crossings) shall
be permitted only upon specific approval of the Public Works Director.
         (e)   The maximum slope of backfill within the working area shall be
one foot of fall within two and one-half feet of horizontal distance.
   (E)   Abandoned and closed driveways. Where existing driveways are proposed
or required to be abandoned, they shall be completely removed. When adjacent to
a curb and gutter street, the curb and gutter shall be replaced.
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
§ 14-610 FIGURES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3619.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3621.jpg]
 
 
Notes:
   1.    Saw cut shall be made prior to removal of concrete. Cuts shall be 2 inches
deep or 1/3 depth of gutter, whichever is greater. Cuts shall include face and top
of curb.
   2.    Entire gutter shall be removed and replaced if existing gutter holds water,
gutter is broken or in poor condition or gutter is less than 24 inches wide from the
back of the curb.
   3.    Radius shall not begin closer than 1 foot from an interior property line
when extended to the curb line.
   4.    Centerline contraction joint required for driveways greater than 14 feet in
width.
   5.    Where crossing a sidewalk, continuity of walk shall be maintained and
handicapped access provided.
Call 252-0250, ext. 123 for inspection before pouring concrete.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3625.jpg]
 
Call 252-0250, ext. 123 for inspection before pouring concrete.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3627.jpg]
 
If ROW is not sufficient to allow full 90-degree radius/return, a minimum arc
of 60 degrees shall be maintained. When necessary, this arc shall be continued
beyond the ROW. Where full 90 degrees radii are not installed, width shall be
measured at the ROW line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3629.jpg]
 
Where ROW depth permits, a compound radius/return may be placed on ROW;
provided that a minimum arc of 60 degrees is maintained from edge of street and
secondary radius does not exceed 5 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3631.jpg]
 
Note:
   1.    Radii as allowed in §
14-608, Table 1 of this chapter. All other radii not to exceed 5 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/12f61f084dfda993a89234e2d5424f09ce1bb06c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3633.jpg]
 
Notes:
   1.    Minimum arc of 75 degrees with radius as allowed in §
14-608, Table 1 of this chapter.
   2.   Arc of return shall be supplementary to angle 1 of this note with
radius as allowed in §
14-608, Table 1.
 
(Ord. 1263, passed 1-13-1987)
PART 15: TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
Chapter
   
1.    GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
2.    ENFORCEMENT
   
3.    VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
   
4.    SPEED REGULATIONS
   
5.    DRIVING, OVERTAKING, PASSING
   
6.    TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
   
7.    STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING GENERALLY
   
8.    LOADING
   
9.    TURNING MOVEMENTS
   
10.    PEDESTRIANS
   
11.    BICYCLES
   
12.    MOTORCYCLES
   
13.    IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
   
14.    PENALTIES
   
15.    GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
15-101   Citation of chapter
   
15-102   Traffic code controlling
   
15-103   Definitions
   
15-104   Adoption of State Traffic Code
§15-101 CITATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter and all amendments hereto may be cited or referred to as the
Traffic Code, City of Duncan, and may so appear upon all official documents,
records or instruments.
§15-102 TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING.
   Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this chapter, the
traffic code shall be controlling in the use of city streets, alleys,
thoroughfares, parks, parkways or any other public rights-of-way or municipally
owned land, by pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind whether self-propelled
or otherwise and whether moving or at rest.
§15-103 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions relating to traffic regulations for the city, as found in 47
O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter.
§15-104 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code all
of the provisions of Chapters 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the State Highway Safety
Code, all as found in 47 O.S. All of these provisions are hereby made a part of
the traffic ordinances of the city.
   (B)   All of the provisions found in these chapters are hereby vitalized as
provided in the laws by this section, specific reference to which is hereby
made, as well as all subsequent amendments to the laws, and all of the laws as
well as amendments thereto shall be in full force and effect within the city
insofar as the same are not modified by other provisions in this part or
amendments thereto.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 2: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
15-201   Enforcement of traffic laws
   
15-202   Direction of traffic by hand or voice
   
15-203   Direction of traffic by unauthorized persons
   
15-204   Obedience to police and fire officials
   
15-205   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
15-206   Pushcarts, riding animals or driving animal drawn vehicles to comply
with code
   
15-207   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
15-208   Public officers and employees to obey traffic regulations
   
15-209   Persons working on streets; exceptions
   
15-210   Maintenance and construction zones
   
15-211   Possession of valid driver’s license required
   
15-212   Operation of vehicle on invalid license or under suspension prohibited
   
15-213   Unlawful to operate vehicle without state vehicle license
   
15-214   Permitting unauthorized person to drive prohibited
   
15-215   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
15-216   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
15-217   Accidents, duty to stop
   
15-218   Duty upon striking unattended vehicle, fixtures on highway
   
15-219   Issuance of citation tags
   
15-220   Failure to obey citation
   
15-221   Failure to comply with traffic citations attached to parked vehicle
   
15-222   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
15-223   Illegal cancellation of traffic citations
   
15-224   Disposition and records of traffic citations, warrants and complaints
   
15-225   Court records; abstract to be sent to State Department of Public
Safety
   
15-226   Insurance or certificate required
§15-201 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   It is the duty of the officers of the Police Department or any officers that
are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic laws of this
city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this city.
Officers of the Department shall make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents and cooperate with other officers in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the Department
by this part and any other traffic ordinances of this city.
§15-202 DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY HAND OR VOICE.
   (A)   (1)   Officers of the Police Department or any officers designated by
the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances.
      (2)   In the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or
to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic
as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws
and ordinances.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity.
§15-203 DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt to direct traffic, except in
case of emergency where no officer is present.
§15-204 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
§15-205 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the City
Council may give by motion or resolution, is empowered to make regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this
city and to make temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions.
   (B)   No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than 90 days.
§15-206 PUSHCARTS, RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES TO COMPLY
WITH CODE.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, is subject to the provisions of
this part applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions of
this part which by their very nature can have no application.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-104
§15-207 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person is subject to all of
the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any
street while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinances of this
city.
§15-208 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this part shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county,
city or governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. It is
unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this part,
except as otherwise permitted in this part by state statute. This part shall
not apply to the military forces of the United States and organizations of the
National Guard when performing any military duty.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 16-103
§15-209 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this part,
except those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall
not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities.
   (B)   All street or highway and public utility operations shall be protected
by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagpersons.
   (C)   The provisions of this part shall apply to any of the persons and
vehicles exempted by this section when traveling to and from such work.
§15-210 MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the city or the public
utilities authority, to close any street or section thereof to traffic during
such repair, maintenance or construction. In exercising this authority, the
appropriate personnel, contractor or utility company shall erect or cause to be
erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public
that the street has been closed to traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic control devices or barricades have been erected,
it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or
around such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the
closed area. The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons
while engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair of highways, or to
persons entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or
property. Persons having their places of residence or places of business within
the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their
own risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic control devices to warn and guide the public. Every person using the
street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flagpersons or other traffic
control devices which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic through
the construction or maintenance area. For the purpose of this division (C),
CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE AREA means any area upon or around any highway that
is visibly marked as an area where construction, repair and maintenance is
temporarily occurring. The construction or maintenance area also includes the
lanes of highway leading up to the area upon which an activity described in
this section is being performed, beginning at the point where properly posted
traffic control devices start to warn and guide the public into and through the
construction or maintenance, including, but not limited to, instructions to
merge from one lane into another lane, to reduce speed or to follow directions
of flagpersons.
   (D)   The “merge now” traffic control device that is used to warn and guide
the public using the highway to merge shall be located no greater than one mile
nor less than 1,500 feet in advance of the highway construction or maintenance
area. Whenever any traffic control device requires traffic to merge due to the
closure of a section or lane of highway, the merge shall be completed:
      (1)   As soon as practicable after passing the traffic control device;
and
      (2)   Without passing any other traffic proceeding in the same direction.
   (E)   No person shall remove, change, modify, deface or alter any traffic
control device or barricade which has been erected on any highway under the
provisions of this section.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall relieve the city or its contractors,
agents, servants or employees from liability for failure to perform any of the
duties imposed herein.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of
not less than one $100 nor more than $1,000 or imprisonment in jail not to
exceed 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, and shall be liable for any
damage to property, or injury to or death to persons caused by the violations.
In addition, the court may order restitution in an amount equal to the actual
costs of the emergency response and repair or replacement of any damaged or
lost emergency equipment.
§15-211 POSSESSION OF VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver’s license as
required by state law for operation of a motor vehicle upon the state highways
to operate a motor vehicle within the city. Every such licensee shall have his
or her driver’s license in his or her immediate possession at all times when
operating a motor vehicle and shall display the same upon demand of any police
officer.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation of
any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued to him or
her with respect to the type of, or special mechanical control devices required
on a motor vehicle, or any other restriction applicable to the licensee as the
state may determine.
   (C)   A person charged with not having a valid driver’s license in his or
her possession pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above may present proof prior
to his or her arraignment that he or she had a valid driver’s license when
issued the citation and citation will be dismissed. The municipal court clerk
shall have the authority to dismiss the citation with cost without obtaining
court approval.
(Ord. 1591, passed 11-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 6-101
§15-212 OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON INVALID LICENSE OR UNDER SUSPENSION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle when his or her privilege to
do so is canceled, suspended, revoked or denied. Any person convicted of
violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle when his or her privilege to
do so has been revoked or suspended in accordance with 47 O.S. §§ 753 and 751
et seq., pertaining to suspension and revocation for refusal to submit to tests
and evidence of specific alcoholic concentrations and to other violations of
driving under the influence or while impaired.
   (C)   Each act of driving on the streets or highways as prohibited by this
section shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 6-303
§15-213 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE VEHICLE WITHOUT STATE VEHICLE LICENSE.
   It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the city
without a state vehicle license as may be required by law or to fail to display
the state vehicle license as required by law.
§15-214 PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or
her, registered in his or her name, or under his or her control to be driven,
parked or stopped upon any highway by any person who is not authorized under
the provisions of this part and the laws of the state to operate such vehicle.
§15-215 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions stated in this section.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this part;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is not
endangered; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in this section to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of
audible and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red or blue light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   The exemption in division (B)(3) above shall be granted to a law
enforcement officer operating an authorized emergency vehicle for law
enforcement purposes without using audible and visual signals required by this
section as long as the action does not endanger life or property if the officer
is following a suspected violator of the law with probable cause to believe
that:
         (a)   Knowledge of the presence of the officer will cause the suspect
to:
            1.   Destroy or lose evidence of a suspected felony;
            2.   End a suspected continuing felony before the officer has
obtained sufficient evidence to establish grounds for arrest; or
            3.   Evade apprehension or identification of the suspect or the
vehicle of the suspect.
         (b)   Because of traffic conditions, vehicles moving in response to
the audible or visual signals may increase the potential for a collision.
      (2)   The exceptions granted in this division (D) shall not apply to an
officer who is in actual pursuit of a person who is eluding or attempting to
elude the officer in violation of 21 O.S. § 540A.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
§15-216 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-106, 11-405 and 12-218
§15-217 ACCIDENTS, DUTY TO STOP.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his or her vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close
thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident:
         (a)   Until he or she is authorized to leave by a police officer; or
         (b)   If no police officer is called or present, he or she shall give
his or her name, address and the registration of his or her vehicle and, upon
request, exhibit his or her driver’s license and insurance security
verification form to the person injured or the driver or occupant of, or person
attending, any vehicle collided with.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in the accident shall render to
any person injured in accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying or
making arrangement for the carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon or
hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that this
treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
      (3)   Any such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than
is necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is
apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of $300
shall, by the quickest means of communication, report such accident to a police
officer or to the Police Department.
      (2)   If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
office of the Police Department as soon as practicable after the accident,
which report is to be forwarded to the State Department of Public Safety in
accordance with state law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this section.
   (C)   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
may be fined as provided in §
1-108.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
§15-218 DUTY UPON STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE, FIXTURES ON HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the correct name and address of
the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall
leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck, a written notice giving the
name and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the
striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof. The driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to fixtures or other
property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take reasonable steps to
locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such property of such fact
and of his or her name and address and of the registration number of the
vehicle he or she is driving and shall upon request and if available exhibit
his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license and shall make report of such
accident when and as required in §
15-217.
§15-219 ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and
duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons violating any
provision of this code. Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the
violator or by affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   (B)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into custody.
§15-220 FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his or her written
promise to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a citation
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally
issued.
(Ord. 1379, passed 9-26-1995)
§15-221 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of time as specified in the
citation, the clerk of the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor
vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him or her
of the violation and warning him or her that in the event such letter is
disregarded for a period of five days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On
any occasion where two or more such traffic citations have been affixed on the
same motor vehicle, and the traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant
of arrest may be issued without sending the letter provided in this section.
§15-222 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   The presumption in division (A) above shall apply only when the
procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
§15-223 ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this chapter.
§15-224 DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this city shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the municipal court.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court or the City Attorney, including forfeiture of
bail or by payment of a fine, to the municipal court clerk with approval of the
judge or his or her designated representative.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the municipal court which are delivered to the Police Department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   (D)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint or
warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter.
§15-225 COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT TO BE SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY.
   (A)   The municipal judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal and the amount of fine or forfeiture.
   (B)   (1)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the court’s record of the case.
      (2)   An abstract need not be made of any conviction involving the
illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   (C)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of hearing, the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture.
§15-226 INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
the vehicle within the city’s boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner’s security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the State Department of Public Safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer, and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   (B)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or operator’s
security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the state corporation
commission which reflect a deposit or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the State Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
O.S. Article VI, Chapter 7 and §
7-606 .
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance which
shall insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him
or her by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of
any motor vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of
liability required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in division (c) of this definition, using an insured
vehicle with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against
loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204; or in the case of a commercial automobile
insurance policy, may be issued by an unauthorized insurer as allowed pursuant
to 36 O.S. § 1106.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities, as defined in 47 O.S. § 7-330,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond;
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond; or
         (d)   For vehicles registered pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. §
1127, a policy meeting or exceeding the minimum vehicle liability limits;
provided, that the policy may be issued by an insurance company authorized to
do business in the state of residence or domicile of the member of the armed
forces, and the motor license agent or other registering agency shall accept
the security verification form issued by such insurance company.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board for
Property and Casualty Rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the State Compulsory Insurance Law.
   (D)   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the city’s boundaries, carry
either an operator’s or an owner’s security verification form issued by a
carrier, providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an
equivalent form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability
coverage.
   (E)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the Department upon request of any peace officer of the Department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in §
1-108.
   (F)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (G)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   (H)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten days reflecting the action taken by the court.
CHAPTER 3: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
Section
   
15-301   Certain vehicles prohibited; vehicles injurious to streets
   
15-302   Obstructive and dangerous vehicles
   
15-303   Equipment
   
15-304   Child passenger restraint required
   
15-305   Mufflers; modifications prohibited
   
15-306   Width, height, length and load
   
15-307   Inspection of vehicles
   
15-308   Maintenance and adjustment of brakes
   
15-309   Operators and front seat passengers required to wear safety belts
§15-301 CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED; VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS.
   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street, shall be driven or moved on any street.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-101 et seq.
§15-302 OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
§15-303 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped
as required by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the
city which is not equipped as required by law. It is unlawful to fail to use
such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner
prohibited by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment
prohibited by law upon a street of the city.
   (B)   Any person producing proof, within 48 hours, that a condition or
equipment for which the person was cited as defective, missing, prohibited,
improper, unauthorized or otherwise in violation of this chapter has been
remedied by the person shall be entitled to a dismissal of such charge without
assessment of court costs. The court clerk shall have the authority to dismiss
the citation without court approval.
(Ord. 1593, passed 11-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-201 et seq., 12-301 et seq. and 12-401
et seq.
§15-304 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every driver when transporting a child under four years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets or highways of this state shall
provide for the protection of the child by properly using a child passenger
restraint system in the rear seat of the motor vehicle. For the purpose of this
section, CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child passenger
restraint system that meets the federal standards for crash tested restraint
systems as set by 49 C.F.R. § 571.213.
   (B)   Children at least six years of age but younger than 13 years of age
shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      (2)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      (3)   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are
in use;
      (4)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable
to be placed in such devices; and
      (5)   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds and
who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap
safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with combination
lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and shoulder safety
belts in the back seat are being used by other children who weigh more than 40
pounds. Provided, however, for the purpose of this division (C)(5), BACK SEAT
shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle operated by
a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided further, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements of this
division (C)(5) if, at the request of any law enforcement officer, the licensed
childcare facility or church provides the officer with a written statement
verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child weighs more than 40
pounds.
   (D)   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if it
appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
section and to give an oral warning to the driver. The warning shall advise the
driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to install
or use a child passenger restraint system or seat belts in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   A violation of the provisions of this section shall not be admissible
as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (F)   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages.
   (G)   Any person convicted of violating divisions (A) or (B) above shall be
punished as set forth in §
1-108. The fine shall be suspended in the case of the first offense upon proof
of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system.
(Ord. 1384, passed 11-14-1995)
§15-305 MUFFLERS; MODIFICATIONS PROHIBITED.
   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
and annoying smoke, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar
device upon a motor vehicle on a street. No person shall modify the exhaust
system of a motor vehicle in any manner which will amplify or increase the
noise or sound emitted louder than that emitted by the muffler originally
installed on the vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-402
§15-306 WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH AND LOAD.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
length, height, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the Chief of
Police.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§15-307 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move on any road, street or highway of this
city any motor vehicle, including motorcycles, trailers, semitrailers or pole
trailers, which are licensed by the State Tax Commission and operated on the
streets or highways, of this city, or any combination thereof, unless the
vehicle is in such safe mechanical condition as not to endanger the driver or
other occupant of any vehicle upon the highway.
   (B)   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle
upon the streets of the city at any time to determine whether it is safe,
whether it is properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper
adjustment and repair.
(Ord. 1530, passed 7-24-2001)
§15-308 MAINTENANCE AND ADJUSTMENT OF BRAKES.
   All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be so
adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels on
opposite sides of the vehicle.
§15-309 OPERATORS AND FRONT SEAT PASSENGERS REQUIRED TO WEAR SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car
operated in this state shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat
belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured
pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 571.208.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, PASSENGER CAR shall mean VEHICLE
as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-186. PASSENGER CAR shall include the passenger
compartment of pickups, vans, minivans and sport utility vehicles. PASSENGER
CAR shall not include trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles,
motorcycles, motorized bicycles or vehicles used primarily for farm use which
is registered and licensed pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S.
   (B)   The State Commissioner of Public Safety, upon application from a
person who, for medical reasons, is unable to wear a safety seat belt system
supported by written attestation of such fact from a physician licensed
pursuant to 59 O.S. § 495, may issue to the person an exemption from the
provisions of this section. The exemption shall be in the form of a restriction
appearing on the driver’s license of the person and shall remain in effect
until the expiration date of the driver’s license. Nothing in this division (B)
shall be construed to prevent the person from applying for another exemption as
provided for in this section. The issuance of an attestation by a physician and
the subsequent issuance of an exemption by said State Commissioner, in good
faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall the physician and the city thereby
incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise, to any person injured
by reason of failure of the person to wear a safety seat belt system.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle while
performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   (D)   Any violation of the provisions of this section is punishable by a
fine as prescribed in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1518, passed 1-9-2001)
CHAPTER 4: SPEED REGULATIONS
Section
   
15-401   Speed limits generally; exceptions
   
15-402   School zones
   
15-403   Speed never to exceed that which is reasonable or prudent for existing
conditions
   
15-404   Minimum speed requirements; exception
   
15-405   Obedience to maximum and minimum speed limits
   
15-406   Charging violations and rule in civil actions
§15-401 SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than 25 mph upon any
street or highway within the city except:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this code;
      (2)   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted;
      (3)   When a different speed limit is established in this code; and
      (4)   When a special hazard exists that requires a lower speed for
compliance with §
15-403.
   (B)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may reduce or increase the
speed limits provided in this code, and when it does so, appropriate signs
shall be placed on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or
higher speed limit.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-801 and 11-804
§15-402 SCHOOL ZONES.
   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than that speed posted during
the hours posted on any street adjacent to any school in a designated school
zone on days when school is in session.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-803 and 15-102
§15-403 SPEED NEVER TO EXCEED THAT WHICH IS REASONABLE OR PRUDENT FOR EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is
reasonable or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into
consideration among other things, the conditions of the vehicle, the traffic,
roadway surface or width, the amount of light or darkness, the presence of
pedestrians in or near the roadways and the obstruction of views. No person
shall drive any vehicle at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring
it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
§15-404 MINIMUM SPEED REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION.
   No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to
the effective maximum speed allowed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere
with the normal movement of other traffic except when the slow speed is
unavoidable.
§15-405 OBEDIENCE TO MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   Where official signs and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum
speed limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in
excess of the maximum nor slower than the minimum except as required by an
authorized officer or in obedience to posted official signs.
§15-406 CHARGING VIOLATIONS AND RULE IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
   (A)   In every charge of violation of any speed regulation in this chapter,
the complainant, also the summons or notice to appear, shall specify the speed
at which the defendant is alleged to have driven, also the maximum speed
applicable within the district or at the locations cited.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter declaring maximum speed limitations
shall not be construed to relieve the plaintiff in any action from the burden
of proving negligence on the part of the defendant as the proximate cause of an
accident.
CHAPTER 5: DRIVING, OVERTAKING, PASSING
Section
   
15-501   Changing lanes; driving over medians
   
15-502   Driving on right side of roadway required; exceptions
   
15-503   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
15-504   Passing vehicle proceeding in same direction
   
15-505   Limitations on overtaking on the left; exception
   
15-506   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
15-507   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
15-508   Following too closely
   
15-509   No passing zones
   
15-510   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
15-511   Crossing fire hose
   
15-512   Driving through funeral or other procession prohibited; exceptions
   
15-513   Drivers in a procession
   
15-514   Military convoys
   
15-515   Overtaking and passing in school zones
   
15-516   Overtaking and passing school bus
   
15-517   School bus requirements; lights; signs; painting
   
15-518   Driving of vehicles on sidewalk prohibited; exception
   
15-519   Limitations on backing
   
15-520   Clinging to vehicles prohibited
   
15-521   Entering and leaving controlled access highways
   
15-522   Reckless driving
   
15-523   Careless or negligent driving, stopping or parking
   
15-524   Driving while under the influence of drugs
   
15-525   Driving while under the influence of alcohol
   
15-526   Evidence of intoxication or impaired ability in prosecution of DUI
   
15-527   Attention to driving required
   
15-528   Speed contest prohibited without permit
   
15-529   Driving through safety zone
   
15-530   Starting parked vehicle
   
15-531   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
15-532   Obstructions to driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
15-533   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
15-534   Unlawful riding
   
15-535   Private service drives
   
15-536   Designation of truck routes
   
15-537   Loads on vehicles
   
15-538   Vehicle approaching or entering intersection
   
15-539   Vehicle turning left at intersection
   
15-540   Vehicle approaching a yield right-of-way sign
   
15-541   Vehicle entering through highway
   
15-542   Vehicles facing stop, slow, warning or caution signal
   
15-543   Through streets
   
15-544   Four-lane roadways
   
15-545   Establishing a truck route through the city
   
15-546   Intersections where stop or yield required
   
15-547   Stop or yield sign construction and placement
   
15-548   Vehicle entering stop intersection
   
15-549   Vehicle entering yield intersection
   
15-550   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
15-551   Vehicles entering traffic from parking
   
15-552   Emerging from the alley, driveway or building
   
15-553   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
15-554   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
   
15-555   Certain vehicles to stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
15-556   Texting and driving
§15-501 CHANGING LANES; DRIVING OVER MEDIANS.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, in addition to all other rules consistent with this division
(A), a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a single
lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety and has signaled for a
change of course, not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle, of
his or her intention to change lanes.
   (B)   Where streets or roadways do not have marked traffic lanes, vehicles
shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight course as nearly as
practical and shall not weave in and out or turn from side to side
unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as necessary in
slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow moving vehicles or
making a proper approach for a turn, and this only after the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signaled for a change
of course.
   (C)   Upon a roadway which has been divided into three lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
   (D)   A two-way left turn lane is a lane near the center of the highway set
aside for use by vehicles making left turns in both directions from or into the
roadway. Two-way left turn lanes shall be designated by distinctive roadway
markings consisting of parallel double yellow lines, interior line dashed and
exterior line solid, on each side of the lane. A vehicle shall not be driven in
a designated two-way left turn lane except when preparing for or making a left
turn from or into a roadway. Vehicles turning left from the roadway shall not
be driven in the two-way left turn lane for more than 200 feet while preparing
for and making the turn. A vehicle turning left onto the roadway may utilize
the two-way left turn lane as a staging area by stopping and waiting for
traffic proceeding in the same direction to clear before merging into the
adjacent lanes of travel. A left turn shall not be made from any other lane
where a two-way left turn lane has been designated. Provided, however, this
section shall not prohibit driving across a two-way left turn lane when moving
from a service drive onto such marked roadway.
   (E)   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway. Drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   (F)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
shall be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted
to use another roadway by official traffic control devices or police officers.
No vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any such dividing space,
barrier, median or section, except through an opening in such physical barrier
or dividing section or space or at a crossover or intersection as established
by the city.
§15-502 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven to the
right of the center of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
§15-503 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway.
§15-504 PASSING VEHICLE PROCEEDING IN SAME DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in §
15-503, the driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
      (3)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-
hand side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
   (B)   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction, which requires movement of his or her vehicle from one lane of
traffic to another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety
and shall proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or
mechanical device.
   (C)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-303 and 11-305
§15-505 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
street or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every instance the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-
hand side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
   (B)   No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the
street or highway where the driver’s view along the street or highway is
obstructed; or
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel
or when approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection or
railroad grade crossing.
§15-506 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right. Upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-302
§15-507 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Whenever the Council by motion or resolution designates any street or
alley or part thereof as a one-way street or alley, the City Traffic Authority
shall have placed and maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no such
regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts
of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the direction indicated when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   (C)   Upon roadways designated and signposted for one-way traffic a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (D)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-308
§15-508 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-310
§15-509 NO PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The State Department of Highways, as regards state and federal
highways, and the City Traffic Authority as regards all other streets, are
hereby authorized to determine those portions of any highway where overtaking
and passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones.
When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone as
set forth in division (A) above, no driver shall at any time drive to the left
side of the roadway within the no passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark the no passing zone throughout its length.
§15-510 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle, other than on official business,
shall not follow any emergency vehicle or shall not purposely drive to any
location on a highway where an emergency exists which would interfere with the
free movement of authorized emergency vehicles or any other traffic using the
highway at the location.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), EMERGENCY shall include
traffic accidents, airplane accidents, disasters, explosions, civil
disturbances and (without limitation by the foregoing) any other related
circumstances which tend to cause traffic congestion.
      (3)   The purpose of this division (B) is to eliminate sightseers and
other persons who do not have official business at the scene of an emergency,
and whose presence would tend to cause traffic congestion.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1108(a)
§15-511 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1109
§15-512 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter.
   (B)   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as
such by display upon the outside of the lead vehicles identifying insignia or
other means of identification as may be determined and approved by the Police
Department.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 15-102
§15-513 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as closely as is practical and safe.
§15-514 MILITARY CONVOYS.
   (A)   The military forces of the United States and organizations of the
National Guard, performing any military duty, shall not be restricted by
municipal traffic regulations, and shall have the right-of-way on any street or
highway through which they may pass against all, except carriers of the United
States mail, fire engines, ambulances and police vehicles in the necessary
discharge of their respective duties.
   (B)   The mounted military moving in convoy shall have lights burning, with
lead and trail vehicles prominently marked, and shall travel, while inside the
corporate limits of this city in compliance with such speeds as are legally
posted within the corporate limits of this city and shall maintain a closed
interval of not more than 75 feet.
§15-515 OVERTAKING AND PASSING IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in motion
and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on all days when schools are in session.
   (B)   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple lane street which is
divided into three or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the right
half of the roadway has been divided into two or more lanes, or on one-way
streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being driven
in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane movement.
§15-516 OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle upon any street, roadway or highway upon
meeting or overtaking from either direction any school bus which was stopped on
or adjacent to the street, roadway or highway for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any schoolchildren and other occupants, shall stop the vehicle
immediately when the visual signals are in operation, as specified in § 15-517,
and shall not pass the school bus until the visual signals are deactivated.
      (2)   The driver may then proceed past such school bus at a speed which
is reasonable and prudent.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle when passing the school bus shall use due
caution for the safety of schoolchildren and other occupants of the school bus.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street with separate roadways need not
stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a different roadway or
when upon a controlled access highway and the school bus is stopped in a
loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-705
§15-517 SCHOOL BUS REQUIREMENTS; LIGHTS; SIGNS; PAINTING.
   (A)   The provisions of §
15-516 shall be applicable only if the school bus is painted yellow and bears
upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words
“School Bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height which can be
removed or covered when the vehicle is not in use as a school bus, and meets
the requirements of 47 O.S. § 12-228.
   (B)   The school bus shall be equipped with four red alternately flashing
warning signal lights, two of which shall be located high on the front and two
high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a minimum of four inches
in diameter and shall be widely separated.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-228
§15-518 DRIVING OF VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any sidewalk area except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
§15-519 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be backed into an intersection or upon any street or
highway, except for such distance as may be necessary to permit the vehicle to
enter its proper driving lane without crossing the center of the street.
   (B)   When backing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
and pedestrians and shall do so only while vision is not obstructed, at a
reduced, careful speed and after the driver has ascertained that such movement
can be made without endangering or interfering with the flow of traffic.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1102
§15-520 CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorized scooter, coaster, roller
skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any
moving vehicle upon a roadway.
§15-521 ENTERING AND LEAVING CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
§15-522 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in § 1-108.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-901
§15-523 CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING, STOPPING OR PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be
parked or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a
manner as to endanger life, limb, person or property, or as to interfere with
the lawful movement of traffic or use of the streets.
§15-524 DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive, operate or be in actual physical control
of any motor vehicle upon any highway who is under the influence of any
substance included in the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substance Act, being 63
O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq.
      (2)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this provision
is or has been lawfully entitled to use such controlled substance shall not
constitute a defense.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum as provided in §
1-108.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-902 and 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq.
§15-525 DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or low point beer to drive, operate or be in actual
physical control of any motor vehicle in the city.
   (B)   Any person who operates a motor vehicle while his or her ability to
operate such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol is subject
to punishment as provided in § 1-108 and license suspension as provided in 47
O.S.
Cross-reference:
    See also Part 3 of this code
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 6-205 and 6-107
§15-526 EVIDENCE OF INTOXICATION OR IMPAIRED ABILITY IN PROSECUTION OF DUI.
   (A)   Upon the prosecution of any person for a violation of §§
15-524 and
15-525, evidence of the amount of alcohol in such person’s blood, as shown by a
chemical analysis of his or her blood or breath, is admissible.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the trial of any criminal action or proceeding arising out
of acts alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or any
other intoxicating substance, or the combined influence of alcohol and any
other intoxicating substance, evidence of the alcohol concentration in the
blood or breath of the person as shown by analysis of the blood or breath of
the person performed in accordance with the provisions of 47 O.S. §§ 752 and
759, or evidence of the presence and concentration of any other intoxicating
substance as shown by analysis of such person’s blood, breath, saliva or urine
specimens in accordance with the provisions of 47 O.S. §§ 752 and 759, is
admissible. Evidence that the person has refused to submit to either of said
analyses is also admissible. For the purpose of this section, when the person
is under the age of 21 years, evidence that there was, at the time of the test,
any measurable quantity of alcohol is prima facie evidence that the person is
under the influence of alcohol in violation of 47 O.S. § 11-906.4.
      (2)   For persons 21 years of age or older:
         (a)   Evidence that there was, at the time of the test, an alcohol
concentration of five-hundredths or less is prima facie evidence that the
person was not under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Evidence that there was, at the time of the test, an alcohol
concentration in excess of five-hundredths but less than eight-hundredths is
relevant evidence that the person’s ability to operate a motor vehicle was
impaired by alcohol. However, no person shall be convicted of the offense of
operating or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while such
person’s ability to operate such vehicle was impaired by alcohol solely because
there was, at the time of the test, an alcohol concentration in excess of five-
hundredths but less than eight-hundredths in the blood or breath of the person
in the absence of additional evidence that such person’s ability to operate
such vehicle was affected by alcohol to the extent that the public health and
safety was threatened or that said person had violated a state statute or local
ordinance in the operation of a motor vehicle; and
         (c)   Evidence that there was, at the time of the test, an alcohol
concentration of eight-hundredths or more shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence that the person was under the influence of alcohol.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION means grams of
alcohol per 100 m/l of blood if the blood was tested, or grams of alcohol per
210 liters of breath if the breath was tested.
   (D)   To be admissible in a proceeding, the evidence must first be qualified
by establishing that the test was administered to the person within two hours
after the arrest of the person.
(Ord. 1607, passed 9-13-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 756
§15-527 ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED.
   The operator of every vehicle, while driving, shall devote his or her full
time and attention to such driving.
§15-528 SPEED CONTEST PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, aid or abet any motor vehicle speed contest
or exhibition of speed on any street or highway unless a permit has been
obtained from the Chief of Police. A permit may be issued only to nonprofit or
tax exempt entities. A permit will not be issued until proof of insurance has
been submitted documenting that sufficient liability, property and casualty
insurance is in effect for the contest or exhibition in compliance with the
State Governmental Tort Claims Act, being 51 O.S. §§ 151 et seq. The permit may
require other conditions as necessary such as arranging for proper barricades,
signage and personnel to ensure peace, safety and welfare considerations are
sufficiently met.
   (B)   No person shall, for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any unlawful motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or
highway, in any manner obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any
street or highway.
   (C)   When three or more persons assemble to witness or participate in an
unlawful speed contest such assembly is unlawful assembly, and any person who
participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 1566, passed 5-27-2003)
§15-529 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island.
§15-530 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
§15-531 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1105
§15-532 OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   The driver’s view should not be obstructed by any thing or item,
including, but not limited to, ice, snow or other substance.
§15-533 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
§15-534 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any such vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons
riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
§15-535 PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES.
   No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise.
§15-536 DESIGNATION OF TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the
Council may give by motion or resolution, may prescribe routes through the city
for the use of trucks in general, trucks of particular kinds and/or other
vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the
city. Appropriate and adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so that
drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes.
   (B)   When such signs are so erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed, as provided above, while
passing through the city, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate
therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall follow
such routes so far as practicable also when driving within the city and not
merely through the city.
§15-537 LOADS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway.
      (2)   Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders or other loose material
susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have the load
covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the load from
the vehicle.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded with livestock, poultry,
hay or agricultural products; provided, that any such truck shall be so
constructed or loaded as to prevent such livestock, poultry or hay from
escaping therefrom.
§15-538 VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is
not a state or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or
federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has
entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from different streets or
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right, except as provided in
division (A) above.
   (C)   The right-of-way rule declared in divisions (A) or (B) above is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this chapter.
§15-539 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   After so yielding and having given signal when and as required by this
code, the driver may make the left turn and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection from the opposite direction shall yield the right-
of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-402
§15-540 VEHICLE APPROACHING A YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGN.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a “yield right-of-way” sign shall slow
to a reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility, or
stop if necessary, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing
the street, and to all vehicles on the intersecting street or highway which
have entered the intersection or which are so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-403
§15-541 VEHICLE ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAY.
   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this code at the
entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through highway, or which
are approaching so closely on the through highway as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
§15-542 VEHICLES FACING STOP, SLOW, WARNING OR CAUTION SIGNAL.
   (A)   If two or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals at an intersection and are approaching as to enter the intersection at
the same time, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   If each vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
      (2)   If each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
      (3)   If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right-of-way.
      (4)   If one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take caution,
the one required to take caution shall have the right-of-way.
   (B)   In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the intersection
shall have the right-of-way over one which has not entered the intersection.
§15-543 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may designate any street or
part of a street a through street.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council designates and describes a through street,
the City Traffic Authority shall have placed and maintained a stop sign, or
yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed and maintained on every
street intersecting a through street, or intersecting that portion thereof,
unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic
control signals.
   (C)   At the intersection of two such through streets or at the intersection
of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs
shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may be
determined by the City Traffic Authority if deemed desirable.
§15-544 FOUR-LANE ROADWAYS.
   U.S. Highway 81 from Pate Avenue north to the city limits of the city and
Main Street from the Willow Creek Bridge on Main Street west to U.S. Highway 81
bypass are hereby designated as four-lane roadways and shall be appropriately
marked as such.
§15-545 ESTABLISHING A TRUCK ROUTE THROUGH THE CITY.
   A truck route to be as follows is hereby established: the U.S. 81 bypass and
S.H. 7 bypass; 6th and 7th Streets from Bois D’Arc Avenue to Hickory Avenue
from U.S. 81 bypass to Eastland Avenue; 5th Street from Bois D’Arc Avenue to
Elder Avenue; Main Street from U.S. 81 bypass to 12th Street; 12th Street from
Main Street to Walnut Avenue; and Walnut Avenue from 12th Street to 7th Street.
§15-546 INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED.
   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions given by the Council
by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections upon other than through streets where particular hazards exist
and to determine whether:
   (A)   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event shall be cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
   (B)   Vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different
street as provided in this code, in which event shall be cause to be erected a
yield sign at every place where yield is required.
§15-547 STOP OR YIELD SIGN CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Every stop or yield sign erected pursuant to this chapter shall bear
the word “Stop” or “Yield” in letters not less than eight inches in height for
a stop sign and not less than seven inches in height for a yield sign.
   (B)   Every stop or yield sign shall at night be rendered luminous by steady
or flashing internal illumination, by a fixed floodlight projected on the face
of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the sign.
   (C)   Every stop or yield sign shall be located as close as practicable to
the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if
there is no crosswalk, then the sign shall be located at the nearest line of
the intersecting roadway.
§15-548 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Except when directed by a police officer or traffic control signal,
every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection, indicated by a stop
sign, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection. In the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line before entering the intersection. If there is no
marked stop line, then the driver shall stop at the point nearest the
intersecting road where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on an
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   A driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or road, or
which is approaching so close as to constitute immediate hazard; but the driver
having so yielded may then proceed and the driver of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding.
§15-549 VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in observance
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing condition or
shall stop if necessary and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving and to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another road so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may then proceed and drivers
of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle
so proceeding. A driver who enters a yield intersection without stopping and
has or causes a collision with a pedestrian at a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection shall prima facie be considered not to have yielded as required
herein.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not release the drivers of other
vehicles approaching the intersection at such a distance as not to constitute
immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to avoid a collision. The
driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for safety to stop
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection
before entering the intersection; if there is no crosswalk, the driver shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if there is no stop line, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
§15-550 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter, leave or cross a highway from or
into a private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-404
§15-551 VEHICLES ENTERING TRAFFIC FROM PARKING.
   (A)   Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb
shall yield the right-of-way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from
the rear.
   (B)   The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after
the driver has given the appropriate signal which indicates his or her
intention of turning from the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle
shall in no event enter the line of traffic until the driver has ascertained
that no hazard exists.
§15-552 EMERGING FROM THE ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-704
§15-553 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
§15-554 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagperson gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing; or
      (5)   The tracks at such crossing are not clear.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
§15-555 CERTAIN VEHICLES TO STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of a bus, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-105, whether the bus is
occupied or unoccupied by passengers, shall not cross a railroad track or
tracks at grade unless the driver stops the bus within 50 feet of, and not
closer than 15 feet to, the tracks, listens and looks in each direction along
the tracks for an approaching train, and ascertains that no train is
approaching. When it is safe to do so, the driver may drive the bus across the
tracks in a gear that permits the bus to complete the crossing without a change
of gears. The driver shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   Any commercial motor vehicle as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5 shall
comply with the railroad crossing provisions as prescribed in 49 C.F.R. §
392.10.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-702
§15-556 TEXTING AND DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway within the city while using a handheld electronic
communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic text
message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (A) above shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply if the person is
using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for the sole
purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an imminent
emergency situation:
      (1)   An emergency response operator;
      (2)   A hospital, physician’s office or health clinic;
      (3)   A provider of ambulance services;
      (4)   A provider of firefighting services; or
      (5)   A law enforcement agency.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CELLULAR TELEPHONE. An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the federal communications commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
      COMPOSE, SEND or READ. With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic device that permits the
user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a handsfree device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
      TEXT MESSAGE. Includes a text-based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail.
(Ord. 1743, passed 10-27-2015)
CHAPTER 6: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
15-601   Authority to install traffic control devices
   
15-602   Traffic control devices; uniform requirements
   
15-603   Obedience to official traffic control devices
   
15-604   When official traffic control devices required for enforcement
purposes
   
15-605   Traffic control signal legend
   
15-606   Pedestrians; signal indicators regulations
   
15-607   Flashing signals
   
15-608   Unauthorized traffic control devices prohibited
   
15-609   Defacement of traffic control devices
   
15-610   Play streets, authority to establish
   
15-611   Play streets, restriction on use
   
15-612   Designation of crosswalks and safety zones
   
15-613   Traffic lanes
§15-601 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the
Council may give by motion or resolution, shall have placed and maintained
traffic control signs, signals and devices when and as required under the
traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the provisions of such
ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such additional traffic control
signs, signals and devices as he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic
under the traffic ordinances of this city or under state law or to guide or
warn traffic.
   (B)   The City Traffic Authority may have traffic control devices tested
under actual conditions of traffic.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-201 et seq.
§15-602 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conformity. All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall
conform to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices approved by the State
Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Uniformity.
      (1)   All signs, signals and devices required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and relative
location throughout the city.
      (2)   All traffic control devices erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this chapter shall be official traffic control
devices.
   (C)   Exceptions. An exception may be made to the uniform requirements for
street name signs to allow for flexibility of design contingent upon the
following:
      (1)   Exceptions shall be granted only for a street name sign(s) and/or
the pole(s) or post(s) on which the street name sign(s) is mounted or affixed;
      (2)   All street name signs and poles or posts on which street name signs
are mounted or affixed shall comply with state law, the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), current edition in effect at the time of
placement of the street name signs and poles or posts on which street name
signs are mounted or affixed, and American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Official (AASHTO) standards;
      (3)   The design and implementation of special street name signs and the
poles or posts on which the special street name signs are mounted or affixed
shall be consistent throughout the subdivision or addition in which the special
street name signs are placed;
      (4)   Special street name signs and/or the poles or posts on which the
special street name signs are mounted or affixed may be installed only at the
time of development of an addition to the city;
      (5)   (a)   The person or persons proposing to install special street
name signs and/or the poles or posts on which the special street name signs are
mounted or affixed shall submit a written application, including design
details, to the City Engineer for consideration and shall receive approval of
same prior to installation.
         (b)   The city shall have the sole right to determine the
acceptability of the design of said special street name signs and/or the poles
or posts on which the special street name signs are mounted or affixed; and
      (6)   If damaged or missing special street name signs and/or poles or
posts to which the special street name signs are mounted or affixed are not
replaced by the developer or neighborhood residents within 30 days of report of
same being received by the city, the city may replace said special street name
signs and/or poles or posts to which the special street name signs are mounted
or affixed with standard street signs, poles or posts.
(Ord. 1677, passed 6-23-2009)
§15-603 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this part.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201
§15-604 WHEN OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT
PURPOSES.
   No provision of this chapter for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
§15-605 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have
the following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians:
      (1)   Green alone, “go.”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited, may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless an official sign at such
place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any pedestrian lawfully within
the intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal displays green
shall have the right-of-way over such vehicular traffic; and
         (b)   Pedestrian traffic, facing a green signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless a “walk” signal
indicator is operating.
      (2)   Steady yellow or amber alone, “caution.”
         (a)   The showing of such signal color following green shall
constitute a warning that the “red” or “stop” signal will be exhibited
immediately thereafter; and
         (b)   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near
side crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so
near the limit line when the “caution” signal first flashes that a stop cannot
be made in safety, in which event vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the “red” signal flashes.
      (3)   Red alone, “stop.”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk and shall remain standing until green or “go” is shown alone.
Except where official signs are erected prohibiting such turns, vehicles in the
right traffic lane, after making a full stop as required, may enter the
intersection cautiously and make a right turn, but such vehicles shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrians or other traffic in the intersection and
the turn shall be made so as not to interfere in any way with traffic
proceeding on a green signal indication on the cross street; and
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter or cross the
roadway when such movement interferes with traffic proceeding on a green signal
indication on the cross street, or when the movement cannot be made in safety.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green or
“go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so, by a pedestrian “walk” signal.
      (4)   Steady red with green arrow.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal when in the proper traffic
lane may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated
by the arrow, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the movement
indicated by the green arrow is a left turn, the left turn shall be made only
on the red with green arrow signal; and
         (b)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with vehicular traffic.
      (5)   Green arrows alone. Whenever vehicular traffic movements are
controlled by green arrows alone and not displayed with any other signal
indication, vehicles facing such signals may make the movements indicated by
the green arrows and the movements shall be made only when the green arrows are
displayed.
   (B)   (1)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which, by their
nature, can have no application.
      (2)   Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-202
§15-606 PEDESTRIANS; SIGNAL INDICATORS REGULATIONS.
   Special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk,” “wait” or
“don’t walk” shall regulate pedestrian movement as follows.
   (A)   “Walk.” Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” or “don’t walk.” No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his or her crossing on the “walk” signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
zone while the “wait” signal is showing.
§15-607 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated signal is flashing red or yellow, it shall
require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red. When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow. When a yellow light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection,
or pass such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-204
§15-608 UNAUTHORIZED TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information which are
of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device may be removed
without notice.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-206
§15-609 DEFACEMENT OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down, remove or have
in his or her possession any traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal or an inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any part thereof.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any of the following persons when
acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      (1)   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      (2)   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-207
§15-610 PLAY STREETS, AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the Council may
give, shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street
and to have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and
helping to protect the same.
§15-611 PLAY STREETS, RESTRICTION ON USE.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area; and then any such driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
§15-612 DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the Council may
give, may:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his or her
opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he or she may deem necessary; and
   (B)   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
§15-613 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the
Council may give, may be authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the
roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-309
CHAPTER 7: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING GENERALLY
Section
   
15-701   Illegal parking declared public nuisance
   
15-702   Application of standing or parking regulations
   
15-703   Parking time limits may be established; signs
   
15-704   Parking more than 24 hours
   
15-705   Brakes; motor not to be left running; unattended vehicles
   
15-706   Signs or markings indicating angle parking; angle parking streets
   
15-707   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings
   
15-708   Parking in spaces marked off
   
15-709   Permits for loading or unloading at an angle to the curb
   
15-710   Hazardous or congested places; stopping, standing, parking
   
15-711   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
15-712   Blocking of intersection or crosswalk prohibited
   
15-713   Standing or parking on one-way roadway
   
15-714   Standing or parking on left side of one-way streets
   
15-715   Parking prohibited at intersections
   
15-716   Parking in alleys, blocking driveways
   
15-717   Entry on private property; trespass; evidence; burden of proof
   
15-718   Parking of certain commercial vehicles on public streets in
residential and commercial areas
   
15-719   Handicapped parking
   
15-720   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
15-721   Method of parking, standing or parking close to curb
   
15-722   Negligent parking
   
15-723   Right-of-way to parallel parking space
§15-701 ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this chapter
governing, limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any
street or public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance, and each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for
such violation shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or
operator of such vehicle.
§15-702 APPLICATION OF STANDING OR PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary
for a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
§15-703 PARKING TIME LIMITS MAY BE ESTABLISHED; SIGNS.
   (Repealed by Ord. 1762, passed 11-8-2016)
§15-704 PARKING MORE THAN 24 HOURS.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer
than 24 hours. This section shall not affect parking limits established for
shorter periods.
§15-705 BRAKES; MOTOR NOT TO BE LEFT RUNNING; UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   The person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall not permit it to
stand unattended without first stopping the engine and effectively setting the
brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the street.
§15-706 SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING; ANGLE PARKING STREETS.
   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the Council may
give by motion or resolution, shall determine upon what streets and parts of
streets angle parking shall be permitted and shall have such streets marked or
signed; provided, however, that angle parking shall not be permitted on any
federal aid or state highway, unless the State Department of Highways has
determined that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle parking
without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1004(C)
§15-707 OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS.
   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
§15-708 PARKING IN SPACES MARKED OFF.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
streets a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
§15-709 PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT AN ANGLE TO THE CURB.
   (A)   (1)   The City Traffic Authority or Chief of Police is authorized to
issue special permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the
purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms
and conditions of such permit.
      (2)   Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. The City Traffic Authority
may revoke such permits at any time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any such permit.
§15-710 HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES; STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING.
   (A)   The City Traffic Authority is hereby authorized to determine and
regulate by proper signs the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles when
such stopping, standing or parking would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, as
authorized in division (A) above, no person shall violate such signs.
§15-711 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except in emergencies
or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of
the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant except in a parking space
officially marked;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; or
      (15)   In an area marked by sign or other means as a fire zone.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb.
(Ord. 1368, passed 3-28-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1003
§15-712 BLOCKING OF INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK PROHIBITED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed.
§15-713 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAY.
   (A)   If a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
   (B)   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the
Council may give by motion or resolution, may determine when standing or
parking may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-way roadway
and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
§15-714 STANDING OR PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Traffic Authority may have signs erected upon the left-hand side of
any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles. When the
signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of any
such signs.
§15-715 PARKING PROHIBITED AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets intersect shall be
prohibited 15 feet in advance of the crosswalk on the near side of such
intersection.
§15-716 PARKING IN ALLEYS, BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS.
   No person, other than the operator of a U.S. Postal Service vehicle engaged
in collecting or delivering U.S. mail, shall park a vehicle within a street or
alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than
ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular
traffic. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley
in such position as to block a driveway entrance to any abutting property. No
person shall park or stand a vehicle in any alley except while actually engaged
in loading or unloading passengers or freight.
§15-717 ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRESPASS; EVIDENCE; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon real property
owned or legally occupied by another without the owner’s or occupant’s consent
except where such private property is provided as public parking and the
general use of the property is not restricted by signs or proper markings.
   (B)   Where entry is made upon real property owned or legally occupied by
another without the owner’s or occupant’s consent, except on unrestricted
public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal occupant of the
premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to show that
permission for such entry was given.
§15-718 PARKING OF CERTAIN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS IN RESIDENTIAL
AND COMMERCIAL AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall park any commercial vehicle, other than pickup trucks
of three-quarter ton classification or lighter, on any public street in any
residential area.
   (B)   No person shall park any commercial vehicle, other than trucks of one
and one-half ton classification or lighter, on any public street in any
commercial area during nighttime hours.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above, a
commercial vehicle may be parked so as not to create a traffic hazard during
active loading or unloading.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, STREET shall mean the entire width
between the curbs of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
§15-719 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such has
applied for and been issued a detachable insignia or reflective insignia as a
physically disabled person under the provisions of 47 O.S. § 15-112, and such
insignias are displayed as provided in 47 O.S. § 15-112 or regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
   (B)   A civilian volunteer parking enforcement unit may be established by
the Chief of Police for enforcement of this section providing:
      (1)   Each volunteer is required to participate in and complete a
training program of no less than two hours in length;
      (2)   Each volunteer is assigned an identification number and provided
with official identification and equipment to assist volunteers in the conduct
of their duties;
      (3)   Uniform procedures are to be established for volunteers to follow
in determining whether a violation has occurred;
      (4)   Uniform procedures are to be established for reporting violations,
including the identification number of the volunteer;
      (5)   Photographs of violators’ vehicles are taken for each citation
written;
      (6)   Only Police Department personnel are authorized to process or
contract for processing of all film submitted by volunteers;
      (7)   All photographs evidencing a violation are required to be available
for inspection in any proceeding to adjudicate the liability for such
violation;
      (8)   A certificate, sworn to or affirmed by a Police Department
employee, based upon the inspection of photographs produced from film submitted
by volunteers, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts contained therein;
and
      (9)   All such photographs are prohibited for use for any other purpose
than as evidence of a handicapped parking violation.
   (C)   A notice of violation shall be sent by first class mail to each person
alleged to be liable as an owner for a violation of a handicapped parking law
or ordinance. A manual or automatic record of mailing prepared in the ordinary
course of business shall be prima facie evidence of the facts contained
therein.
      (1)   A notice of violation shall reference the law which was allegedly
violated, and shall contain the name and address of the person alleged to be
liable as an owner for a violation of a handicapped parking law or ordinance,
the license tag number of the vehicle involved in such violation, the location
where such violation took place, the date and time of such violation and the
identification number of the volunteer who recorded the violation.
      (2)   A notice of violation shall contain information advising the person
charged of the manner and time in which he or she may contest the violation
alleged in the notice and shall also contain a warning to advise the persons
charged that failure to contest in the manner and time provided shall be deemed
an admission of liability and that a default judgment may be entered thereon.
   (D)   Any person who violates this provision, either willfully or through
failure to exercise due care and control, is subject to the penalties
prescribed in §
1-108.
   (E)   Upon conviction of provisions of this section, the Police Department
shall have the authority:
      (1)   To confiscate the placard if not valid or used fraudulently, report
the conviction and send the placard to the State Department of Public Safety;
and
      (2)   To dedicate not less than 12.5% of any fine that resulted from
citations or for violations of the handicapped parking regulations to be
deposited in a special dedicated fund to be used by the city for the sole
purpose of establishing, maintaining and perpetuating a citizen volunteer
handicapped parking violation unit.
   (F)   In addition to penalty, any person violating this section shall pay
any and all reasonable and necessary charges incurred by the landowner or other
person in having any motor vehicle removed from the property and stored.
   (G)   (1)   A person charged with failure to display a handicap sign prior
to arraignment pursuant to division (A) above, may present proof to the
municipal court clerk that he or she had a handicap permit when issued the
citation, and the citation shall be dismissed.
      (2)   The municipal court clerk shall have the authority to dismiss the
citation without cost without obtaining court approval if the citation is a
first offense.
(Ord. 1545, passed 2-12-2002; Ord. 1590, passed 11-23-2004)
§15-720 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   (C)   Washing, cleaning or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
§15-721 METHOD OF PARKING, STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs, shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb.
   (B)   Any vehicle stopped or parked upon the left-hand side of a one-way
street where there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left-
hand wheels parallel to and within 18 inches of the left-hand curb.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1004
§15-722 NEGLIGENT PARKING.
   No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or leave unattended any
vehicle as follows:
   (A)   In a careless or negligent manner;
   (B)   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person or property; or
   (C)   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets.
§15-723 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PARALLEL PARKING SPACE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking space
where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by another
vehicle shall stop his or her vehicle to the rear of the parking space until
the vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He or she then
shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space over any other
vehicle attempting to park therein.
   (B)   The first of two or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy, shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space.
CHAPTER 8: LOADING
Section
   
15-801   Definitions
   
15-802   Curb loading zones, designation
   
15-803   Loading zones to be used only for designated purpose
   
15-804   Stopping, standing or parking in passenger curb loading zone
   
15-805   Stopping, standing or parking in freight curb loading zone
   
15-806   Designation of public carrier stops and stands
   
15-807   Use of bus and taxicab stands restricted
   
15-808   Stopping, standing and parking of buses and taxis
§15-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name of the owner
or his or her business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly used
during normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise or
freight and which bears a regular state commercial license tag; and
      (2)   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during
normal business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight,
and which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the city at the rear
of the vehicle, attached to the state license plate, together with an
identically numbered decal, issued vehicle.
   FREIGHT LOADING ZONES. All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment or resale.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONES. All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers except bus stops,
taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles.
§15-802 CURB LOADING ZONES, DESIGNATION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the
Council may give by motion or resolution, may determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall have placed and maintained
appropriate signs indicating the zones and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
      (2)   By the same authority, such zones may be changed or discontinued.
   (B)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of signs erected
in accordance with this section.
   (C)   If any loading zone is established on request of any person, the signs
shall not be placed until the applicant pays to the city an amount of money
estimated by the City Council to be adequate to reimburse the city for all
costs of establishing and signing the same.
§15-803 LOADING ZONES TO BE USED ONLY FOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE.
   No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone except as may be specifically provided by law.
§15-804 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person, other than the operator of a U.S. postal vehicle engaged in
collecting or delivering U.S. mail, shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a
passenger curb loading zone for any purpose or period of time other than for
the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, during the hours when the
regulations applicable to such curb loading zones are effective, and then only
for a period not to exceed three minutes.
§15-805 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person, other than the operator of a U.S. postal vehicle engaged in
collecting or delivering U.S. mail, shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a
commercial curb loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for
the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and loading of materials
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
Vehicles using any commercial loading zone are subject to the licensing
requirements and regulations provided by this chapter.
   (B)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone.
§15-806 DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the Council may
give by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized and required to establish
bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common
carrier motor vehicles on such public streets, in such places and in such
number as he or she shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public. Every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand or
other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs. By the same authority,
such stops and stands may be changed or discontinued.
§15-807 USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED.
   No person, other than the operator of a U.S. postal vehicle engaged in
collecting or delivering U.S. mail, shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other
than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any
such stop or stand has been officially designated and the appropriate signs are
in place. The driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers
when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter
or about to enter the zone.
§15-808 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXIS.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
except in loading areas designated as provided herein, except in case of an
emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement
of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator
of a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
CHAPTER 9: TURNING MOVEMENTS
Section
   
15-901   Turning markers or indicators
   
15-902   Designation of restricted turns
   
15-903   U-turns
   
15-904   Position and method of turning
   
15-905   Turning movements and required signals
   
15-906   Means of giving turn signals
   
15-907   Method of giving hand and arm signals
§15-901 TURNING MARKERS OR INDICATORS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the
Council may give by motion or resolution, is authorized to place markers,
buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to
be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to be
traveled, as so indicated, may conform to or be other than as prescribed by
law.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
§15-902 DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Authority, subject to any directions which the
Council may give by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine
those street intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right,
left or U-turns, and shall have proper signs placed at the intersections. The
making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours. Where turns are restricted during certain hours
pursuant to this section, the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or
they may be removed when turns are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the
directions of any such sign.
§15-903 U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street in the city except at an
intersection, or make such a turn for the purpose of parking on the opposite
side of the street. It is unlawful to make a U-turn at the following locations:
      (1)   At intersections controlled by traffic control devices or signals
when a U-turn is specifically prohibited by properly placed and maintained “no
U-turn” signs;
      (2)   Where a police officer is directing traffic except at the latter’s
direction; or
      (3)   At any other location where an official “no U-turn” has been placed
and is maintained.
   (B)   A U-turn may be made only when it can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U-turn except in the
following manner:
      (1)   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the
right curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a
signal for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn
across the intersection;
      (2)   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      (3)   By yielding the right-of-way at all times to all vehicles until
such turn is completed; and
      (4)   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle.
(Ord. 1278, passed 1-12-1988)
§15-904 POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of a
right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge
of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
the approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of the centerline
where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection, the left
turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon roadway being entered.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-601
§15-905 TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §
15-904, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so
turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, slow or stop, when
required, shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle before turning or stopping.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
the signal.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-604
§15-906 MEANS OF GIVING TURN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by
means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or mechanical device of a
type approved by the State Department of Public Safety, except as provided in
division (B) below.
   (B)   A vehicle shall be equipped with, and the required signal given by,
signal lamps or devices when:
      (1)   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle projects 24
inches or more to the left of the center of the steering wheel;
      (2)   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not be
visible both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
      (3)   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle
projects 14 feet or more beyond the center top of the steering post.
§15-907 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed. Hand and arm extended downward with palm to
the rear.
CHAPTER 10: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
15-1001   Pedestrians subject to traffic control signals
   
15-1002   Pedestrians’ right-of-way at crosswalks
   
15-1003   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk
   
15-1004   Crossing at right angles
   
15-1005   When pedestrians shall yield
   
15-1006   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
15-1007   Pedestrians prohibited from soliciting rides, business or donations
from vehicle occupants
   
15-1008   Drivers to exercise due care
   
15-1009   Crossing prohibited
   
15-1010   Obedience of pedestrians to railroad signals
   
15-1011   Wheelchair operators, same rights and duties as pedestrians
§15-1001 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians are subject to traffic control signals as provided for in this
part, but at all other places pedestrians are granted those rights and are
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-501 through 11-507
§15-1002 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way slowing down or
stopping, if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk when:
         (a)   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
         (b)   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge
of the roadway as to be in danger.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (A) are not applicable under
conditions where pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety or
walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any unmarked
crosswalk, or at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake to
pass such stopped vehicle.
§15-1003 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a crosswalk, shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of the crosswalk.
§15-1004 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
§15-1005 WHEN PEDESTRIANS SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The provisions of this section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited.
§15-1006 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall, when practical, walk only on
the left side of the roadway, or its shoulder, facing traffic which may
approach from the opposite direction, and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
§15-1007 PEDESTRIANS PROHIBITED FROM SOLICITING RIDES, BUSINESS OR DONATIONS
FROM VEHICLE OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for purpose of soliciting a ride,
donations, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Stand in any street, roadway or park and stop or attempt to stop
and engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting
contributions or the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about
to be parked on a street;
      (2)   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
      (3)   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift; or
      (4)   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose.
§15-1008 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway.
§15-1009 CROSSING PROHIBITED.
   Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk.
§15-1010 OBEDIENCE OF PEDESTRIANS TO RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
§15-1011 WHEELCHAIR OPERATORS, SAME RIGHTS AND DUTIES AS PEDESTRIANS.
   Every person operating a wheelchair or a motorized wheelchair shall have all
of the rights and all of the duties applicable to a pedestrian contained in 47
O.S. Chapter 11, except those provisions which by their nature can have no
application.
CHAPTER 11: BICYCLES
Section
   
15-1101   Application of bicycle regulations
   
15-1102   Application of traffic laws to bicycles
   
15-1103   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
15-1104   Riding on bicycles
   
15-1105   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
15-1106   Speed of bicycle
   
15-1107   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
15-1108   Carrying articles
   
15-1109   Parking
   
15-1110   Riding on sidewalks
   
15-1111   Lamps and equipment on bicycles
   
15-1112   Impoundment of bicycles
§15-1101 APPLICATION OF BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated
upon any street or upon any public way; or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-1201 et seq.
§15-1102 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS TO BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state and the traffic provisions of this code applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature are
inapplicable to such persons.
§15-1103 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no right or left or
U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the directions
of such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to the pedestrians.
§15-1104 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
§15-1105 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   If usable paths for bicycles are provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the roadway.
   (D)   No person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall pass other
vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction.
§15-1106 SPEED OF BICYCLE.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
§15-1107 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley or driveway shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the alley or
driveway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area.
   (B)   Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle operator shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadways.
§15-1108 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars.
§15-1109 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against the building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
§15-1110 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall ride a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates,
rollerblades or similar device upon a sidewalk within the Business District.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, BUSINESS DISTRICT is defined as
the area south of the south boundary of the alley between Oak and Walnut, north
of the north boundary of the alley between Maple and Willow, east of the east
boundary of West 12th Street and west of the railroad tracks.
   (B)   The City Traffic Authority is authorized to have erected signs on any
sidewalk or roadway outside of the Business District prohibiting the riding of
bicycles, skateboards, roller skates, rollerblades or similar device thereon by
any person; and when such signs are in place, no person shall disobey same.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates,
rollerblades or similar device upon a sidewalk outside of the Business
District, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Ord. 1505, passed 6-13-2000)
§15-1111 LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Bicycles in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 1,000
feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be
visible from 50 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 600 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
§15-1112 IMPOUNDMENT OF BICYCLES.
   Whenever any person violates any provision of this chapter, in addition to
any other penalty prescribed for such violation, his or her bicycle may be
impounded for a period not to exceed ten days.
CHAPTER 12: MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
15-1201   Operator to ride on permanent seat
   
15-1202   Carrying passengers
   
15-1203   Headgear for operators and riders
   
15-1204   Windshield; goggles or face shield for operator
   
15-1205   Maximum height of handlebars
   
15-1206   Rearview mirrors
   
15-1207   Brakes
   
15-1208   Lights generally
   
15-1209   Stop lamp
   
15-1210   Speedometer
   
15-1211   Fenders
   
15-1212   Rider not to hold to other moving vehicles
   
15-1213   Passing other vehicles between traffic lanes
   
15-1214   Speed limit
§15-1201 OPERATOR TO RIDE ON PERMANENT SEAT.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto.
§15-1202 CARRYING PASSENGERS.
   No driver or operator of a motorcycle shall carry any other person on, upon
or within such vehicle on any street or highway in the city; provided, however,
that if any motorcycle with a wheel diameter of 12 inches or greater shall have
either a double seating device, with double footrests, or a sidecar attachment
for each person riding therein, so that such person shall be seated entirely
within the body of such sidecar, then it shall be permissible for an operator
who has attained the age of 16 years or older to carry a passenger. A
demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his or her employee is excepted from
the provisions of this section.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1103(B)
§15-1203 HEADGEAR FOR OPERATORS AND RIDERS.
   No person under 18 years of age shall operate or ride upon any motorcycle on
any street unless such person is equipped with and wearing on the head a crash
helmet of the type and design manufactured for use by the operators of such
vehicles. All crash helmets shall consist of lining, padding and chinstraps and
shall be of such type as not to distort the view of the wearer.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-609(B)
§15-1204 WINDSHIELD; GOGGLES OR FACE SHIELD FOR OPERATOR.
   All motorcycles operated on streets shall be equipped with a windshield of
sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect the operator from foreign
objects, except that, in lieu of such windshield, the operator may wear goggles
or a face shield of material and design to protect him or her from foreign
objects.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-609(A)(2)
§15-1205 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF HANDLEBARS.
   Handlebars on motorcycles shall not exceed 12 inches in height, measured
from the crown or point of attachment.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-609(C)
§15-1206 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   All motorcycles operated on streets shall be equipped with two mirrors
containing a reflection surface of not less than three inches in diameter,
mounted one on each side of the vehicle and positioned so as to enable the
operator to clearly view the roadway to the rear of his or her vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-609(A)(1)
§15-1207 BRAKES.
   Every motorcycle operated on streets shall be equipped with brakes adequate
to control the movement of same to stop and hold such vehicle, including two
separate means of applying the brakes, one means to be effective to apply the
brakes to the front wheel and one means to be effective to apply the brakes to
the rear wheels.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-608
§15-1208 LIGHTS GENERALLY.
   Every motorcycle operated on streets shall be equipped with at least one
lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least 600 feet in
the direction in which the vehicle is proceeding, and one taillamp mounted on
the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light plainly visible from at
least 1,000 feet to the rear. Lights required by this section shall be burning
whenever such vehicles are in motion.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-602, 12-602.1 and 12-603
§15-1209 STOP LAMP.
   Every motorcycle operated on streets shall be equipped with a stop lamp on
the rear of the vehicle, which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade
of color between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than 100
feet to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon
application of the service brake.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-605 and 12-606
§15-1210 SPEEDOMETER.
   All motorcycles operated in streets shall be equipped with a properly
operating speedometer capable of registering at least the maximum legal speed
limit for the vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-609(A)(3)
§15-1211 FENDERS.
   All motorcycles operated on streets shall be equipped with a fender over
each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the manufacturer.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-609(A)(4)
§15-1212 RIDER NOT TO HOLD TO OTHER MOVING VEHICLES.
   No rider of a motorcycle shall hold to any other moving vehicle for the
purpose of being propelled.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1103(C)
§15-1213 PASSING OTHER VEHICLES BETWEEN TRAFFIC LANES.
   No driver of a motorcycle shall pass other vehicles in between lanes of
traffic traveling in the same direction, authorized emergency vehicles
excepted.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1103(D)
§15-1214 SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motorcycle at a speed greater than the
legally posted speed limit; provided, in no event nor at any time shall an
operator under the age of 16 years drive a motorcycle on a highway which has a
minimum speed limit established and posted.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor driven cycle at a speed greater than
the legally posted speed limit; provided, in no event nor at any time shall any
operator drive a motor driven cycle at a speed greater than 35 mph.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorized scooter at a speed greater than
the legally posted speed limit; provided, in no event nor at any time shall any
operator drive a motorized scooter:
      (1)   At a speed greater than 25 mph; and
      (2)   On any roadway with a posted speed limit of greater than 25 mph.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-805
CHAPTER 13: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
Section
   
15-1301   Purpose and effect of impoundment provisions
   
15-1302   Duration of impoundment
   
15-1303   Police granted authority to impound vehicles
   
15-1304   Disabled vehicles
   
15-1305   Vehicles on bridge
   
15-1306   Arrest and detention of driver of vehicle
   
15-1307   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
15-1308   Illegal trespass by vehicle
   
15-1309   Vehicles blocking fire exits or hydrants
   
15-1310   Vehicles parked in intersection
   
15-1311   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
   
15-1312   Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations
§15-1301 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare and the safeguarding of property, and shall be
used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 954A and 955
§15-1302 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the
authority of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for
its release is received from an officer of the Traffic Violations Bureau or
other proper police officer.
   (B)   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
§15-1303 POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
§15-1304 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
§15-1305 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
§15-1306 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
§15-1307 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
§15-1308 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this code may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   (B)   If a violation of the provisions of this code occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   (C)   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this code
have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage.
§15-1309 VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
§15-1310 VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
§15-1311 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment
and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   (B)   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one
hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery, and if the
owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified,
the vehicle may be impounded.
§15-1312 VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations have been issued, pursuant to
this code for violation of an ordinance, and have not been presented as
required, may be impounded if parked in violation of any provision of this
part.
CHAPTER 14: PENALTIES
Section
   
15-1401   Obedience to traffic code
   
15-1402   Penalties
§15-1401 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   It is an offense against the city for any person to do any act
forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this part.
   (B)   It is an offense against the city for the parent of any child or for
the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this part.
   (C)   It is an offense for any person to authorize or knowingly to permit
any vehicle registered in his or her name to be driven or to stand or to be
parked in violation of any of the provisions of this part.
§15-1402 PENALTIES.
   Every person violating any of the provisions of this part containing the
traffic laws of the city shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined or punished as provided in §
1-108.
CHAPTER 15: GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
Section
   
15-1501   Definitions
   
15-1502   Operation of golf carts
   
15-1503   Operator
   
15-1504   Financial responsibility
   
15-1505   Time of operation
   
15-1506   Place of operation
   
15-1507   Occupants
   
15-1508   Traffic rules
   
15-1509   Penalty
   
15-1520   Police operated utility vehicles
§15-1501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by the
state or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with four wheels originally designed for operation on a
golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion motor.
   POLICE OPERATED UTILITY VEHICLE. A vehicle powered by an internal combustion
engine, manufactured and used exclusively for off-highway use, equipped with
seating for two or more people and a steering wheel, traveling on four or more
wheels and operated by the City Police Department.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1502 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   The operation of a golf cart on the city streets or at the city lakes is
strictly prohibited unless the golf cart is equipped and operated in full
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1503 OPERATOR.
   Only valid licensed drivers, 16 years of age or older and issued a driver’s
license from a State Bureau of Motor Vehicles may operate a golf cart on the
city streets or at the city lakes.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1504 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of a golf cart on the city streets or at the city lakes, must
have written verification of financial responsibility when operating a golf
cart.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1505 TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on the city streets or at the city lakes
during one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the
golf cart is equipped with two operating headlights (one on each side of the
front of the golf cart) and two operating taillights with brake lights (one on
each side of the rear of the golf cart) which are visible from a distance of
500 feet.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1506 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts may be operated on the city streets and at the city lakes,
which have a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less.
   (B)   Golf carts shall not be operated on city sidewalks.
   (C)   Golf carts may not be operated:
      (1)   On Highway 81;
      (2)   On Highway 7; or
      (3)   On Highway 7 Bypass.
   (D)   Golf carts may only make a perpendicular crossing of Highway 81 at the
following intersections:
      (1)   Plato Road and Highway 81;
      (2)   Elk Avenue and Highway 81; and
      (3)   Beech Avenue and Highway 81.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1507 OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the golf cart.
The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart, and no part of
the body of the operator or occupants shall extend outside the perimeter of the
golf cart while the golf cart is being operated on the city streets or at the
city lakes.
   (B)   No one under the age of eight years is allowed to ride on the back
seat of the golf cart unless accompanied by an adult.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1508 TRAFFIC RULES.
   All golf carts and the operation thereof shall be subject to all traffic
rules, in addition to the requirements set forth herein, as required by state
statutes governing the operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1509 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of
this code. Upon a finding by the court that an owner, lessee or operator of a
golf cart has violated any provision of this chapter, such person shall be
subject to a fine of not to exceed $150 for each offense, and the associated
court costs.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
§15-1520 POLICE OPERATED UTILITY VEHICLES.
   City police operated utility vehicles may be operated anywhere and at any
time within the city limits in the performance of authorized law enforcement
functions. Operation of the utility vehicle on any street or highway with speed
limits posted greater than 35 mph must be authorized by the Chief of Police or
his or her designee.
(Ord. 1807, passed 6-9-2020)
PART 16: TRANSPORTATION
Chapter
   
1.    AIRPORT
   
2.    TAXICABS
   
3.    RAILROADS
CHAPTER 1: AIRPORT
Section
Article A. Airport Commission, Facilities and Rules
   
16-101   Airport Commission
   
16-102   Duties
   
16-103   Definitions
   
16-104   Applicability
   
16-105   General rules
   
16-106   Aircraft operations
   
16-107   Ground operations
   
16-108   Landing and takeoff rules
   
16-109   Fire safety
   
16-110   Knowledge of rules implied
   
16-111   Conflict in rules
   
16-112   Penalties for violations
Article B. Airport Zoning
   
16-121   Airport Zoning Board
   
16-122   Penalty
 
ARTICLE A. AIRPORT COMMISSION, FACILITIES AND RULES
§16-101 AIRPORT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Airport Commission. It shall consist of
five members appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council for
overlapping terms of five years or until their respective successors have been
appointed. The term of one member shall begin at 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday
of May in every year. The City Council may remove a member for the good of the
service and may fill vacancies for unexpired terms. Members shall serve without
compensation.
   (B)   (1)   Every year, at the time prescribed for the beginning of the term
of a new member or as soon thereafter as practicable, the Airport Commission
shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson and a secretary; and the
secretary need not be a member of the Commission.
      (2)   It shall determine the time and place of its regular meetings.
      (3)   The City Manager, the Chairperson or any three members may call
special meetings of the Commissioners.
   (C)   The Airport Commission shall adopt such rules of order as it shall
deem necessary and proper for the conduct of its meetings, subject to the
provisions of the open meetings laws of the state, and shall keep minutes of
its meetings, which shall be public record.
(Ord. 1276, passed 12-8-1987; Ord. 1507, passed 6-27-2000; Ord. 1513, passed
10-10-2000; Ord. 1600, passed 5-10-2005)
§16-102 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Airport Commission shall serve as a recommendatory and advisory
commission on matters pertaining to the operation, maintenance and improvement
of Halliburton Field, the municipal airport.
   (B)   The Commission may investigate and report to the City Council on any
matter tending to the improvement of Halliburton Field or as directed by the
City Council.
(Ord. 1276, passed 12-8-1987)
§16-103 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Duncan Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. The manager of aviation for the city or the duly authorized
representative thereof.
   CITY. The city or may be referred to as the Airport Authority, Authority or
lessor.
   PERSON. Any individual, state, political body or any business, financial,
social, recreational or athletic association of any form whatsoever, and
includes any member, trustee, agent, employee, officer, receiver, assignee or
other representative of any of these.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-104 APPLICABILITY.
   These rules apply to each and every person and to each and every activity or
operation of any kind whatsoever on, in or about the property known as Duncan
Municipal Airport, Duncan, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-105 GENERAL RULES.
   The following rules shall be observed in the use, operation and conduct of
the airport.
   (A)   Conduct of business. No person shall use the airport or any part
thereof, or any airport facility, for revenue producing or commercial
activities without first securing an appropriate written lease, sublease or
permit from the city or its duly authorized representative and, having obtained
such document, without complying fully and completely with all of the terms and
conditions thereof, including the payment of rates and charges.
   (B)   Nonassumption of liability. Persons entering upon airport grounds do
so at their own risk. The city, its agents, officers and employees assume no
liability or responsibility and shall not be liable or responsible other than
as required by law, for any loss, damage, destruction, injury or death to any
person or persons or to any property by reason of any accident, incident,
occurrence or mishap of any nature whatsoever or from any cause whatsoever.
   (C)   Rates and charges. Aircraft and business operations on the airport
shall be subject to the rates and charges and use control policy or minimum
standards, as adopted or revised by the city for the Municipal Airport.
   (D)   Federal air traffic regulations. Regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration for aircraft operated anywhere in the United States, and
presently or hereafter effective, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as though fully set forth and incorporated herein.
   (E)   Damage to airport. Any person, corporate or individual, and the owner
of any aircraft causing damage of any kind to the airport, whether through
violation of any of these rules or through vandalism or any act of negligence,
shall be liable therefor in and to the city.
   (F)   Damage to field lights or fixtures. 
      (1)   Any person damaging any field light or airport fixture by operation
of an aircraft or otherwise shall immediately report such damage to the Airport
Manager.
      (2)   Persons causing damage to runway and taxiway lights or airport
fixtures will be liable for replacement cost of the lights or fixtures.
   (G)   Authority to suspend operations. The Airport Manager may suspend or
restrict any or all operations whenever such action is deemed necessary in the
interest of the public health, safety or welfare.
   (H)   Safeguard of persons and property. The Airport Manager shall at all
times have authority to take necessary and legal actions to safeguard any
person, aircraft, equipment or property at the airport.
   (I)   Lien for charges. To enforce the payment of any charge made for
repairs, improvements, storage or care of any personal property, made or
furnished by the city or its agents, in connection with the operation of the
airport, the city shall have a lien upon such personal property, which shall be
enforceable as provided by law.
   (J)   Commercial photography. No person shall take still, motion or sound
pictures or photographs for commercial purposes on airport property without the
written permission of the Airport Manager and unless the provisions of division
(A) above have been complied with.
   (K)   Advertisements. No person shall post, distribute, circulate or display
any signs, posters, advertisements, circulars or any other such printed,
painted or written materials without first obtaining the written permission of
the Airport Manager.
   (L)   Soliciting. No person shall solicit funds, goods, donations or pledges
on the airport without first securing the written permission of the Airport
Manager.
   (M)   Animals. No person shall enter the airport property with a dog or
other animal unless such dogs or other animals are restrained by a leash or
cage and kept under complete control.
   (N)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area which is posted with
signs reading “restricted,” “closed to the public” or the like, except:
      (1)   Persons assigned to duty in such areas;
      (2)   Persons authorized by the Airport Manager; and
      (3)   Passengers, under appropriate supervision, entering such areas for
the purpose of embarkation or debarkation.
   (O)   Unauthorized signs. No signs may be erected, moved in or installed on
the airport property except as may be specifically authorized by the Airport
Manager.
   (P)   Surreptitious activities. Any person observing suspicious,
unauthorized or criminal activities should report such activities immediately
to the airport, police or officers of the Department of Public Safety or other
peace officer.
   (Q)   Licensed pilots. Only aircraft and persons authorized by the FAA shall
be authorized to operate aircraft upon the airport. This limitation shall not
apply to students in training under licensed instructors nor to public aircraft
of the federal government or of a state, territory or political subdivision
thereof, or to aircraft licensed by a foreign government with which the United
States has a reciprocal agreement covering the operation of such licensed
aircraft.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-106 AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Registration. Every person owning an aircraft based at the airport
shall register the aircraft with the city at the office of the Airport Manager
within 72 hours from the time the aircraft arrives on the airport. Owners of
based aircraft which are permanently removed or flown from the airport shall
notify the office of the Airport Manager within 72 hours from the time the
aircraft leaves the airport. For the purpose of this chapter, BASED AIRCRAFT
means any aircraft which is parked on the airport property for a duration
exceeding 21 overnight periods in any year.
   (B)   Wrecked or disabled aircraft. The owner, pilot or operator of any
aircraft which becomes wrecked or disabled at the airport shall be responsible
for the prompt removal of the wrecked or disabled aircraft, and parts thereof,
as directed by the Airport Manager. In the event the owner, pilot or operator
fails to comply with such directions, the wrecked or disabled aircraft, and
parts thereof, may be removed by the Airport Manager at the expense of the
owner, pilot or operator.
   (C)   Accident reports. Persons involved in or witnessing an aircraft
accident on the airport shall report such accident to the Airport Manager’s
office or to the nearest law enforcement officer as soon as it is reasonably
possible to do so. Such persons shall make written reports as requested by the
Airport Manager.
   (D)   Noise abatement. All persons operating aircraft from the airport shall
comply with all noise abatement procedures, traffic patterns and policies as
may be established by the city and acceptable to FAA.
   (E)   Repairs and maintenance to aircraft. No aircraft shall be repaired on
any part of the landing or takeoff area. No aircraft shall be repaired or
maintained except in the locations designated by the Airport Manager for such
purpose.
   (F)   Substance abuse. No person shall use or knowingly allow the use of the
airport for the purpose of unlawfully driving a motor vehicle or aircraft under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage or any drug or for the purpose of
unlawfully selling, serving, using, storing, transporting, keeping,
manufacturing or giving away alcoholic beverages or any controlled substance,
precursor or analog specified in state statutes.
   (G)   Foreign objects. No foreign objects, including bottles, cans, scrap or
any object that may cause damage to an aircraft, shall be left upon the floor
of any building or upon any part of the surface area of the airport.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-107 GROUND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Public vehicular traffic. All public vehicular traffic shall be
confined to avenues of passage designated and provided for that purpose by the
Airport Commission and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 25 mph.
   (B)   Aircraft movement areas. No motorized equipment or vehicles shall be
operated on the aircraft ramps, or on the taxiway or runway except by persons
duly authorized to be in those areas by the airport.
   (C)   Parking. Vehicles shall be parked on the airport in the manner and at
the locations indicated by posted parking signs or painted markings.
   (D)   Fuel dispensing. All fuel dispensing activities, whether commercial or
private, must be authorized by the Airport Manager and performed in accordance
with this section.
      (1)   No aircraft shall be fueled from any delivery truck, fuel pump or
container unless the aircraft is located completely clear of any building or
hangar.
      (2)   Smoking or open flame within 50 feet of any aircraft or fuel truck
is prohibited;
      (3)   In all matters related to aircraft fueling safety the provisions of
the current NFPA manual 407 Aircraft Fuel Servicing, published and available
from the National Fire Protection Association, Incorporated, 470 Atlantic
Avenue, Boston, MA 02210, shall prevail.
      (4)   Aircraft shall not be fueled while the engine is running or while
in a hangar or other enclosed place.
      (5)   All aircraft will be positively grounded when being serviced with
fuel. Aircraft being serviced by a fuel truck will be grounded to the fuel
truck and the fuel truck will be positively grounded.
      (6)   Aviation or auto fuels shall not be stored within a hangar, without
written permission of the Airport Manager.
      (7)   Persons or aviation businesses wishing to supply and dispense
aviation fuel for their private use must first obtain permission from the
airport governing authority.
      (8)   (a)   Dispensing automobile gas for use in aircraft will not be
permitted on the airport without approval of the Airport Manager.
         (b)   Aircraft authorized by the FAA to use auto gas may be privately
fueled by their owner only after compliance with established rules adopted by
the city.
   (E)   Tie down and security of aircraft.
      (1)   All aircraft not hangared shall be tied down or secured at night
and during inclement weather.
      (2)   All aircraft owners or their agents are responsible for the tie
down and security of their aircraft at all times.
   (F)   Running aircraft engines.
      (1)   On aircraft not equipped with brakes, the engine shall not be
started until and unless the wheels have been set with blocks attached to ropes
or other suitable means for removing them.
      (2)   No airplane will be propped, started or left running without
qualified personnel in the cockpit at the controls.
      (3)   No aircraft engine shall be started or run inside any building.
      (4)   No aircraft engine shall be started, run or warmed up until and
unless the aircraft is in such position that the propeller stream or jet blast
will clear all buildings and groups of people.
   (G)   Taxiing aircraft.
      (1)   No person shall taxi an aircraft until he or she has ascertained
there will be no danger of collision with any person or object in the immediate
area.
      (2)   Aircraft will be taxied at a safe and prudent speed, and in such
manner as to be at all times under the control of the pilot.
      (3)   Aircraft not equipped with brakes will not be taxied near buildings
or parked aircraft unless an attendant is at a wing of the aircraft to assist
the pilot.
      (4)   Aircraft shall not taxi onto the runway if there is an aircraft
approaching to land, or on the ground in takeoff position.
      (5)   There shall be no taxiing of aircraft by engine power into or out
of hangars.
   (H)   Parking aircraft.
      (1)   Aircraft shall be parked or tied down only within areas so
designated by the Airport Manager for that purpose.
      (2)   Aircraft will not be parked in such a manner as to hinder the
normal movement of other aircraft and traffic.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the pilot when leaving a parked
aircraft unattended to see that the plane is properly chocked or tied down.
   (I)   Loading/unloading aircraft. Pilots are prohibited from loading or
unloading aircraft with the engine running.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-108 LANDING AND TAKEOFF RULES.
   (A)   Active runway. If the winds are calm or at a 90-degree crosswind,
pilots shall take off and land on runway 17.
   (B)   Hazardous operations. No pilot shall operate an aircraft in such
manner as to create a hazard to persons and property on the ground, nor land or
take off any fixed wing aircraft and commence a turn over any taxiway or ramp
or over hangars or other structures, automobile parking areas or groups of
spectators at an altitude below 500 feet above ground level (AGL).
   (C)   Use of radio. All pilots, when possible, shall communicate on the
published common traffic advisory frequency (CTAF) to determine the active
runway and to announce their position and intentions for takeoff and landing.
   (D)   Takeoffs on apron, ramps and taxiway. No takeoffs or landings shall be
made on the apron, parking ramp or taxiway except by special permission of the
Airport Manager.
   (E)   Takeoffs allowed. Pilots shall clear themselves from landing and
takeoff traffic before taxiing into takeoff position.
   (F)   Takeoff climb. On takeoff all aircraft shall climb straight out to an
altitude above 500 feet above ground level (AGL) and clear airport boundary
before executing a turn.
   (G)   Traffic pattern altitude. The traffic pattern altitude is 800 feet
above ground level (AGL) for small aircraft and 1,500 feet above ground level
(AGL) for jets and large aircraft.
   (H)   Traffic flow. All aircraft landing at the airport shall fly a left-
hand traffic pattern.
   (I)   Special procedures. The Airport Manager may, in the interest of
safety, designate traffic procedures for certain operations, such as air shows,
agricultural operations, lighter than air operations, ultralights and the like.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-109 FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   Compressed gas. Compressed flammable gas shall not be kept or stored
upon the airport, except at such place as may be designated by the Airport
Manager.
   (B)   Flammable substances. No flammable substance shall be used in cleaning
motors or other parts of an aircraft inside a hangar or other building. The
floors in all buildings shall be kept clean and free from oil. Volatile,
flammable substances shall not be used for cleaning floors.
   (C)   Smoking. No one shall smoke, ignite a match or lighter in any aircraft
tie down area, storage or maintenance hangar or in any building posted “no
smoking.”
   (D)   Litter. No boxes, crates, cans, bottles, paper, tall grass/weeds or
other litter shall be permitted to accumulate in or about a hangar.
   (E)   Fire extinguishers. At least one portable fire extinguisher shall be
available within 50 feet of any storage or maintenance hangar.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-110 KNOWLEDGE OF RULES IMPLIED.
   By publication of this chapter as required by law, all persons will be
deemed to have knowledge of its contents. However, the Airport Manager is
directed to have copies of the chapter printed and posted where appropriate.
Copies will be available at all times in the Airport Manager’s office, and
copies will be furnished to owners and operators of aircraft based on the
airport.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-111 CONFLICT IN RULES.
   If and where there is a conflict in these and the federal aviation
regulations (FARs), the latter shall prevail.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
§16-112 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Any person operating or handling an aircraft in violation of any of these
rules or refusing to comply with all sections therewith, may, at once, be
ejected from the airport, or may for any period of time, not exceeding 15 days,
be denied use of the airport by the Airport Manager and, upon hearing by the
City Council, may be deprived of the further use of the airport and its
facilities for such period of time as may appear necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(Ord. 1333, passed 1-26-1993)
ARTICLE B. AIRPORT ZONING
§16-121 AIRPORT ZONING BOARD.
   Where the city shall have established an Airport Zoning Board or Joint
Airport Zoning Board under the authority granted by 3 O.S., there shall be not
less than two members of the Airport Commission appointed by the City Council
as members of the Airport Zoning Board or Joint Airport Zoning Board. In such
instance that a Joint Airport Zoning Board shall be created, members of the
Board not holding an appointment to the Airport Commission shall be ex officio,
nonvoting members of the Airport Commission.
(Ord. 1276, passed 12-8-1987)
§16-122 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of any rule,
regulation, airport standard or ordinance which regulates and controls any
operation of the Municipal Airport, or who does any act prohibited by such
rules, regulations or standards, or who fails to do any act required by such
provisions contained in the rules, regulations, standards or ordinances shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided
in §
1-108.
(Ord. 1312, passed 6-25-1991)
CHAPTER 2: TAXICABS
Section
   
16-201   Definition
   
16-202   License issuance
   
16-203   Insurance
   
16-204   License may be revoked
   
16-205   Subject to police inspection
   
16-206   Reasonable rate for service
   
16-207   License period one year
   
16-208   Driver’s license
   
16-209   City Manager may prescribe stands
   
16-210   Loud noises prohibited
   
16-211   No discrimination in rates
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-118 and 47 O.S. § 1-174
§16-201 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE FOR HIRE. Any and all motor vehicles used by any person, firm or
corporation within the city for the purpose of conducting a general taxicab
business for the purpose of realizing a profit from the operation of the
vehicles.
§16-202 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation owning or operating a vehicle for hire
or a taxicab company in the city shall secure an operator’s license in the
amount as set by the Council per annum. The license fee shall include the
operation of one car and, for each additional car, a separate annual license
fee is levied. The fees shall be paid to the City Treasurer or his or her
designee. Applications for such license shall be made in writing to the City
Treasurer showing the name of the applicant, the number and make of each
vehicle, the motor number of each vehicle and proof of an identification device
issued by the corporation commission of the state. The license number assigned
to each vehicle by the City Manager shall be contained in the applications.
   (B)   In the event any such vehicle for hire is discontinued as such after a
license is issued for such vehicle, such license may be transferred to another
vehicle owned or operated by the person to whom the same is issued, provided an
insurance policy is secured as provided in this chapter, upon application to
the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 1653, passed 7-10-2007)
§16-203 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Before any license shall be issued to and for any vehicle for hire,
the owner or operator thereof shall have first filed with the City Treasurer a
public liability insurance policy or a certified copy thereof to be approved by
the City Treasurer before issuing such license. The liability under such
insurance policy shall be to the beneficiaries thereunder severally and
jointly.
   (B)   Such policies shall carry a personal injury liability to any person
who may be insured, in the following amounts.
 
Motor carriers of passengers (seating capacity includes the driver):
Taxicab service utilizing vehicles having a seating capacity of less
than 7 passengers not operated on a regular route or between         $100,000
specified points
Utilizing vehicles having a seating capacity of 15 passengers or     $1,000,000
less, other than as described in division (A) above
Utilizing vehicles having a seating capacity of 16 or more           $5,000,000
passengers
 
   (C)   No policy shall be accepted by the Treasurer unless the same is issued
by a licensed insurance company doing business in the state.
(Ord. 1653, passed 7-10-2007)
§16-204 LICENSE MAY BE REVOKED.
   (A)   Any such license so issued, as provided in this section, shall be
subject to revocation by the City Council at any time the Council shall find
that the vehicle has been or is being operated in a careless and dangerous
manner, or in violation of the ordinances of the city or the laws of the state,
or that the owner or operator thereof is an improper person to operate the
same.
   (B)   The owner or operator of such vehicle shall have reasonable notice of
the purported revocation of such license and may appear before the Council at a
hearing upon the proposed revocation of such license. Notwithstanding, any
person found to be in violation of this chapter may be cited and fined in
accordance with §
1-108.
(Ord. 1653, passed 7-10-2007)
§16-205 SUBJECT TO POLICE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Vehicles for hire shall at all times be subject to the inspection of
the police officers of the city.
   (B)   If the vehicles shall be found to be defective or unsafe in any way
for public use, the same shall not be operated or used by such owner or
operator as a vehicle for hire.
§16-206 REASONABLE RATE FOR SERVICE.
   The owner or operator of any vehicle for hire shall not charge an
unreasonable rate for their services and shall only charge such rate as may be
from time to time prescribed by the City Council.
§16-207 LICENSE PERIOD ONE YEAR.
   All licenses shall be for a period of one year ending April 30 following,
and no reduction in the established license rates shall be allowed for
fractional parts of a year. All licenses shall be on condition that the same
may be revoked at any time by the City Council.
§16-208 DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person who, in the service of another, shall drive or operate
any vehicle for hire shall first obtain a driver’s license therefor. For such
license, such driver shall pay a fee, as designated in the fee schedule, per
annum.
   (B)   No driver’s license shall be issued until the applicant shall make an
application, setting out such matters as may be prescribed by the City Manager,
showing his or her qualifications as such driver.
   (C)   Such application shall be made in writing to the City Treasurer. The
City Treasurer shall issue such license after he or she shall find that such
person is physically and mentally qualified as such driver, but no person under
the age of 21 years shall be issued a driver’s license.
   (D)   Such driver’s license may be revoked in the manner as provided herein
for revoking the license of an owner or operator of a vehicle for hire, at any
time the City Council shall find that such person has made misrepresentations
in his or her application for a license, or that he or she has been found
driving an automobile while under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or
shall find that such driver for any reason is an improper person to drive a
vehicle for hire.
§16-209 CITY MANAGER MAY PRESCRIBE STANDS.
   The City Manager may prescribe stands for vehicles for hire. When such
stands are prescribed by the City Manager such vehicles shall be parked in such
stands, and such stands or locations shall be restricted to vehicles for hire,
and no other persons shall use the same for parking purposes. Preference shall
be given in establishing such stands to vehicles for hire in the order of time
in which the owners or operators thereof have heretofore operated vehicles for
hire in regular service in the city, preference being given to operators who
have operated such vehicles a greater length of time.
§16-210 LOUD NOISES PROHIBITED.
   No persons shall, at any station or place, solicit any transportation
business by any loud noise or voice, instrument or other means.
§16-211 NO DISCRIMINATION IN RATES.
   Any owner or driver or operator of any vehicle for hire shall forfeit his or
her license at any time he or she shall make any discrimination of rates or
services to or against any person.
CHAPTER 3: RAILROADS
Section
   
16-301   Obstruction of streets by locomotives or cars
   
16-302   Crossings
   
16-303   Notice to repair tracks
   
16-304   Railroads must light crossing
   
16-305   Notice requiring lights at crossings
   
16-306   Unlawful not to comply with notice to repair tracks and light
crossings
   
16-307   Railroad companies shall construct crossings
   
16-308   Notice, how served
   
16-309   Lights on engines
   
16-310   Speed of railway trains
   
16-311   Penalty
§16-301 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS BY LOCOMOTIVES OR CARS.
   It is unlawful for any person or railroad company to obstruct any street,
alley, sidewalk or crossing within the city by leaving thereon any car,
locomotive or rolling stock for a longer time than ten minutes, or to stop or
cause to be stopped any railway engine or car across any road, street, alley,
highway or other passage so as to obstruct or interfere with free passage
thereon for a longer time than ten minutes.
§16-302 CROSSINGS.
   All railroad companies whose tracks now or may hereafter enter or pass
through the corporate limits of the city shall respectively construct, repair,
keep and maintain in good, safe condition sufficient culverts, crossings and
bridges, with good, safe and easy approaches thereto on all public alleys,
streets and highways where their respective tracks pass under, across or over
any alley, street or highway within the city.
§16-303 NOTICE TO REPAIR TRACKS.
   Whenever any crossing or culvert or bridge shall be needed upon the line of
any railroad within the city, or the same shall be deemed insufficient or
unsafe or shall need repairing, it is the duty of the City Manager or of the
Mayor to give such company five days’ notice of the work to be done and the
place which requires it; and in the event said railroad company neglects or
refuses to construct or repair such crossing, culvert or bridge after having
received the notice, said railroad company shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this section and shall be fined as hereinafter provided.
§16-304 RAILROADS MUST LIGHT CROSSING.
   Every railroad company whose track or tracks cross any street or streets of
the city is hereby required to keep each such crossing well lighted at all
times from dusk to daylight so that the traveled way and the limits thereof
shall be at all times visible. For that purpose, such railroad company is
required to provide, maintain and keep lighted with lights of not less than 100
candlepower for each separate track at each separate crossing.
§16-305 NOTICE REQUIRING LIGHTS AT CROSSINGS.
   Notice to any railroad company to provide lights at the crossings of the
railway with the streets of the city shall be given by the City Manager or
Mayor upon a resolution of the City Council and shall be served on the local
agent or representative of such railroad company. Such notice shall state the
place or places crossing or crossings should be lighted and any other necessary
facts to put the railroad company upon notice of the requirements.
§16-306 UNLAWFUL NOT TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE TO REPAIR TRACKS AND LIGHT
CROSSINGS.
   It is unlawful for any railroad to fail to make the repairs provided in this
chapter at all street crossings after due and proper notice is given, and it is
unlawful for any railroad company to fail to provide lights required at any
crossing or crossings after notice is given as herein provided.
§16-307 RAILROAD COMPANIES SHALL CONSTRUCT CROSSINGS.
   It is the duty of any railroad company operating within the corporate limits
of the city to construct at its own cost and expense safe, suitable and
convenient crossings where its tracks intersect any public street or
thoroughfare in the city, upon being notified in writing by the City Council so
to do. The notice shall prescribe the time within which such crossing shall be
constructed, and the time shall be as the City Council may consider reasonable,
equitable and just. In cases of unavoidable delay and after satisfactory proof
thereof by the railroad company, the City Council may extend the time for
making such improvements for such a period as may to the Council be reasonable
and just.
§16-308 NOTICE, HOW SERVED.
   The notices provided in the various sections of this chapter shall be served
upon the manager, superintendent or agent representing such railroad company
during office hours.
§16-309 LIGHTS ON ENGINES.
   All locomotive engines run or operated or caused to be run or operated on or
across any public street or within the corporate limits of the city between
sunset and sunrise, shall be equipped with a headlight so that the same shall
give a light forward in the direction which the engine may be moving, and the
headlight shall be at all times kept burning when such engine is moving between
the times named within the city.
§16-310 SPEED OF RAILWAY TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for any railway engine or train operated within the city
limits of the city to move at a greater rate of speed than 25 mph.
§16-311 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provisions, or who shall fail to do any act when such
provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
PART 17: UTILITIES
Chapter
   
1.    UTILITY SERVICES IN GENERAL
   
2.    WATER DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
   
3.    SEWER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
   
4.    ELECTRIC SYSTEM
   
5.    GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE
   
6.    PENALTY
CHAPTER 1: UTILITY SERVICES IN GENERAL
Section
   
17-101   Utility fees and billings in general
   
17-102   Failure to pay utility bills; penalty and disconnection of service
   
17-103   Utility taps and connections; fees; utility deposits
   
17-104   Other utility fees or charges
   
17-105   Personnel may inspect private premises
§17-101 UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   All fees and charges in connection with any customer’s use of the
sanitary sewer system, the water facility system, the collection and disposal
of refuse and garbage or the electrical service system are billed in accordance
with applicable rates set by motion or resolution of the city’s Utilities
Authority (“Authority”).
   (B)   All fees and charges owing for any of these utility services shall be
billed monthly. The utility bills submitted under the terms of this section are
payable on or before the past due date which is printed on the bill.
§17-102 FAILURE TO PAY UTILITY BILLS; PENALTY AND DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill for any
utility services pursuant to §
17-101 by the past due date which is printed on the bill, the following actions
and penalties may result.
      (1)   A penalty of all amounts owing on a utility bill may be added to
any utility bill which is not paid by the past due date printed on the bill.
      (2)   The authorized agents of the Authority may disconnect or
discontinue any or all utility services to the customer after mailing or
posting written notice or providing oral communications to the customer of the
intent to disconnect or discontinue any or all of the utility services.
      (3)   The authorized agents of the Authority, upon proper direction, may
discontinue to furnish water, electricity and/or other utility services to any
customer refusing or neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill
submitted after providing written or oral notice to the customer of the intent
of the Authority to discontinue the water, electrical and/or other utility
service.
   (B)   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to
this section, the Authority or its agents, shall not reconnect or reestablish
the service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is
paid, plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
   (C)   All utility bills for water, sewer, sanitary garbage and electricity
shall be due and payable on or before the twentieth day following the date of
billing set out in the statement furnished to the customer. The utility bill
shall be computed as follows.
      (1)   Each monthly utility bill shall also show the gross amount, which
is computed by adding to the net amount a sum equal to 2% of the net amount.
The gross amount, as above computed rather than the net amount, shall be due
and owing if the net amount is not paid on or before the twentieth day from the
date of billing set out in the statement furnished to the customer.
      (2)   Utility service shall be discontinued after the tenth day from the
due date set out in the statement furnished to the customer, if the utility
bill has not been paid in full. If service has been discontinued for nonpayment
and the meter is required to be locked, a service fee shall be charged for
restoring service. The Authority shall cause monthly utility bills to be mailed
or delivered to the utility customer; however, the failure of any customer to
receive such monthly utility statement shall not release any customer from the
obligations of this section, including the payment of delinquent charges and
service fees.
(Ord. 1158, passed 1-26-1982; Ord. 1506, passed 6-13-2000; Ord. 1637, passed 9-
12-2006)
§17-103 UTILITY TAPS AND CONNECTIONS; FEES; UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   (1)   The Authority shall approve any request within the city limits
for a water tap and connection, a sewer tap on an existing line or a sewer tap
on a new line and any electrical service connection. Prior to granting this
approval, the customer shall have paid the deposit and connection or tap charge
as applicable and set by motion or resolution.
      (2)   The deposit shall serve as a guarantee for the payment of charges
for utility service and other amounts owed in connection with the utility
service. It shall be held in trust by the Authority. When a customer’s utility
service is disconnected, the deposit or any part of such amount deposited which
remains after all such charges and amounts due the Authority have been
satisfied, shall be returned to the customer, or to the Authority if unclaimed
by the customer, after notice as required by law.
   (B)   A fee for reconnection of utility service where the service has been
turned off or a meter has been disconnected by the Authority for any reason
shall be set by the Authority. For any reconnection of utility service, the
charge shall be set by the Authority.
   (C)   Any person making an application for utility service shall make a
deposit with his or her application according to the following.
      (1)   Deposit defined. For the purpose of this section, a DEPOSIT is a
guarantee for payment of any and all bills rendered by the Authority to the
user of either electric, water, sewer and/or solid waste services.
      (2)   Schedule of deposits. Prior to establishment of utility services,
the Authority may require a minimum deposit in full, in accordance with the
following schedule.
 Homeowner Rental or Mobile Home Homeowner with Non-Timely Payments
                      Homeowner Rental or Mobile Home Homeowner with Non-Timely
                                                      Payments
Commercial accounts:
   Electric and wat$300
   Garbage only    $150
   Water and garbag$200
Residential accounts:
   Electric and wat$100      $200                  $250
   Garbage only    $40       $80                   $100
   Water and garbag$60       $120                  $150
 
      (3)   Higher deposit amount. However, the Authority reserves the right to
require a higher deposit amount if the customer has received service in the
past and has had service suspended for nonpayment or has a past due account
balance on a closed account. Existing customer deposits will be increased if
any of the following conditions occur: return of a check or draft item, service
order is issued for disconnect due to nonpayment; or unauthorized use of
service without proper authorization from the Authority.
      (4)   Authority discretion for deposit amount. The Authority may require
a minimum of two times the amount of the most recent 12-month average monthly
utility bill for any and all services or a maximum of two times the most recent
12-month period “highest” bill for any and all services.
      (5)   Transfer fee. Effective January 1, 2018, a fee of $20 per
transaction shall be assessed for transferring service to a customer from one
address to another address.
      (6)   Deposit amounts may be amended. The Authority shall from time to
time by motion or resolution set or amend the fees and charges for deposits by
customers of the water, electric and garbage system. A copy of the current fees
or charges shall be kept on file in the office of the city’s Utilities
Authority.
   (D)   (1)   The deposit shall be held by the City Clerk, and if at any time
the person making the deposit should desire to discontinue the use of utility
services, he or she shall notify the City Clerk, in writing, and shall
accompany his or her application with all arrears, if any, and in case the
application is not accompanied with the charges, then the city shall deduct
from the deposit the amount of utility charges against all accounts held by the
person, if any, shall be returned to the person making the application.
      (2)   Notwithstanding, those utility customers possessing an outstanding
credit rating and who have paid all bills owed to the City Public Utilities
Authority, the bills being paid in a timely manner, for the 12-month period
preceding the enactment of this section, shall be refunded in full those
amounts placed with the city as security utility deposits.
      (3)   Further, that all utility customers placing a security utility
deposit with the city from the date of the enactment of this section shall be
eligible to have the utility deposit refunded after a period of five years from
the time the deposit is placed with the city if all payments due and owing the
utility are made in a timely manner. For the purpose of this division (D),
PAYMENT IN A TIMELY MANNER is defined as payment within 30 days from the
billing date.
   (E)   Those individuals who have been refunded a security deposit, but who
have not made required payments twice within a 12-month period shall be
required to replace the security deposit with the city at its current level, or
the utility service will be discontinued.
(Ord. 1226, passed 6-26-1984; Ord. 1246, passed 8-13-1985; Ord. 1771, passed
11-28-2017)
§17-104 OTHER UTILITY FEES OR CHARGES.
   The Authority and City Council from time to time by motion or resolution
have the power to establish rates and charges governing all aspects of the
utility services, including monthly service fees, connection fees/charges and
deposits.
§17-105 PERSONNEL MAY INSPECT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Authority personnel in the service of the utility systems may enter any
private premises served by the water, electricity, sewer or other utility
systems at any reasonable time and inspect the pipes, lines, fixtures and
connections on the premises.
CHAPTER 2: WATER DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
Section
   
17-201   Water system as public utility
   
17-202   Water rates
   
17-203   Application for water service
   
17-204   One premises to a tap; subsidiary connection and cross-connection
prohibited
   
17-205   Turning on water; permit
   
17-206   Water may be cut off
   
17-207   Water to be turned back on only by the Authority
   
17-208   Customers to keep service pipes in good repair
   
17-209   Discontinuance of service; notice
   
17-210   Vacant property; notice to secure remit
   
17-211   Account against the number of property and premises described;
exception
   
17-212   Water for building and construction purposes to be charged against
property
   
17-213   Right reserved to shut off water
   
17-214   Waste of water prohibited
   
17-215   Meters; administrative review
   
17-216   Testing meters
   
17-217   Reservoirs protected
   
17-218   Temporary or periodic restrictions on water usage
   
17-219   Notice
   
17-220   Restrictions on water use
   
17-221   Exemptions
   
17-222   Penalties for violations of Stage 2, Stage 3, Stage 4 or Stage 5
prohibitions
   
17-223   Interference with meters; averaging charges
§17-201 WATER SYSTEM AS PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The water system of the Authority is declared to be a public utility and a
proper source of revenues and expenditures for the upkeep and maintenance of
the water system.
§17-202 WATER RATES.
   The Authority shall from time to time by motion or resolution set or amend
the fees and charges for water use by customers of the water system. A copy of
the current fees or charges shall be kept on file in the office of the city’s
Utilities Authority.
§17-203 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to secure water from the Authority shall
make an application therefor to the Authority on an application form to be
provided. The applicant shall give such reasonable information as the Authority
may request.
      (2)   The applicant agrees, by making such application, that he or she
will abide by all ordinances, rules and regulations governing the water system.
   (B)   Any person making application for water service or posting a deposit
with the Authority shall be deemed to have applied also for garbage service and
shall be considered a customer of the Authority until such time as water
service to such customer has been discontinued.
§17-204 ONE PREMISES TO A TAP; SUBSIDIARY CONNECTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Not more than one premises may be connected to any one tap. No
customer shall make or permit to be made any subsidiary connection of another’s
premises with his or her water service. A cross-connection with another water
supply shall not be permitted.
   (B)   The Authority may require separate service for separate premises,
buildings or houses.
§17-205 TURNING ON WATER; PERMIT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to turn the water on to any premises
from the municipal water system except by permission of the Authority. Water
shall not be turned on until the plumbing has been installed and is in
operation as provided by ordinance and until any and all deposits and charges
have been paid.
   (B)   No person may connect with the water system until all fees and the
application is filed and a permit is issued to the applicant. Any such
connection shall meet the requirements by the city’s plumbing code and other
applicable requirements.
§17-206 WATER MAY BE CUT OFF.
   Water may be cut off and service discontinued for any user of water from the
municipal water system for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to the water system or
violation of any ordinance provision or any provision of any code adopted by
reference relating to water and sanitary plumbing;
   (B)   Any act or omission in regard to the water system or sanitary sewer
system, the use of water or the disposal of liquid wastes, which jeopardizes
the public health or safety, creates a public nuisance or interferes with the
rights of others; or
   (C)   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge in connection
with the utilities by the time the bill becomes delinquent.
§17-207 WATER TO BE TURNED BACK ON ONLY BY THE AUTHORITY.
   When the water of any customer has been turned off by Authority personnel,
it shall not again be turned on except by permission of the Authority.
§17-208 CUSTOMERS TO KEEP SERVICE PIPES IN GOOD REPAIR.
   All customers using water shall keep their service pipes, stopcocks and
other water apparatus in good repair and in proper operation.
§17-209 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the owner or occupant of any premises connected with the
water system desires to discontinue the use of water, he or she shall notify
the Authority in writing, unless otherwise approved by the Authority, and
thereupon the Authority shall disconnect the premises concerning which notice
of discontinuance has been given.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner of any premises connected with the water
supply system to disconnect the water on the premises unless he or she shall
have first filed a written request that the service of water to the premises be
discontinued and shall pay all arrearages on water rates on the premises. When
the water has been shut off from any premises upon application of the owner or
occupant of the premises or for nonpayment of water charges, or for any other
cause, it is unlawful for any person to again connect such premises with water
except upon application to and by the Authority.
§17-210 VACANT PROPERTY; NOTICE TO SECURE REMIT.
   (A)   Whenever any premises connected with the water supply system becomes
vacant, and the owner thereof desires to have the rates remitted for the non-
use of water on the premises, he or she shall file with the Authority, not
earlier than the first nor later than the tenth day of any month, or other
dates approved by the Authority, a written notice, giving the date the premises
were vacated.
   (B)   If, upon inspection, it appears that the premises were vacant during
the preceding month and no water was used, the rates for the month will be
remitted.
   (C)   No remission of rates will be made for a less period than one calendar
month or without the notice prescribed herein. This section applies to premises
supplied at a fixed or flat rate only.
§17-211 ACCOUNT AGAINST THE NUMBER OF PROPERTY AND PREMISES DESCRIBED;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   All accounts for water shall be kept against the number of the
premises, and the property described for which the service was installed.
   (B)   However, any tenant and any person holding under lease may be supplied
with water on his or her own account when proper application is made, and, in
such cases, the Authority shall require such deposit of money with the
Authority as shall be necessary to protect the Authority against any and all
delinquent or unpaid charges for water or for other charges on account of such
service.
§17-212 WATER FOR BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES TO BE CHARGED AGAINST
PROPERTY.
   All water for building or construction purposes shall be charged against the
property upon which it is used and the owner thereof, and all delinquent and
unpaid charges therefor shall become a lien upon the premises supplied and be
collected in the manner as other delinquent and unpaid charges for water.
§17-213 RIGHT RESERVED TO SHUT OFF WATER.
   The Authority reserves the right, at all times, without notice, to shut off
the water supply for repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates or any other
reason; and the Authority shall not be responsible for any stoppages or
interruptions of water supply or for any other damage resulting from the
shutting off of water.
§17-214 WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to waste water, or allow it to be wasted, from
imperfect or leaking stops, valves, pipes, closets, faucets or other fixtures,
or to use water closets without self-closing valves, or to use the water for
purpose other than those named in the original application upon which water
rates are based, or to use it in violation of any provision of this chapter.
§17-215 METERS; ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   The Authority shall install a meter on the service of every person
using water.
   (B)   All meters put in by the Authority shall be and remain the property of
the Authority and shall not be removed unless the use of water on the premises
be entirely stopped or service connections discontinued or abandoned.
   (C)   In all cases where meters are lost, injured or broken by carelessness
or negligence by the owners or occupants of premises, they shall be repaired or
replaced by the Authority, and the cost shall be charged against the owner or
occupant.
   (D)   (1)   In the event of the meter getting out of order or failing to
register properly, the consumer shall be entitled to an administrative review
of the water bill. Procedures for the administrative review shall be developed
by the city’s Utilities Authority and shall be heard by the City Attorney.
      (2)   The consumer shall be required to post a bond which will be in an
amount equal to an estimate based on the average monthly consumption during the
last three months the same was in good order.
         (a)   The City Attorney may administratively adjust, in his or her
discretion and for the purposes of equity, any billing when presented with
evidence showing a billing was incorrectly charged, the user did not actually
utilize the service charged or a service line broke, which was promptly
repaired, though any adjustment arising from such a water loss shall not exceed
a period in excess of two consecutive billing periods. Any adjustment decision
of the City Attorney shall be administratively final.
         (b)   Upon completion of the consumer’s administrative hearing, the
consumer’s bond shall be surrendered to the Utilities Authority to satisfy any
disputed billing and/or be credited to the consumer’s next billing cycle.
         (c)   During the pendency of any utility fee dispute, and, upon the
proper posting of bond, the Utilities Authority shall not interfere with the
consumer’s utility service.
(Ord. 1758, passed 9-13-2016)
§17-216 TESTING METERS.
   (A)   When the accuracy of the record of the water meter is questioned by
the consumer, it shall be removed and tested.
   (B)   If the test discloses an error against the consumer of more than 3%,
the Authority may bear the entire expense of the test; on the other hand, where
no such error is found, the person who requested the test shall pay the charge
fixed for such test.
   (C)   Before making a test of any meter the person requesting such test
shall make a deposit to the Authority of the amount charged for such test, same
to be fixed by the Authority, based on the actual time required to make such
test.
   (D)   No meter shall be removed, nor in any way disturbed, or the seal
broken, except in the presence or under the control and direction of the
Authority.
§17-217 RESERVOIRS PROTECTED.
   It is unlawful for any person to bathe in, or to throw any substance into,
any reservoir, or place any foreign substance upon any grounds belonging to or
connected with or under the control of the Authority.
§17-218 TEMPORARY OR PERIODIC RESTRICTIONS ON WATER USAGE.
   (A)   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the general manager/City Manager is hereby authorized to
restrict or prohibit the use of water from the water system in whole or in
part.
   (B)   When the rate of water consumption, by all users of the city’s water
supply and water distribution system, attains such volume that a loss of water
pressure is experienced in all or part of the city’s water distribution system,
or the city’s raw water supply becomes excessively low as described herein, the
City Engineer shall certify this condition to the general manager/City Manager,
in writing, together with recommendations for the alleviation of such
conditions. Upon the certification of the City Engineer, the general manager/
City Manager shall issue a proclamation declaring an emergency, to be executed
by the Mayor/Chairperson of the Board of Trustees under the provisions of this
chapter, establishing restrictions on the use of water. Any provisions of the
proclamation restricting water usage shall apply to all consumers of the city’s
water system, both within and outside the city limits. The City Engineer shall
review conditions of the city’s water system at an appropriate frequency during
the effective dates of the proclamation and shall provide the general manager/
City Manager the findings of said review. Any restrictions on water usage
established pursuant to this section shall remain in effect until such time as
the general manager/City Manager files an order with the City Clerk terminating
the restrictions, pursuant to a determination by the City Engineer that
sufficient water pressure has been restored, or that restricted usage is no
longer necessary.
   (C)   The type, nature and extent of the water usage restriction shall be
based on prevailing conditions of the city’s water distribution system and the
rates of consumption, or the city’s raw water supply, as certified by the City
Engineer. Restrictions on water usage shall include the Authority to prescribe
certain times for use of water, to establish purposes for which water may be
used and to prohibit certain usages of water as provided hereafter. Usage
restrictions imposed may apply to the entire city or to only a part or portion
of the city in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1726, passed 9-9-2014)
§17-219 NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon the issuance of a proclamation, the same shall become immediately
effective upon publication. A certified copy of the proclamation shall be
published at least once, within 72 hours of its issuance, in a newspaper having
general circulation within the city. If there is no such newspaper, or if it is
not otherwise possible to publish the proclamation within 72 hours, publication
shall be by posting a copy of the proclamation in ten prominent places within
the city to include City Hall, city police headquarters, city library, Simmons
Center and the County Courthouse. A certified copy of the proclamation shall
also be filed with the City Clerk. Violation of such proclamation shall be
subject to penalties as set out in §
17-222.
   (B)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in division
(A) above is used, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance with
division (A) above within 24 hours of the first notice.
(Ord. 1726, passed 9-9-2014)
§17-220 RESTRICTIONS ON WATER USE.
   (A)   Stage 1; voluntary conservation of outside water usage.
      (1)   Conditions. The conditions for Stage 1 shall exist when the average
daily water usage reaches 90% of plant capacity for 14 consecutive days or when
the combined municipal storage of Lake Humphreys and Waurika Lake reaches a
level of 75% or less. Stage 1 conditions may be declared to exist when the
municipal storage of Lake Humphreys or Waurika Lake reaches 75% or less.
      (2)   Voluntary conservation. Upon certification of the conditions for
Stage 1, the general manager/City Manager may, through appropriate means, call
upon consumers to conserve water voluntarily by limiting outside watering to
the hours between 12:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. every other day. Watering within
said authorized time frames being limited to even numbered days for street
addresses ending in an even number and odd numbered days for street addresses
ending in an odd number.
      (3)   Termination. Stage 1 shall terminate when the general manager/City
Manager shall file an order with the City Clerk, finding that the conditions
for Stage 1 no longer exist.
   (B)   Stage 2; mandatory restriction of outside water usage to every other
day.
      (1)   Conditions. The conditions for Stage 2 shall exist when the average
daily water usage reaches 95% of the plant capacity for seven consecutive days
or when the municipal combined storage of Lake Humphreys and Waurika Lake
reaches a level of 60% or less. Stage 2 conditions may be declared to exist
when the municipal storage of Lake Humphreys or Waurika Lake reaches 60% or
less.
      (2)   Mandatory restrictions. Upon certification of the conditions for
Stage 2, the general manager/City Manager may order the mandatory restriction
of outside water usage, including, but not limited to, watering of lawns,
trees, shrubs, gardens and bedding plants, vehicle washing, washing or hosing
down of sidewalks, driveways and streets, filling of pools or other
recreational uses to the hours between 12:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. every other
day. Watering within said authorized time frames shall be limited to the days
of Monday, Wednesday and Friday for street addresses ending in an even number
and Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday for street addresses ending in an odd
number. Outside water usage will be restricted for all street addresses on
Sunday with said usage being limited to the watering of gardens and flowerbeds
only. All other outside watering on Sunday will be prohibited.
      (3)   Termination. Stage 2 shall terminate when the general manager/City
Manager shall file an order with the City Clerk and cause the same to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, finding that
the conditions for Stage 2 no longer exist; provided, however, that the general
manager/City Manager may in such order call upon consumers to voluntarily
conserve water as provided in Stage 1 herein.
   (C)   Stage 3; mandatory restriction of outside water usage to Wednesdays
and Saturdays.
      (1)   Conditions. The conditions for Stage 3 shall exist when the average
daily water usage reaches 98% of the plant capacity for three consecutive days
or when the combined municipal storage of Lake Humphreys and Waurika Lake
reaches a percentage of 50% or less. Stage 3 conditions may be declared to
exist when the municipal storage of Lake Humphreys or Waurika Lake reaches 50%
or less.
      (2)   Mandatory restrictions. Upon certification of the conditions for
Stage 3, the general manager/City Manager may order the mandatory restriction
of outside water usage, including, but not limited to, watering of lawns,
trees, shrubs, gardens and bedding plants, vehicle washing, washing or hosing
down of sidewalks, driveways and streets, filling of pools or other
recreational uses to the hours between 12:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on Wednesdays
and Saturdays only.
      (3)   Termination. Stage 3 shall terminate when the general manager/City
Manager shall file an order with the City Clerk and cause the same to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, finding that
the conditions for Stage 3 no longer exist; provided, however, that the general
manager/City Manager may in such order impose the restrictions of Stage 2 or
may call upon consumers to voluntarily conserve water as provided in Stage 1
herein.
   (D)   Stage 4; mandatory restrictions of outside water usage to one day per
week.
      (1)   Conditions. The conditions for Stage 4 shall exist when the average
daily water usage reaches 100% of the plant capacity for two consecutive days
or when the municipal storage of Lake Humphreys or Waurika Lake reaches a
percentage of 40% or less.
      (2)   Mandatory restrictions. Upon certification of the conditions for
Stage 4, the general manager/City Manager may order the mandatory restriction
of outside water usage, including, but not limited to, watering of lawns,
trees, shrubs, gardens and bedding plants, vehicle washing, washing or hosing
down of sidewalks, driveways and streets, filling of pools or other
recreational uses to the hours between 12:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on Saturdays
for locations south of Elk Avenue and on Wednesdays for locations north of Elk
Avenue.
      (3)   Termination. Stage 4 shall terminate when the general manager/City
Manager shall file an order with the City Clerk and cause the same to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, finding that
the conditions for Stage 4 no longer exist; provided, however, that the general
manager/City Manager may in such order impose the restrictions of Stage 3 or
Stage 2 or may call upon consumers to voluntarily conserve water as provided in
Stage 1 herein.
   (E)   Stage 5; mandatory prohibition of outside water usage.
      (1)   Conditions. The conditions for Stage 5 shall exist when the average
daily water usage reaches 100% of the plant capacity for two consecutive days
or when the municipal storage of Lake Humphreys or Waurika Lake reaches a
percentage of 30% or less.
      (2)   Restrictions and prohibitions. Upon certification of the conditions
for Stage 5, the general manager/City Manager shall prohibit all outside water
usage, including, but not limited to, watering of lawns, trees, shrubs, gardens
and bedding plants, vehicle washing, washing or hosing down sidewalks,
driveways and streets, filling of pools or other recreational uses.
      (3)   Termination. Stage 5 shall terminate when the general manager/City
Manager shall file an order with the City Clerk and cause the same to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, finding that
the conditions for Stage 5 no longer exist; provided, however, that the general
manager/City Manager may in such order impose the restrictions of Stage 4,
Stage 3 or Stage 2 or may call upon consumers to voluntarily conserve water as
provided in Stage 1 herein.
   (F)   Emergency conditions and measures.
      (1)   Emergency conditions. In addition to the conditions set forth above
authorizing the City Engineer to certify that Stage 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 water
restrictions or prohibitions should be implemented, the City Engineer may also
certify to the general manager/City Manager the need for implementation of
Stage 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 should any of the following emergency conditions occur:
         (a)   If one or more pumps fail at the Lake Fuqua or Lake Humphreys
pump station causing the transfer of water to fall below the needed operating
volume;
         (b)   If one or more pumps fail at the Lake Waurika pump station or
relift station causing the transfer of water to fall below the needed operating
volume;
         (c)   If a failure in the Lake Fuqua or Lake Humphreys raw water
pipeline or the Waurika pipeline should occur causing the transfer of water to
fall below the needed operating volume; or
         (d)   If, in the professional judgment of the City Engineer, that any
portion of the city’s water supply and water distribution system is otherwise
threatened by any emergency conditions resulting from a loss of water pressure
or the city’s raw water supply becomes extremely low.
      (2)   Mandatory restrictions or prohibition. Upon certification of Stage
1, 2, 3, 4 or Stage 5 water restrictions or prohibitions based on the above
conditions, the general manager/City Manager may prohibit water usage
consistent with the applicable Stage 1, 2, 3, 4 or Stage 5 restrictions or
prohibitions set forth for the applicable stage as set forth in this section
for that stage.
      (3)   Termination. The general manager/City Manager shall terminate the
applicable Stage 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 restrictions or prohibitions consistent with
the applicable termination requirements for the stage so certified as set forth
in this section for that stage.
   (G)   Sale or discharge of raw water from Lake Fuqua.
      (1)   Stage 1; restrictions on sale or discharge of water.
         (a)   Conditions. The condition for Stage 1 shall exist when the
municipal storage of Lake Fuqua reaches a level of 75% or less.
         (b)   Restrictions. Upon certification of the conditions for Stage 1,
the general manager shall, through appropriate means, restrict the sale or
discharge of water from Lake Fuqua for non-municipal supply uses to an
aggregate maximum of 235,000 gallons per day.
         (c)   Termination. Stage 1 shall terminate when the general manager
shall file an order with the City Clerk, finding that the conditions for Stage
1 no longer exist.
      (2)   Stage 2; restrictions on sale or discharge of water.
         (a)   Conditions. The conditions for Stage 2 shall exist when the
municipal storage of Lake Fuqua reaches a level of 60% or less.
         (b)   Restrictions. Upon certification of the conditions for Stage 2,
the general manager shall, through appropriate means, restrict the sale or
discharge of water from Lake Fuqua for non-municipal supply uses to an
aggregate maximum of 150,000 gallons per day, every other day.
         (c)   Termination. Stage 2 shall terminate when the general manager
shall file an order with the City Clerk, finding that the conditions for Stage
2 no longer exist; provided, however, that the general manager may in such
order restrict the sale or discharge of water as provided in Stage 1 herein.
      (3)   Stage 3; restrictions on sale or discharge of water.
         (a)   Conditions. The conditions for Stage 3 shall exist when the
municipal storage of Lake Fuqua reaches a percentage of 50% or less.
         (b)   Restrictions. Upon certification of the conditions for Stage 3,
the general manager shall, through appropriate means, restrict the sale or
discharge of water from Lake Fuqua for non-municipal supply uses to an
aggregate maximum of 150,000 gallons per day, on Wednesdays or Saturdays only.
         (c)   Termination. Stage 3 shall terminate when the general manager
shall file an order with the City Clerk, finding that the conditions for Stage
3 no longer exist; provided, however, that the general manager may in such
order impose the restrictions of Stage 2 or Stage 1 herein.
      (4)   Stage 4; prohibition on sale or discharge of water.
         (a)   Conditions. The conditions for Stage 4 shall exist when the
municipal storage of Lake Fuqua reaches a percentage of 40% or less.
         (b)   Prohibitions. Upon certification of the conditions for Stage 4,
the general manager shall prohibit all sales or discharges of water from Lake
Fuqua for non-municipal supply uses.
         (c)   Termination. Stage 4 shall terminate when the general manager
shall file an order with the City Clerk, finding that the conditions for Stage
4 no longer exist; provided, however, that the general manager may in such
order impose the restrictions of Stage 3 or Stage 2 or Stage 1 herein.
(Ord. 1726, passed 9-9-2014)
§17-221 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Stage 2 and Stage 3 exemptions. The following activities, users or
usages of water shall be exempt from the Stage 2 and Stage 3 water
restrictions:
      (1)   Watering upon the immediate premises of any commercial nursery
raising plants, shrubs or trees for sale;
      (2)   Commercial car washes and service stations;
      (3)   Washing of motor vehicles used in food transportation, food
products, perishable goods or motor vehicles used for garbage collections;
      (4)   Food producing crop for personal use or consumption only;
      (5)   Lawns which have been treated by commercial nurseries, landscape
gardeners or similar type businesses, if:
         (a)   The watering is completed within 24 hours from the treatment of
the lawns; and
         (b)   A sign is conspicuously posted on the premises stating the date
and time of the lawn treatment.
      (6)   Newly planted lawns for a period of two weeks with the posting of a
sign which sets out the date of the start of such two-week period; and
      (7)   Watering around the foundations of property structures by use of a
hose.
   (B)   Stage 4 exemptions. The following activities, users or usages of water
shall be exempt from the Stage 4 water restrictions:
      (1)   Washing of motor vehicles used in food transportation, food
products, perishable goods or motor vehicles used for garbage collections;
      (2)   Watering around the foundations of property structures by use of a
hose;
      (3)   Watering upon the immediate premises of any commercial nursery
raising plants, shrubs or trees for sale;
      (4)   Food producing crop for personal use or consumption only;
      (5)   Commercial car washes and service stations; and
      (6)   Washing a vehicle at a car dealership or car rental establishment
on the day the customer picks up the vehicle.
   (C)   Stage 5 exemptions. The following activities, users or usages of water
shall be exempt from the Stage 5 water restrictions:
      (1)   Washing of motor vehicles used in food transportation, food
products, perishable goods or motor vehicles used for garbage collections;
      (2)   Watering around the foundations of property structures by use of a
hose;
      (3)   Watering upon the immediate premises of any commercial nursery
raising plants, shrubs or trees for sale;
      (4)   Car wash use, as follows:
         (a)   Definition. For purposes of this division (C)(4), a CAR WASH
shall be defined as a place of business equipped for washing cars, trucks,
motorbikes, boats, airplanes or other motor vehicles and trailers; and
         (b)   Regulations and restrictions.
            1.   Unlawful to wash vehicle: It shall be unlawful for any person
to wash a vehicle at any location other than a commercial car wash.
            2.   Allowable times for washing vehicles: Allowable times for
washing vehicles are limited to reduce evaporation. It shall be unlawful for
any person to use potable water (water provided by the city) to wash a vehicle
at any time on Sunday or Monday; or on any day, during the hours of 7:00 p.m.
to 7:00 a.m. The owner or operator of a self-serve or automatic car wash shall
ensure that potable water (water provided by the city) cannot be used to wash a
vehicle during the days and times proscribed.
            3.   Nozzles: It shall be unlawful for any car wash to use a nozzle
that discharges potable water more than three gallons per minute.
            4.   Car wash bays: It shall be unlawful for a car wash to wash any
of its bays with potable water (water provided by the city), except on Fridays.
            5.   Defense: It is an affirmative defense to prosecution that if a
car dealer or car rental is preparing a car for pick up, it washed that vehicle
(and only that vehicle) on the day of pick up by the customer.
      (5)   Stage 5 exemptions, itemized in this division (C), will
automatically cease, without further action by the City Council, in the event
the municipal storage of water in Waurika Lake reaches a level of 25% or less.
   (D)   Fire hydrant meters. The use of fire hydrant meters during Stage 2, 3
or 4 is prohibited except for approved subdivision construction contracts and
where building permits have been issued by the city. The use of fire hydrant
meters during Stage 5 is prohibited.
(Ord. 1726, passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 1734, passed 1-27-2015)
§17-222 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF STAGE 2, STAGE 3, STAGE 4 OR STAGE 5
PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of the restrictions of Stage 2, Stage 3, Stage 4 or
Stage 5 by any party receiving water as a customer located inside the city
limits shall be deemed in violation of this code and the penalties shall be as
set out in § 1-108 for a first offense. Each day that an offense occurs or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Second and subsequent offenses
shall also be prosecuted in municipal court and fines shall be enhanced with
fines set out herein.
      (1)   Convictions for violations of Stage 2 or Stage 3 shall be
punishable by the following.
         (a)   First offense shall be punishable by a fine of $100 plus court
costs.
         (b)   Conviction of a second offense shall be punishable by a fine of
$150 plus court costs.
         (c)   Conviction of a third offense shall be punishable by a fine of
$250 plus court costs.
      (2)   Violations of Stage 4 restrictions shall entail the following.
         (a)   Conviction of a first offense shall be punishable by a fine of
$250 plus court costs.
         (b)   Conviction of a second offense shall be punishable by a fine of
$500 plus court costs.
         (c)   Conviction of a third offense shall be punishable by a fine of
$750 and/or 30 days in jail.
      (3)   Violations of Stage 5 restrictions shall entail the following.
         (a)   Conviction of first offense shall be punishable by a fine of
$500 plus court costs.
         (b)   Conviction of a second offense shall be punishable by a fine of
$1,000 plus court costs.
         (c)   Conviction of a third offense and each subsequent offense shall
be punishable by a fine of $1,000 plus court costs and/or 30 days in jail.
   (B)   (1)   Customers receiving water under the terms of a contract shall
for a first violation receive a letter of notice of violation and the water
rate applicable to that customer shall be increased by 50% for the duration of
that billing period. For a second violation by the customer during the declared
water emergency, the customer shall receive a notice of violation and the water
rates applicable to that customer shall be doubled for not only the duration of
that billing period but for the remainder of the declared emergency as well.
      (2)   A third violation during the declared emergency by the customer
shall cause the customer(s) agreement to be canceled and immediately terminate
water service(s). The customer, whether inside the city limits or outside the
city limits, shall be required to reapply for water service and additional
application fees and deposits will be required as established by other
ordinances of this code in effect at the time of such violation.
      (3)   Water service agreements with customers outside the city limits are
at the discretion of the general manager/City Manager. For the purpose of this
section, CUSTOMER is defined as the individual or entity contracting with the
city for water service provided through a master meter. If the customer has
additional customers attached beyond the master meter, it is the customer’s
responsibility to ensure compliance with the declared water emergency
requirements by all its additional customers.
(Ord. 1726, passed 9-9-2014)
§17-223 INTERFERENCE WITH METERS; AVERAGING CHARGES.
   (A)   Interference with meters.
      (1)   No person, except a city employee who is duly authorized, shall
interfere with or obstruct access to any meter used for the measurement of city
water. If a meter is obstructed, which obstruction prevents the city from
reading the meter, maintaining the meter or taking other necessary action, the
owner or occupant of the property shall be notified to remove or eliminate the
obstruction within 24 hours.
      (2)   If said obstruction is not removed after proper notice, the city
shall cause the obstruction to be removed at the owner’s or occupant’s expense.
Any expense incurred shall be included on the owner’s or occupant’s next water
bill.
      (3)   Notice shall be provided by delivery to the person named on the
water account at the address provided, by posting the notice on the obstruction
or by posting the notice prominently on the main entrance of the premises being
supplied water by the obstructed meter.
      (4)   In addition to the above procedure for removal of the obstruction,
the owner or occupant of the premises may be cited for violation of the
provisions of this division (A) and the penalty therefor shall, upon
conviction, be punishable by a fine in the minimum amount of $99 and a maximum
amount not to exceed $200 plus court costs.
   (B)   Averaging charges. In the event that any meter is obstructed which
prevents the meter from being read during a billing cycle or should the meter
fail to register properly and not show correctly the quantity of water used
since the last reading, in arriving at the quantity used, the right shall exist
on the part of the city to average the month and charge for water on a basis of
the previous 12 months’ consumption rate.
   (C)   Extreme weather policies. Residential electric utility services will
not be disconnected during extreme weather temperatures (defined below). The
initial decision on the disconnection of service will rest with the customer
service supervisor with the final decision resting with the finance director
and/or the City Manager.
      (1)   Year-round policy:
 
Daytime    32°F or below
Heat index 100°F or higher
Night      20°F or below
 
      (2)   No disconnect if temperatures are 32°F or below during the day,
20°F or below at night or if the predicted heat index is 101°F or higher.
      (3)   Disconnection may be delayed 30 days with medical doctor or
osteopath certification of a life-threatening condition or life support
equipment; certificate may be renewed once.
      (4)   Disconnection may be delayed for 20 days if customer has applied
for financial assistance, including SSI.
      (5)   Customer is required to negotiate a payment plan. No disconnection
if customer enters into a deferred payment plan and is current in all payments.
   (D)   Idle consumption billing.
      (1)   Any owner of real estate premises installing or maintaining water
and electric services provided by the Authority shall be held responsible for
any charges associated with the meters and the usage shown on the meters. This
may include, but is not limited to, water or electric service charges, repair
fees, tampering fees and unexplained usage. The exception will be such premises
that services are carried in the name of the tenants or other persons.
      (2)   Any such owner who disputes the utility service fee shall be
entitled to administrative review of their billing pursuant to the provisions
of §§
17-215 and/or
17-408.
   (E)   Sanitary sewer adjustment. In the event a consumer is granted an
adjustment to his or her water bill pursuant to the provisions of §
17-215 , and if his or her sanitary sewer rates are based on his or her water
consumption, an adjustment for sanitary sewer service may be allowed. The
adjustment, if any, shall be based on the consumer’s revised water consumption
billing.
(Ord. 1759, passed 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 3: SEWER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
17-301   Purpose and policy
   
17-302   Definitions
   
17-303   Requirements for proper wastewater disposal
   
17-304   Physical connection to public sewer
   
17-305   Regulation of holding tank waste disposal
Article B. Discharge and Discharge Permits
   
17-310   Application for discharge of wastewater
   
17-311   Determination of significant industrial users
   
17-312   Industrial wastewater discharge permits
   
17-313   General discharge prohibitions
   
17-314   Restrictions on wastewater strength
   
17-315   Protection of treatment plant influent
   
17-316   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
17-317   Right to establish more restrictive criteria
   
17-318   Special agreements
   
17-319   Pretreatment facilities
   
17-320   Accidental discharge
Article C. Industrial User Monitoring
   
17-325   Monitoring facilities
   
17-326   Inspection and sampling
   
17-327   Confidential information
   
17-328   Compliance date report
   
17-329   Periodic compliance report
   
17-330   Maintenance of records
Article D. Enforcement and Abatement
   
17-335   Pretreatment Board
   
17-336   Duties and authority of the Superintendent
   
17-337   Procedure; complaints and orders
   
17-338   Violations and penalties
   
17-339   Public notification
   
17-340   Assessment for noncompliance with permits and orders
   
17-341   Falsifying information
   
17-342   Judicial proceedings and relief
   
17-343   Public nuisance
   
17-344   Remedies cumulative
   
17-345   Enforcement officials
Article E. Fees and Billing
   
17-350   Purpose
   
17-351   Types of charges and fees
   
17-352   Fees for applications for discharge
   
17-353   Surcharge fees
   
17-354   Industrial wastewater discharge permit fee
   
17-355   Fees for industrial discharge monitoring
Article F. Stormwater Sewer System Discharge
   
17-360   Purpose
   
17-361   Definitions
   
17-362   Regulations
   
17-363   Compliance
Article G. Conflict
   
17-370   Conflict
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§17-301 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for the disposal of
wastewater in the service area of the publicly owned wastewater treatment
system. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect the public health;
      (2)   To provide problem free wastewater collection and treatment
service;
      (3)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater treatment system which will interfere with the system operation,
will cause the city’s discharge to violate its national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) permit or other applicable state requirements, or
will cause physical damage to the wastewater treatment system facilities;
      (4)   To provide full and equitable distribution of the cost of the
wastewater treatment system;
      (5)   To enable the city to comply with the provisions of the federal
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended, and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403), as amended, and other applicable
federal regulations; and
      (6)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the wastewater treatment system.
   (B)   (1)   In meeting these objectives, this chapter provides that all
persons in the service area of the city must have adequate wastewater treatment
either in the form of a connection to the municipal wastewater treatment system
or, where the system is not available, an appropriate private disposal system.
      (2)   This chapter also provides for the issuance of permits to system
users, for the regulations of wastewater discharge volume and characteristics,
for monitoring and enforcement activities; and for the setting of fees for the
full and equitable distribution of costs resulting from the operation,
maintenance and capital recovery of the wastewater treatment system and from
other activities required by the enforcement and administrative program
established herein.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city,
who are by contract or agreement with the city, users of the municipal
wastewater treatment system. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Superintendent shall administer, implement, interpret and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Administrator of the EPA; or the State Director when
the state has an approved pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized representative
of an industrial user may be:
      (1)   A president, secretary, treasurer or vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function;
      (2)   A manager of one or more manufacturing, production or operating
facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions
that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures;
      (3)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or sole proprietorship; or
      (4)   A duly authorized representative of the above specified persons if
such authorization is in writing, is submitted to the POTW, and specifies a
person or position having overall responsibility for the facility where the
discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters
for the facility.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under approved laboratory procedures,
as specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136, five days at 20°C expressed in terms of
weight and concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/l)).
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called a service line or house connection.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. Limitations on pollutant discharges to the POTWs
promulgated by EPA in accordance with § 307 of the Clean Water Act, that apply
to specified process wastewaters of particular industrial categories and appear
in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405 through 471 and 40 C.F.R. §
403.6.
   CITY. The City of Duncan, Oklahoma, or the City Manager, Mayor and City
Council.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples obtained at regular
intervals over a specified time period. The volume of each individual sample
may be either proportional to the flow rate during the sample period (flow
proportional composite) or constant and collected at equal time intervals
during the composite period.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The city under the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANT. As defined by federal law, these include, BOD, TSS,
fecal coliform bacteria, oil and grease and pH.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use, such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is generated by a family residence,
apartment, dwelling unit or other user containing contributions from only
sanitary facilities. Normal DOMESTIC WASTEWATER for the city is that in which
the average concentration of suspended solids and five-day (BOD) is established
at no more than 250 mg/l per liter.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the Agency.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding such as vessels, chemical
toilets, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants from any nondomestic
source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) or (d) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waterborne solids, liquids or gaseous wastes resulting
from and discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from the industrial,
manufacturing or food processing operation or process, or from the development
of any natural resource or any mixture of these with water or domestic
wastewater.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW treatment processes or operations or
its treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or
disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
city’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation), or of the prevention of the sewage sludge use or disposal in
compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the
Clean Water Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly
referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and including
state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Subtitle D of SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., and the Marine Protection,
Research and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§
1401 et seq.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act which applies to industrial users.
This term includes prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES. The program for
issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from
point sources into navigable waters, the contiguous zone and the oceans
pursuant to § 402 of the federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided, that: the building,
structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site at which no other
source is located; or the building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or the production of wastewater generating
processes of the building, of the building, structure, facility or installation
are substantially independent of an existing source at the same site. In
determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as the
extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and the
extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of
activity as the existing source should be considered.
   NONDOMESTIC SOURCE. Any source of discharge of wastewater from any facility
other than a residential unit.
   NONDOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater discharged from a nondomestic source.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into the waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation).
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the singular
shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of the
hydrogen ions measured in grams per liter of solution and expressed in standard
units (SU).
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, heat,
wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal and agricultural waste discharged into water.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes or other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer controlled or maintained by the city.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).
      (1)   A treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1292), which is owned in this instance by the city. This definition includes
any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but does not
include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility
providing treatment.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers
that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city who are, by
contract or agreement with the city, users of the city’s POTW. The term also
means the municipality which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges from
such a treatment works.
   SERVICE AREA. Any area serviced by the city treatment works, including, but
not limited to, those areas the city holds easements for such service.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which cause them to be inoperable, or substantial and
permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur
in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean economic loss
caused by delays in production.
   SEWER USE CHARGES. Charges levied on users of the wastewater facilities for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works.
   SHALL/MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any industrial user of the city’s wastewater disposal system who:
         (a)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, subchapter N;
         (b)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average
workday of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact
cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater); or contributes a process wastestream
which makes up 5% or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic
capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the control authority as defined in 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(b) on the basis that the industrial user has reasonable
potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation, or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)
(6) or amendments thereto).
      (2)   Upon finding that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (1)(b) of this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, the city may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or POTW, and in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6), determine that such industrial user is not a significant
industrial user.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. An industrial user is in significant
noncompliance if its violation meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined herein
as those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l);
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined herein as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals 1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit or narrative standard) that the POTW determines has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through
(including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority under paragraph 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)(vi)
(B) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, which the POTW determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a nonroutine episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or noncustomary batch discharge or any
discharge violating the specific prohibitions under 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b).
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
standard industrial classification manual issued by the executive office of the
president, office of management and budget, 1998, as amended.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A pipe or conduit which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes; it may,
however, carry cooling waters and unpolluted waters, upon approval of the
Superintendent.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation
of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering by approved procedures according to 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of CWA 307(a) or other Acts.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city’s POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or, untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A control document issued by the Superintendent
authorizing the conditional discharge of certain undomestic pollutants into the
city’s POTW system as specified in §
17-312 .
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes and ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993; Ord. 1700, passed 9-13-2011)
§17-303 REQUIREMENTS FOR PROPER WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
service area of the city any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any waters of the state within
the service area of the city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
this article, the building shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all local and state regulations.
   (E)   Except as provided in this chapter, the owner of all houses, buildings
or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other
purposes situated within the service area and abutting on any street, alley or
right-of-way in which there is located a public sanitary sewer, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the plumbing ordinance of
this city within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided
that the sewer is within 300 feet of the property. Any residence, business or
industrial establishment having had sewers available for 90 days shall be
considered a user whether connected or not and shall be subject to paying the
appropriate user fees and charges or industrial recovery charges as set by
ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   An industrial facility may discharge wastewater to the waters of the
state provided that it obtains an NPDES permit and meets all the requirements
of the federal Clean Water Act, the NPDES permit, and any other applicable
local, state or federal statutes and regulations. Such facility shall be
considered a user of the public sewers or the POTW only if it contributes,
causes or permits the contribution of wastewater into the city’s POTW.
   (G)   Trunk and interceptor lines and appurtenances outside the city limits
must be installed to meet the code specifications then in effect. Upon
completion and prior to acceptance, each project or addition must be inspected
to ensure code compliance. The transfer of each addition must include easements
for maintenance and the exclusive right to control and lines and appurtenances
as set forth in the governing codes.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-304 PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   All connections to the sanitary sewer system of the city shall be made
under the direction of the city.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and
inspection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Each building connected with a sanitary sewer shall have its own
separate building sewer connecting it with the sanitary sewer main.
   (E)   Building sewers and service lines shall conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
   (F)   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (G)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, basement drains or other sources of surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or service line which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   Each individual property owner or user of the POTW shall be entirely
responsible for the maintenance of their service line and lateral that leads to
the public sewer collector line. This maintenance will include repair or
replacement of the service line as deemed necessary by the building official.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-305 REGULATION OF HOLDING TANK WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Permit. No person, firm, association or corporation shall clean out,
drain or flush any septic tank or any other type of wastewater or excreta
disposal system, unless such person, firm or association, or corporation
obtains a permit from the Superintendent to perform such acts or services. Any
person, firm, association or corporation desiring a permit to perform such
services shall file an application on the prescribed form. Upon any such
application, the permit shall be issued by the Superintendent when the
conditions of this section have been met; provided, that the Superintendent is
satisfied the applicant has adequate and proper equipment to perform the
services contemplated in a safe and competent manner.
   (B)   Fees. For each permit issued under the provisions of this section, an
annual permit charge therefor shall be paid to the city. The applicable fee
schedule shall be adopted by the City Council by resolution.
   (C)   Designated disposal locations. The Superintendent shall designate
approved locations for the emptying and cleansing of all equipment used in the
performance of the services rendered under the permit herein provided for, and
it shall be a violation hereof for any person, firm, association or corporation
to empty or clean such equipment at any place other than a place so designated.
   (D)   Revocation of permit. Failure to comply with all provisions of this
chapter shall be sufficient cause for the revocation of such permit by the
Superintendent. The possession within the service area by any persons of any
motor vehicle equipped with a body type and accessories of a nature and design
capable of serving a septic tank of wastewater or excreta disposal system
cleaning unit shall be prima facie evidence that such person is engaged in the
business of cleaning, draining or flushing septic or other wastewater or
excreta disposal systems within the service area of the city.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
ARTICLE B. DISCHARGE AND DISCHARGE PERMITS
§17-310 APPLICATION FOR DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   All users or prospective users that generate nondomestic wastewater
shall make application to the Superintendent for written authorization to
discharge to the municipal wastewater treatment system. The application shall
be in a form and require such information about the user as the Superintendent
may prescribe. Applications shall be required from all new dischargers as well
as for any existing discharger desiring additional service. Connection to the
municipal sewer shall not be made until the application is received and
approved by the Superintendent and the building sewer is installed in
accordance with § 17-304 and an inspection has been performed by the proper
city official.
   (B)   The receipt by the city of a prospective customer’s application for
service shall not obligate the city to render the service. If the service
applied for cannot be supplied in accordance with this chapter and the city’s
rules and regulations and general practice, the application shall be rejected,
and there shall be no liability of the city to the applicant for such service,
except that conditional waivers for additional services may be granted by the
Superintendent for interim periods if compliance may be assured within a
reasonable period of time.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-311 DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   All users or prospective users which generate nondomestic wastewater
shall, when making application for discharge pursuant to §
17-310, provide the following information: name (owners and operators), address
and location (if different from the mailing address); the standard industrial
classification (SIC) of the operation(s) carried out by the applicant;
wastewater volume; wastewater constituents and characteristics; discharge
variations; a description of all toxic materials handled on the premises; and
any other information deemed necessary by the Superintendent, including, but
not limited to, site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details of existing and proposed pretreatment or equalization facilities.
   (B)   If the Superintendent determines that the applicant constitutes a
significant industrial user, then the conditions of §
17-312 shall apply.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-312 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. All significant industrial users proposing to connect
to or to contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit
before connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant
industrial users shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 60 days
after the effective date of this chapter and shall be required to qualify for
granting of the wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the effective
date of this chapter. Proposed new users shall apply at least 90 days prior to
connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   Additional information required for permit. The following additional
information shall constitute a baseline report and shall be required to obtain
a wastewater discharge permit.
      (1)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility is required.
      (2)   A brief description of the nature and average rate of production of
the facility is required. This description should include a schematic process
diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
      (3)   The user shall submit information showing the measured average
daily flow and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from each
regulated process stream and other streams as necessary to allow use of the
combined waste stream formula of 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e). The city may allow for
verifiable estimates of these flows where justified by cost or feasibility
considerations.
      (4)   The user shall identify the pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process.
      (5)   The user shall submit the results of sampling and analysis
identifying the nature and concentration (or mass, where required by the city
or pretreatment standard) of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process. Both daily maximum and average concentration or mass, where
required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations.
      (6)   A minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organics, if the parameter is
required, for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for
facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the control
authority may authorize a lower minimum. For all other pollutants, 24-hour
composite samples must be obtained through flow proportional composite sampling
techniques unless time proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the control authority. Where time proportional composite sampling
or grab sampling is authorized by the control authority, the samples must be
representative of the discharge and the decision to allow the alternative
sampling must be documented in the industrial user file for that facility or
facilities.
      (7)   Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in
40 C.F.R. part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols and sulfides, the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease,
the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other
parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved
EPA methodologies may be authorized by the control authority, as appropriate.
      (8)   Samples for categorical industries should be taken immediately
downstream from pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream
from the regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are
mixed with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should
measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined
waste stream formula of 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance
with the pretreatment standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit
has been calculated in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e), this adjusted
limit along with supporting data shall be submitted to the city. Samples for
noncategorical industries will be taken of the total facility discharge just
prior to connection with the POTW.
      (9)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40
C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, or where the Administrator determines that the part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analysis shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by the POTW or other parties, approved by the
Administrator.
      (10)   The city may allow the submission of a report which utilizes only
historical data so long as the data is sufficient to determine the need for
industrial pretreatment measures.
      (11)   The report shall indicate the time, date and place, of sampling,
and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and analysis is
representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the
POTW.
      (12)   This report will contain a certification statement contained in §
17-329(I), signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user, as
defined in §
17-302, and certified to by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) or additional pretreatment
is required for the industrial user to meet the pretreatment standards and
requirements.
      (13)   Any user who elects or is required to construct new or additional
facilities for pretreatment shall as a part of the application for wastewater
discharge permit submit plans, specifications and other pertinent information
relative to the proposed construction to the Superintendent for approval. Plans
and specifications submitted for approval must bear the seal of a professional
engineer registered to practice engineering in the state. A wastewater
discharge permit shall not be issued until such plans and specifications are
approved. Approval of such plans and specifications shall in no way relieve the
user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce
an effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter.
      (14)   If additional pretreatment or operation and maintenance will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the application shall include the
shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. For the purpose of
this division (B)(14), PRETREATMENT STANDARDS shall include either a national
pretreatment standard, or a pretreatment standard imposed by this chapter. The
following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like).
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (B)(14)(a) above shall
exceed nine months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for the delay and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
      (15)   Where the industrial user’s categorical pretreatment standard has
been modified by a removal allowance (40 C.F.R. § 403.7), the combined waste
stream formula (40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e)) or fundamentally different factors
variance (40 C.F.R. § 403.13) at the time the user submits the report required
by division (A) above, the information required by divisions (B)(12) and (B)
(14) above shall pertain to the modified limits.
      (16)   If the categorical pretreatment standard is modified by a removal
allowance (40 C.F.R. § 403.7), the combined waste stream formula (40 C.F.R. §
403.6(e)) or fundamentally different factors variance (40 C.F.R. § 403.13)
after the user submits the report required by division (A) above, any necessary
amendments to the information requested by divisions (B)(12) and (B)(14) above
shall be submitted by the user to the city within 60 days after the modified
limit is approved.
      (17)   The city will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the city may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms
and conditions provided herein.
      (18)   The Superintendent will act only on applications containing all
the information required in this article. Persons who have filed incomplete
applications will be notified by the Superintendent that the application is
deficient and the nature of such deficiency and will be given 30 days to
correct the deficiency. If the deficiency is not corrected within such extended
period as allowed by the Superintendent, the Superintendent shall submit the
application to the City Engineer with a recommendation that it be denied and
notify the applicant in writing of such action.
   (C)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the city. Permits must contain the
following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspections and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include self-
monitoring requirements, sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number,
types and standards for tests and reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules, if determined by the city to be necessary;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports of discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the city and affording city access
thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (11)   Requirements to control slug discharges, if determined by the city
to be necessary;
      (12)   A statement of applicable penalties for violation of pretreatment
standards and requirements; and
      (13)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Permit modifications. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of
users subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with
such standard within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater discharge permit as required by
division (B) above, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national pretreatment
standard. A user with an existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit to
the Superintendent within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable
federal categorical pretreatment standard the information required by divisions
(B)(2) and (B)(3) above. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject
to modification by the Superintendent during the term of the permit as
limitations or requirements are modified or other just cause exists. The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in this permit at least 30 days prior
to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit
shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (E)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit
reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
permit.
   (F)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises
or new or changed operation without the prior approval of the city. Any
succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the
existing permit.
   (G)   Revocation of permit. Any permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter is subject to be modified, suspended or revoked in whole or in part
during its term for cause, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit or other applicable federal, state or local regulation;
      (2)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation or failure to disclose
fully all relevant facts;
      (3)   A change in any condition that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the permitted discharge;
      (4)   Failure of a user to accurately report the discharge constituents
and characteristics or to report significant changes in plant operations or
wastewater characteristics; or
      (5)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring.
   (H)   Revocation procedure. Should conditions arise requiring permit
revocation the procedure outlined in this chapter will be followed.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993; Ord. 1700, passed 9-13-2011)
§17-313 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. A user may not introduce into the POTW any
pollutant(s) which cause pass-through or interference. These general
prohibitions and the specific prohibitions in division (C) below apply to each
user introducing pollutants into the POTW whether or not the user is subject to
national pretreatment standards or any national, state or local pretreatment
requirements.
   (B)   Affirmative defense. A user shall have an affirmative defense in any
action brought against it alleging a violation of the general prohibitions
established in division (A) above and the specific prohibitions in divisions
(C)(3) through (C)(7) below where the user can demonstrate that:
      (1)   It did not know or have reason to know that its discharge, alone or
in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources would cause
pass-through or interference; and
      (2)   (a)   A local limit designed to prevent pass-through or
interference, as the case may be, was developed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §
403.5(c) for each pollutant in the user’s discharge that caused pass-through or
interference, and the user was in compliance with each such local limit
directly prior to and during the pass-through or interference; or
         (b)   If a local limit designed to prevent pass-through or
interference, as the case may be, has not been developed in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.5(c) for the pollutants that caused the pass-through or
interference, the user’s discharge directly prior to and during the pass-
through or interference did not change substantially in nature and constituents
from the user’s prior discharge activity when the POTW was regularly in
compliance with the POTW’s NPDES permit requirements and, in the case of
interference, applicable requirements for sewage sludge use or disposal.
   (C)   Specific prohibitions. In addition, the following pollutants shall not
be introduced into the POTW:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0, or greater than or
equal to 12.5 standard units, unless the works is specifically designed to
accommodate such discharges;
      (3)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction
to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, such as, but not limited to,
grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper,
wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt, residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuels of lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes;
      (4)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40°C (104°F), unless the
approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature
limits;
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW;
      (9)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
Superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance;
      (11)   Any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial
process waters unless specific approval is obtained from the Superintendent.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved
by the Superintendent and the State Department of Public Health. Industrial
cooling waters or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of
the Superintendent and the State Department of Public Health, to a storm sewer
or natural outlet;
      (12)   The use of enzymes, hot water, emulsifiers or other agents to
cause oil or grease to pass through the user’s grease trap or treatment unit
designed to remove oil or grease; and
      (13)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any
way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant specific
limitation developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-314 RESTRICTIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   No person or user shall discharge wastewater that exceeds the following set
of standards (Table A, Local Discharge Restrictions, of this section). These
restrictions apply to wastewater discharges to the main wastewater treatment
facility and to the industrial park lagoons. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136
and amendments thereto. Dilution of any wastewater discharge for the purpose of
satisfying these requirements shall be considered in violation of this chapter.
Table A
Local Discharge Restrictions
Pollutant Daily Maximum (mg/l)
Table A
Local Discharge Restrictions
Pollutant        Daily Maximum (mg/l)
Arsenic (total)  2.46
Cadmium (total)  0.22
Chromium (total) 3.28
Copper (total)   2.05
Cyanide (total)  0.438
Lead (total)     0.49
Mercury (total)  0.0703
Nickel (total)   24.19
Selenium (total) 0.10
Silver (total)   8.53
Zinc (total)     3.88
 
(Ord. 1700, passed 9-13-2011)
§17-315 PROTECTION OF TREATMENT PLANT INFLUENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall monitor the treatment works influent for each
parameter in the above table. Industrial users shall be subject to reporting
and monitoring requirements regarding these parameters as set forth in this
chapter. In the event that the influent at the POTW reaches or exceeds
established levels, the Superintendent shall initiate technical studies to
determine the cause of the influent violation and shall recommend to the city
the necessary remedial measures, including, but not limited to, recommending
the establishment of new or revised pretreatment levels for these parameters.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall also recommend changes to any of these
criteria in the event that the POTW effluent standards are changed, there are
changes in any applicable law or regulation affecting same, or changes are
needed for more effective operation of the POTW.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-316 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment
standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standards, if
more stringent than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-317 RIGHT TO ESTABLISH MORE RESTRICTIVE CRITERIA.
   No statement in this chapter is intended or may be construed to prohibit the
Superintendent from establishing specific wastewater discharge criteria more
restrictive where wastes are determined to be harmful or destructive to the
facilities of the POTW or to create a public nuisance or to cause the discharge
of the POTW to violate effluent or stream water quality standards, or to
interfere with the use or handling of sludge, or to pass through the POTW
resulting in a violation of the NPDES permit, or to exceed industrial
pretreatment standards for discharge to municipal wastewater treatment systems
as imposed by the State Department of Public Health or the United States
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-318 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to prevent any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any user of the
wastewater treatment system whereby wastewater of unusual strength is accepted
into the system and specially treated subject to any payments or user charges
as may be applicable.
   (B)   The making of such special agreements or arrangements between the city
and the user shall be strictly limited by applicable federal and local
discharge limitations and to the capability of the POTW to handle such wastes
without interfering with the unit operations or sludge use and handling or
allowing the pass-through of pollutants which would result in a violation of
the NPDES permit.
   (C)   No special agreement or arrangement may be made without documentation
by the industry of the use of good management practice in the reduction of
wastewater volume and strength.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-319 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Operation and maintenance. The industrial user shall at all times
properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and
control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the
industrial user to achieve compliance with the conditions of this chapter.
Proper operation and maintenance includes, but is not limited to, effective
performance, adequate funding, adequate operator staffing and training, and
adequate laboratory and process controls, including appropriate quality
assurance procedures. This provision requires the operation of backup or
auxiliary or similar system only when necessary to achieve compliance with the
conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   Reduction, loss or failure. Upon reduction, loss or failure of the
pretreatment facility, the industrial user shall, to the extent necessary to
maintain compliance with its permit, control production or all discharges or
both until the operation of the treatment facility is restored or an alternate
method of treatment is provided. This requirement applies, for example, when
the primary source of power of the treatment facility fails or is reduced. It
shall not be a defense for the permittee in an enforcement action that it would
have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to
maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit.
   (C)   Bypass of treatment facilities.
      (1)   An industrial user may allow a bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the reporting requirements of this article.
      (2)   If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the city, if possible, at least ten days before
the date of the bypass.
      (3)   An industrial user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the city within 24
hours from the time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the industrial
user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a
description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including
exact dates and times, and if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The city may waive
the written report on a case by case basis if the oral report has been received
within 24 hours.
      (4)   Bypass is prohibited unless:
         (a)   It was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury or
severe property damage;
         (b)   There was no feasible alternative, such as the use of auxiliary
treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or maintenance during
normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if
adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during
normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The industrial user submitted the notices as required by
divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) above.
      (5)   The city may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the city determines that it will meet the three conditions
listed in division (C)(4) above.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-320 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Protection from accidental discharge.
      (1)   All industrial users shall provide such facilities and institute
such procedures as are reasonably necessary to prevent or minimize the
potential for accidental discharge into the POTW of waste regulated by this
chapter from liquid or raw material storage areas, from truck and railcar
loading and unloading areas, from in plant transfer or processing and materials
handling areas and from diked areas or holding ponds of any waste regulated by
this chapter.
      (2)   The wastewater discharge permit of any user who has a history of
significant leaks, spills or other accidental discharge of waste regulated by
this chapter shall be subject on a case by case basis to a special permit
condition or the requirement for the construction of facilities and
establishment of procedures which will prevent or minimize the potential for
such accidental discharge.
      (3)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the Superintendent
before the facility is constructed.
      (4)   The review and approval of such plans and operating procedures will
in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility to
provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   At least once every two years all significant industrial users will
be evaluated to determine if there is a need for plan to control slug
discharges. If such plan is required it will contain, at a minimum, the
following elements:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate a discharge a
prohibition under 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) with procedures for follow up written
notification within five days; and
         (d)   If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from
accidental spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas,
handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control
of plant site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or
equipment, measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including
solvents) or measures and equipment for emergency response.
   (B)   Notification of accidental discharge.
      (1)   Any person causing or suffering from any accidental discharge shall
immediately notify the POTW treatment plant by telephone to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage to the
POTW, the health and welfare of the public and the environment.
      (2)   This notification shall be followed, within five days of the date
of the occurrence, by a detailed written statement describing the cause of the
accidental discharge and measures being taken to prevent future occurrence.
      (3)   Such notification will not relieve the user of liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person
or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or state or
federal law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may
cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
ARTICLE C. INDUSTRIAL USER MONITORING
§17-325 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The installation of a monitoring facility shall be required for
all industrial users having wastes which receive pretreatment, or otherwise
altered or regulated before discharge, or are unusually strong and thereby
subject to a surcharge.
      (2)   The monitoring facility shall be a manhole or other suitable
facility approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   When in the judgment of the Superintendent, there is a significant
difference in wastewater constituents and characteristics produced by different
operations of a single user, the Superintendent may require that separate
monitoring facilities be installed for each source of discharge.
   (C)   Monitoring facilities that are required to be installed shall be
constructed and maintained at the user’s expense. The purpose of the facility
is to enable inspection, sampling and flow measurement of the wastewater
produced by a user. If sampling or metering equipment is also required by the
Superintendent, it shall be provided and installed at the user’s expense.
   (D)   (1)   The monitoring facility will normally be required to be located
on the user’s premises outside of the building.
      (2)   The Superintendent may, however, when such location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in the public street right-of-way with the approval of the public
agency having jurisdiction of that right-of-way and located so that it will not
be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (E)   There shall be ample room in or near such a sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (F)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the Superintendent’s
requirements and all applicable local agency construction standards and
specifications. Construction must be completed within 180 days following
written notification unless an extension is granted by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-326 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   All users generating wastewater classified as a nondomestic source, as
defined in §
17-302, shall allow the Superintendent or his or her authorized representative,
the approval authority, state officials and EPA upon presentation of proper
credentials:
      (1)   To enter upon the user’s premises where a discharge source to the
POTW is located or where records are required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of this chapter, and at reasonable times to copy these records;
      (2)   To inspect at reasonable times any monitoring equipment or method
or any collection, treatment, pollution management or discharge facilities
required under this chapter; and
      (3)   To sample at reasonable times any discharge of pollutants to the
POTW.
   (B)   (1)   At least annually, the city shall sample and inspect the
facilities of all significant industrial users to ascertain whether the purpose
of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied with. The
city, approval authority, state and EPA shall have the right to set up on the
user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring or metering operations.
      (2)   Where users have security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the users
shall make the necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city, approval
authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes
of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-327 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be made available to the public without restriction unless the user
specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
city that the release of such information would divulge information, processes
or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   All confidential information will be available for review for the
state and USEPA officials that are in direct control of the NPDES program upon
request, provided the requesting agency cites the authority under which it is
making the request and adequate arrangements are made to safeguard this
material.
   (C)   No employee or officer of the city may disclose or use for his or her
private advantage, any business information which came into his or her
possession, or to which he or she gained access, by virtue of his or her
official position or employment, except as authorized by the written policy for
handling confidential information. A copy of this policy will be on file in the
office of the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-328 COMPLIANCE DATE REPORT.
   Within 90 days following the date of final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Superintendent a
report with the information required in §
17-312(B)(3) through (B)(12).
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-329 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT.
   (A)   Any significant industrial user subject to a pretreatment standard,
after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or in the case of a
new source, after the commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit
to the Superintendent during the months of June and December, unless required
more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Superintendent, a report
indicating the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which
are limited by the user’s wastewater discharge permit or such pretreatment
standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period for the
discharge reported in §
17-312(B)(3), except that the Superintendent may require more detailed
reporting of flows. At the discretion of the Superintendent and in
consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget
cycles and the like, the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during
which the above reports are to be furnished submitted.
   (B)   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users where the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. In such cases, the report
required by division (A) above shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated
by the wastewater discharge permit or pretreatment standards in the effluent of
the user.
   (C)   (1)   The reports required by this chapter shall contain the results
of sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature
and concentration, or production and mass where requested by the
Superintendent, of the pollutants contained therein which are limited by the
wastewater discharge permit and/or applicable pretreatment standards. The
frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the wastewater discharge permit
or in the pretreatment standard. All sampling shall be performed in accordance
with §
17-312(B)(6) and (B)(7). All sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments
thereto. The city shall require the number of grab samples necessary to assess
and assure compliance by industrial users with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
      (2)   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the Administrator determines
that the part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed by using
validated analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical
procedures, including procedures suggested by the POTW or other parties,
approved by the Administrator.
   (D)   If the industrial user monitors any pollutant more frequently than
required by the wastewater discharge permit, using test procedures approved
under 40 C.F.R. part 136 or as specified by the permit, the results of such
monitoring shall be included in the calculation and results will be reported on
the next scheduled report to the city. Such increased monitoring frequency
shall also be indicated on the report.
   (E)   If the industrial user receives any laboratory analysis, using test
procedures approved under 40 C.F.R. part 136 or as specified by this chapter,
that is in violation of the standards as set in this chapter or the wastewater
discharge permit, the permittee will notify the Superintendent of this
violation within 24 hours of the receipt of the report.
   (F)   (1)   If the industrial user receives any laboratory analysis, using
test procedures approved under 40 C.F.R. part 136 or as specified by their
wastewater discharge permit, that is in violation of the standards as set in
their permit, the industrial user has 30 days to resample the waste stream for
the parameters in violation and submit the results of both sets of data to the
Superintendent.
      (2)   This 30-day period begins on the day the industry receives the data
in violation, except the industrial user is not required to resample if:
         (a)   The city performs sampling at the industrial user at a frequency
of at least once per month; or
         (b)   The city performs sampling at the user between the time when the
user performs its initial sampling and the time the user receives the results
of this sampling.
   (G)   All reports required by this chapter shall contain the certification
statement in division (I) below and signed by an authorized representative of
the “industrial user” (as defined in §
17-302).
   (H)   If an authorized representative is no longer accurate because of a
different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation
of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, a new authorization must be submitted to the city prior to or together
with any reports to be signed by an authorization representative.
   (I)   The following certification will accompany all reports submitted under
this chapter.
 
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information submitted
is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate and complete. I am
aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information,
including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.
 
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993; Ord. 1700, passed 9-13-2011)
§17-330 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Any industrial user subject to the reporting requirements established
by this chapter shall maintain records of all information resulting from any
monitoring activities required by this article. Such records shall include for
all samples:
      (1)   The date, exact plan, method and time of sampling and the names of
the persons taking the samples;
      (2)   The dates analyses were performed;
      (3)   Who performed the analyses;
      (4)   The analytical techniques/methods used; and
      (5)   The results of such analyses.
   (B)   Any industrial user subject to the reporting requirements established
in this chapter shall be required to retain for a minimum of three years all
records of monitoring activities and results whether or not such monitoring
activities are required by this chapter and shall make such records available
for inspection and copying by the Superintendent, Director of the Division of
Water Quality Management, State Department of Public Health or the
Environmental Protection Agency. This period of retention shall be extended
during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the industrial user or
when requested by the city, the approval authority or the Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
ARTICLE D. ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT
§17-335 PRETREATMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created and established the City
Pretreatment Board, hereinafter referred to as the “Board” which shall be
composed of three members as follows:
      (1)   City Manager or authorized representative;
      (2)   Public Works Director; and
      (3)   Superintendent.
   (B)   Duties and authority of Board.
      (1)   The Pretreatment Board is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the pretreatment program.
      (2)   Additionally, the Board shall have and exercise the power, duty and
responsibility to:
         (a)   Hear appeals from orders issued by the plant manager or permit
revocations or modifications by him or her;
         (b)   Affirm, modify or revoke such actions or orders of the
Superintendent;
         (c)   Issue notices of such appeals and subpoenas requiring attendance
of witnesses and the production of evidence;
         (d)   Receive evidence under oath;
         (e)   Take such testimony as the Board deems necessary; and
         (f)   Hold hearings where requested by the permittee or applicant for
the purpose of reviewing the denial or imposition of terms or conditions in
permits.
   (C)   Hearings. Any hearing or rehearing before the Board shall be conducted
in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written petition from the alleged violator
pursuant to this article, the Superintendent shall give the petitioner 30 days’
written notice of the time and place of the hearing, but in no case shall such
hearing be held more than 60 days from the receipt of the written petition,
unless the Superintendent and the petitioner agree to a postponement.
      (2)   The hearing herein provided may be conducted by the Board at a
regular or special meeting. A quorum of the Board must be present at the
regular or special meeting in order to conduct the hearing herein provided.
      (3)   A record of the proceedings of such hearings shall be taken and
filed with the Board, together with the findings of fact and conclusions of law
made pursuant to division (C)(6) below. The transcript so recorded shall be
made available to the petitioner or any party to a hearing upon payment of a
charge set by the Superintendent to cover the costs of preparation.
      (4)   In connection with the hearing, the Board shall issue subpoenas in
response to any reasonable request by any party to the hearing requiring the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in the hearing. In case of refusal to obey a notice of
hearing or subpoena issued under this article, the county district court shall
have jurisdiction upon the application of the Board to issue an order requiring
such person to appear and testify or produce evidence as the case may require
and any failure to obey such order of the court may be punished by such court
as contempt thereof.
      (5)   Any member of the Board may examine witnesses.
      (6)   On the basis of the evidence produced at the hearing, the Board
shall make findings of fact and conclusions of law and enter such decisions and
orders as in its opinion will best further the purposes of the pretreatment
program and shall give written notice of such decisions and orders to the
alleged violator. The order issued under this section shall be issued no later
than 30 days following the close of the hearing by the person or persons
designated by the Board.
      (7)   The decision of the Board shall become final and binding on all
parties unless appealed to the courts as provided in division (D) below.
      (8)   Any person to whom an emergency order is directed pursuant to §
17-337(B) shall comply therewith immediately but on petition to the Board shall
be afforded a hearing as soon as possible.
   (D)   Appeal. An appeal may be taken from any final order or other final
determination of the Board by any party, who is or who may be adversely
affected thereby, to the district court within 30 days from the date such order
or determination is made.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-336 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   In addition to any power, duty or responsibility given to the Superintendent
under this chapter, the Superintendent shall have the following powers, duties
and responsibilities:
   (A)   Administer and enforce the pretreatment program in accordance with 40
C.F.R. part 403, federal pretreatment program requirements and the provisions
of this chapter;
   (B)   Issue notice of violation whenever it is found that a user has
violated, or is violating any permit requirement, any order or any section of
this chapter. Such notice of violation may require submittal of a plan for
correction;
   (C)   Sign and issue consent orders assuming voluntary compliance, including
necessary remedial or preventive action, according to a fixed time schedule;
   (D)   Issue, modify or revoke permits, subject to rights of appeal
established herein;
   (E)   Conduct show cause hearings to review facts of alleged violations in
order to determine and pursue any appropriate enforcement remedy;
   (F)   File complaints on behalf of the Board, with the appropriate court,
seeking both civil and criminal remedies;
   (G)   Issue emergency orders; and
   (H)   Issue subpoenas requiring witness attendance at hearings.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-337 PROCEDURE; COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaint issued by Superintendent.
      (1)   Whenever the Superintendent has reason to believe that a violation
of any provision of the pretreatment program or orders of the Board issued
pursuant thereto has occurred, or is occurring, the Superintendent may cause a
written complaint to be served upon the alleged violator or violators.
      (2)   The complaint shall specify the provision or provisions of the
pretreatment program or order alleged to be violated, the facts alleged to
constitute a violation thereof, and may order that necessary corrective action
be taken within a reasonable time to be prescribed in such order, and shall
inform the violators of the opportunity for a hearing before the Board.
      (3)   Any such order shall become final and not subject to review unless
the person or persons named therein request by written petition a hearing
before the Board as provided in §
17-335(C)(8) no later than 30 days after the date such order is served;
provided, however, that the Board may review such final order on the same
grounds upon which a court of the state may review default judgments.
   (B)   Emergency circumstances.
      (1)   Whenever the Superintendent finds that an emergency exists
imperatively requiring immediate action to protect the public health, safety or
welfare, the health of animals, fish or aquatic life, a public water supply or
the facilities of the publicly owned treatment works, the Superintendent may,
without prior notice, issue an order reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring that such action be taken as the Superintendent deems
necessary to meet the emergency.
      (2)   If the violator fails to respond or is unable to respond to the
Superintendent’s order, the Superintendent may take such emergency action as he
or she deems necessary, including termination of service, or contract with a
qualified person or persons to carry out the emergency measures. The
Superintendent may assess the person or persons responsible for the emergency
condition for actual costs incurred by the city in meeting the emergency.
   (C)   Service of notice. Except as otherwise expressly provided, any notice,
complaint, order or other instrument issued by or under authority of this
chapter may be served on any person affected thereby personally, by the
Superintendent or any person designated by him or her, or such service may be
made in accordance with state statutes authorizing service of process in civil
action. Proof of service shall be filed in the office of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-338 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who does any of the following acts or omissions shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000
per day and costs for each day during which the act or omission continues or
occurs:
   (A)   Violates an effluent standard or limitation imposed by the
pretreatment program;
   (B)   Violates the terms or conditions of a permit issued pursuant to the
pretreatment program;
   (C)   Fails to complete a filing requirement of the pretreatment program;
   (D)   Fails to allow or perform an entry, inspection, monitoring or
reporting requirements of the pretreatment program;
   (E)   Fails to pay user or cost recovery charges imposed by the pretreatment
program; or
   (F)   Violates a final determination or order of the Board or
Superintendent.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-339 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
   As required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.8, federal pretreatment program requirement,
the city will publish annually in the largest daily newspaper the names of all
industrial/commercial users which at any time during the year were in
significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment requirements.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-340 ASSESSMENT FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH PERMITS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may assess the liability of any polluter or
violator for damages to the city resulting from any person’s or industrial
user’s pollution or violation, failure or neglect in complying with any permits
or orders issued pursuant to the provisions of the pretreatment program or §§
17-335 through
17-338.
   (B)   If an appeal from such assessment is not made to the Board by the
polluter or violator within 30 days of notification of such assessment, he or
she shall be deemed to have consented to such assessment and it shall become
final.
   (C)   Damages may include any expenses incurred in investigating and
enforcing the pretreatment program or §§
17-335 through
17-338, in removing, correcting and terminating any pollution, and also
compensation for any actual damages caused by the pollution or violation.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever any assessment has become final because of a person’s
failure to appeal within the time provided, the Superintendent may apply to the
appropriate court for a judgment and seek execution on such judgment.
      (2)   The court, in such proceedings, shall treat the failure to appeal
such assessment as a confession of judgment in the amount of the assessment.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-341 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of the pretreatment program for any person to
knowingly make any false statement, representation or certification in any
application, record, report, plan or other document filed or required to be
maintained pursuant to this chapter or wastewater discharge permit, or to
falsify, tamper with or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring device or
method required under this chapter.
   (B)   Any such violator found to be falsifying information shall be subject
to any of the enforcement provisions of this chapter, including termination of
service and civil penalties.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-342 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS AND RELIEF.
   (A)   The Superintendent may initiate proceedings in the county district
court against any person or industrial user who is alleged to have violated the
pretreatment program, or orders of the Board or Superintendent.
   (B)   In such action, the Superintendent may seek, and the court may grant,
injunctive relief and any other relief available in law or equity.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Assessment for noncompliance with permits and orders, see §
17-340
§17-343 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Discharges of wastewater in any manner in violation of this chapter or of
any order issued by the Superintendent as authorized by this chapter is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
Superintendent. Any persons creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the city codes or ordinances governing such nuisance.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-344 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies set forth in this chapter are cumulative. The use of one remedy
shall not be a bar to the use of any other remedy provided by law or by this
chapter.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-345 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The following persons are hereby vested with full authority to enforce the
provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Superintendent;
   (B)   Any duly authorized employee or officer of the city;
   (C)   An authorized representative of the City-County Health Department; and
   (D)   Such other persons as authorized under specific provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
ARTICLE E. FEES AND BILLING
§17-350 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the equitable recovery of
costs from users of the city’s wastewater treatment system, including costs of
operation, maintenance, administration, bond service costs, capital
improvements, depreciation and equitable cost recovery of EPA administered
federal wastewater grants.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-351 TYPES OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   The charges and fees as established in the city’s schedule of charges and
fees may include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Fees for applications for discharge;
   (B)   Inspection fee and tapping fee;
   (C)   Sewer use charge;
   (D)   Surcharge fees;
   (E)   Industrial wastewater discharge permit fees;
   (F)   Fees for industrial discharge monitoring; and
   (G)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-352 FEES FOR APPLICATIONS FOR DISCHARGE.
   A fee may be charged when a user or prospective user makes application for
discharge as required by this article.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-353 SURCHARGE FEES.
   If it is determined by the city that the discharge of other loading
parameters or wastewater substances are creating excessive operation and
maintenance costs within the wastewater system, whether collection or
treatment, then the monetary effect of such a parameter or parameters shall be
borne by the discharger of such parameters in proportion to the amount of
discharge.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-354 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT FEE.
   A fee may be charged for the issuance of an industrial wastewater discharge
fee in accordance with this article.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
§17-355 FEES FOR INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE MONITORING.
   Fees may be collected from industrial users having pretreatment or other
discharge requirements to compensate the city for the necessary compliance
monitoring and other administrative duties of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993)
ARTICLE F. STORMWATER SEWER SYSTEM DISCHARGE
§17-360 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of this article is to provide for the health, safety
and welfare of people of the city by the regulation of non-stormwater
discharges to the city’s municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4).
      (2)   This article sets forth uniform requirements to regulate the direct
or indirect introduction of pollutants into the MS4 in order for the city to
comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) stormwater regulations (40
C.F.R. part 122) and the state pollution discharge elimination system (“OPDES”)
(OAC:252-606-1-1).
   (B)   The objectives of this article are to:
      (1)   Control the direct or indirect introduction of pollutants into the
MS4 by stormwater discharges from any source or user;
      (2)   Control the introduction into the MS4 of any spills, dumped or
disposed material other than stormwater;
      (3)   Prohibit illicit connections and illegal discharges to MS4; and
      (4)   Establish legal authority for inspection, surveillance and
monitoring of the MS4 to ensure compliance and identify noncompliance with this
article.
(Ord. 1745, passed 11-10-2015)
§17-361 DEFINITIONS.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). The best available practices or devices used
singly or in combination to eliminate or reduce pollution entering the MS4.
   DISCHARGE. To cause or allow any release, spill, drain, dump or pour of any
pollutants into the MS4.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system, including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge,
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the MS4 not composed entirely of
stormwater except those allowable discharges listed in §
17-362 .
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including streets, curbs, gutters, storm drains, catch basins,
natural and human-made channels and ditches) owned and/or maintained by the
city and designed for collecting and conveying stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt,
soil, sediment, building materials, industrial or agricultural waste.
   POLLUTION. Human-made or human-induced alteration to the physical, chemical,
biological or radiological properties of water.
   PREMISES. Any plot or tract of property, regardless of size or plat, owned
or used by any person.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   USER. Any source of direct or indirect discharge to the city municipal
separate storm sewer system.
(Ord. 1745, passed 11-10-2015)
§17-362 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges. It is prohibited to discharge, allow to
discharge or cause the discharge of any materials other than stormwater into
the MS4. All nonstormwater discharges are prohibited except those listed in
division (B) below. It shall be unlawful for any material other than
stormwater, which is stored, spilled or disposed of in such a manner that
causes pollutants to be discharged; such as discarded building materials, soil,
silt, sediment, commercial/industrial vehicle wash water, litter, yard waste,
chemicals or any other pollutant.
   (B)   Allowable discharges. The following discharges are allowed unless they
are determined by the City Manager or his or her designee to cause
contamination of stormwater, surface water or groundwater; cause overload or
damage to the MS4; endanger public health and safety; or cause the city to
violate its State Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ) issued permit(s)
or any other applicable state or federal permit:
      (1)   Water line flushing;
      (2)   Landscape irrigation;
      (3)   Diverted stream flows;
      (4)   Rising groundwaters;
      (5)   Residential building wash water without detergents;
      (6)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
      (7)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
      (8)   Discharges from potable water sources;
      (9)   Foundation drains;
      (10)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (11)   Irrigation water;
      (12)   Springs;
      (13)   Water from crawl space pumps;
      (14)   Footing drains;
      (15)   Lawn watering;
      (16)   Individual residential car washing;
      (17)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (18)   Street wash water;
      (19)   Fire hydrant flushings;
      (20)   Noncommercial or charity car washes;
      (21)   Discharge from riparian areas and wetlands;
      (22)   Discharges in compliance with a separate state pollutant discharge
elimination system (OPDES) or national pollutant discharge elimination system
(NPDES) permit;
      (23)   Discharges or flows from emergency firefighting activities
provided procedures are in place for the incident commander, Fire Chief or
other on scene firefighting official in charge to make an evaluation regarding
potential releases of pollutants from the scene. Measures must be taken to
reduce any such pollutant to the maximum extent practicable subject to all
appropriate actions necessary to ensure public health and safety; and
      (24)   Any other type of discharge determined allowable by the City
Manager.
   (C)   Portable spray washing. Discharges to the MS4 resulting from cleaning
of vehicle exteriors, parking lots, driveways and other paved areas with
portable spray washers are allowed with the following requirements:
      (1)   Only biodegradable cleaners are used;
      (2)   The operator must use best management practices (BMPs) to prevent
or reduce the discharge to the MS4; and
      (2)   All other provisions of this article are met.
   (D)   Construction activities. All earth disturbing construction activities,
including developing, grading, excavating, paving, land filling, berming and
diking, shall be performed in such a manner as to minimize erosion and the
discharge of sediment and other pollutants into the MS4. The erosion or
conveyance of soil or sediment onto any city easement, right-of-way, park,
alley or street shall be prohibited. All such construction activities are also
subject to the requirements of the city engineering design criteria for street,
storm drainage, water lines and sanitary sewers as incorporated in this code or
city ordinances.
   (E)   NPDES permitted activities. Any person, business or entity that
performs an activity which requires an NPDES stormwater permit shall provide to
the city, a minimum of two business days prior to performing such permitted
activity, copies of permits, applications and any other records or
correspondence pertaining to the permit.
   (F)   Records. Any person, business or entity which discharges or causes to
be discharged stormwater to the MS4 shall provide the city with copies of any
records or correspondence determined to be necessary to ensure compliance with
this article.
   (G)   Best management practices (BMP). If a discharge to the city MS4 is,
has or has the potential to cause pollution to the MS4 or local water bodies,
BMP(s) must be employed to prevent or reduce the pollution. Additionally, BMP
(s) shall be used to prevent spills or other accidental introduction of
pollutants into the MS4.
   (H)   Spill reporting.
      (1)   Within one hour of discovery, written or verbal notification must
be made to the City Manager of any spill, release or other event which has or
will likely result in a discharge of pollutants into the MS4. Notification
shall include the location, time, type and volume of the event as well as
corrective actions taken.
      (2)   If verbal notification is given written notification to the City
Manager shall be made within five days of the event. These notifications are in
addition to any other state or federal spill reporting or abatement
requirements.
(Ord. 1745, passed 11-10-2015)
§17-363 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Illicit discharge sampling and inspections.
      (1)   Sampling. When the City Manager or authorized representative has
reason to believe that a discharge is an illicit discharge, the city may obtain
a suitable sample for analysis. If the discharge is shown to be illicit, full
recovery of the cost of sampling and analysis shall be paid by the responsible
party.
      (2)   Inspections. The City Manager or authorized representative shall be
permitted to gain access to any premises or property necessary for the purpose
of inspection, sampling, observing or monitoring the MS4 to determine
compliance with this article.
   (B)   Construction discharges. When the City Manager or his or her designee
finds that any construction activity is causing erosion and/or the discharge of
sediment or other pollutants into the MS4 system, such activity shall be a
violation of this article.
   (C)   Administrative enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Notice of violation.
         (a)   When the City Manager or his or her designee finds that there
has been a violation of any provision of this article, he or she shall issue a
notice of violation (NOV) to the responsible party. Such notice may require,
without limitation:
            1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
            2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
            3.   The violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease
and desist;
            4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
            5.   Payment of an administrative fine;
            6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs; or
            7.   Any combination of the above that is appropriate for the
circumstances.
         (b)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected
property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. The notice shall advise that,
should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor, and the expense shall be charged to the violator. Failure to comply
with the notice will result in the issuance of a stop work order and
administrative fines. The expense if unpaid by the violator shall be filed as a
lien on any real property owned by the violator in the county, attached as an
additional charge on any utility bill in the violator’s name for utilities
furnished by the city to the violator and it may also be recovered by legal
action filed in the county district court. Any combination of the above
remedies are available to the city. These remedies are in addition to any
criminal penalties that may be applicable.
      (2)   Stop work order. If it is determined by the City Manager, based
upon an on-site inspection, that the violation has not ceased and the cause is
a construction discharge, or if the developer/owner is performing earth
changing activities without a permit, then the developer/owner may be served
with a stop work order and a notice of violation of this article. No further
work on the project shall proceed after the stop work order is issued until
such time as the developer/owner has preformed any remediation, complied with
adequate erosion/sediment control and same meets approval of the City Manager
or his or her designee. A reinspection will be required prior to the lifting of
the stop work order. Reinspection fees will be as set out in the fee schedule.
      (3)   Administrative fines. Notwithstanding any other section of this
article, any person or entity found to be in violation of this article shall be
fined an amount of not less than $200 nor more than $1,000 for each violation
or failure to comply on a per day basis.
         (a)   Administrative fines must be paid within 30 days of receipt of
notification.
         (b)   Each day that a violation or failure to comply exists shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
         (c)   Unpaid fines shall constitute a lien against the violator’s
property located within the county and a lien will be filed by the City Clerk
on notice of failure to pay by the City Manager or his or her designee.
         (d)   Administrative fines shall not be a prerequisite for other
action.
      (4)   Utility service severance. Any person, business or entity that
violates the provisions of this article may be subject to severance of utility
service from the city. Service will recommence, and all reconnection charges
will be paid by the violator when compliance is achieved or written
arrangements to correct the violation(s) is submitted to and approved by the
city.
      (5)   Suspension of permit issuance. Any person, business or entity that
violates the provisions of this article will be denied the issuance of any
other city permits, approvals or inspections whether for this property or any
other property on which the violator has an interest either as owner or
licensed contractor until the violation(s) is corrected or written arrangements
to correct the violation(s) is submitted to and accepted by, the city.
   (D)   Injunction and criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. Whenever any person, business or entity violates
or continues to violate the provision of this article, the city may petition
the county district court for the issuance of a temporary restraining order,
preliminary or permanent injunction to restrain or compel action on the part of
the violator.
      (2)   Criminal prosecution. Any person, business or entity which violates
the provisions of this article shall be liable to criminal prosecution by the
city in municipal criminal court for a maximum penalty of $1,000 per violation
per day and/or imprisonment for a period of not more than 30 days.
      (3)   Remedies nonexclusive. The provisions of this section are not
exclusive remedies. The city reserves the right to take any, all or any
combination of these actions against violators of this article.
(Ord. 1745, passed 11-10-2015)
ARTICLE G. CONFLICT
§17-370 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 1335, passed 6-22-1993; Ord. 1745, passed 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 4: ELECTRIC SYSTEM
Section
   
17-401   Applications and permits
   
17-402   Connections
   
17-403   Connection with lines
   
17-404   Accounts against number of property and premises
   
17-405   Unlawful to furnish additional families or premises
   
17-406   Unlawful to use current through defective fixtures
   
17-407   Meters
   
17-408   Meter ownership; requirements; administrative review
   
17-409   Rates
   
17-410   Free access
   
17-411   Discontinuance of service; notice
   
17-412   Request to be made
   
17-413   Rates charged against premises
   
17-414   Right to shut off current
   
17-415   Penalty
§17-401 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   All applications and permits for connection with and use of light and
power facilities shall be made in conformity with Authority requirements and
standards for wiring and construction and on forms as required by the
Authority.
   (B)   Any person desiring to secure service from the Authority shall make an
application therefor to the Authority on an application form to be provided.
The applicant shall give such reasonable information as the Authority may
request. The applicant agrees, by making such application, that he or she will
abide by all ordinances, rules and regulations governing the electric system.
§17-402 CONNECTIONS.
   Upon presentation to the Authority of proper application, a permit shall be
issued to connect the light and power lines with the property described in the
application, and such connections shall be made from the light and power lines
to the premises or building described in the application as shall be necessary
to furnish light and power to the occupant of the premises described.
§17-403 CONNECTION WITH LINES.
   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with any wire or
fixtures of any character belonging to the light and power system of the
Authority without first having obtained permission so to do from the Authority.
§17-404 ACCOUNTS AGAINST NUMBER OF PROPERTY AND PREMISES.
   (A)   All accounts for the use of light and power shall be kept against the
number of the premises and property described for which the service is
installed.
   (B)   A tenant or person holding under lease may be supplied with electrical
current on his or her own account when proper application is made.
§17-405 UNLAWFUL TO FURNISH ADDITIONAL FAMILIES OR PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person whose premises are supplied with electrical
current from the Authority lines to install additional fixtures on a premises
or to use the current for purposes other than those stated in the application,
or to furnish current to additional families or premises, unless he or she
shall first make application and receive permission in the same manner as
provided in the original application and permit.
§17-406 UNLAWFUL TO USE CURRENT THROUGH DEFECTIVE FIXTURES.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any current from the electrical system
or allow it to be used on any premises where the wiring or fixtures are not in
good repair or where the machinery is in bad repair or does not comply with the
standards required by the city ordinances or Authority rules.
§17-407 METERS.
   The Authority is authorized and directed to install meters on the service of
each and every person using light and power.
§17-408 METER OWNERSHIP; REQUIREMENTS; ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   All meters put in by the Authority shall be and remain the
property of the Authority and are not to be removed unless the use of current
on the premises is entirely stopped and the service connection discontinued or
abandoned.
      (2)   In all cases where meters are lost, injured or broken by
carelessness or negligence on the part of the owners or occupants of the
premises, they shall be replaced by the Authority and the costs charged against
the owners or occupants.
   (B)   (1)   In the event of the meter getting out of order or failing to
register properly, the consumer shall be entitled to an administrative review
of the electric bill. Procedures for the administrative review shall be
developed by the city’s Utilities Authority and shall be heard by the City
Attorney.
      (2)   The consumer shall be required to post a bond which will be in an
amount equal to an estimate based on the average monthly consumption during the
last three months the same was in good order.
      (3)   (a)   The City Attorney may administratively adjust, in his or her
discretion and for the purposes of equity, any billing when presented with
evidence showing:
            1.   A billing was incorrectly charged; and/or
            2.   The user did not actually utilize the service charged.
         (b)   Any adjustment decision of the City Attorney shall be
administratively final.
      (4)   Upon completion of the consumer’s administrative hearing, the
consumer’s bond shall be surrendered to the Utilities Authority to satisfy any
disputed billing and/or be credited to the consumer’s next billing cycle.
      (5)   During the pendency of any utility fee dispute, and, upon the
proper posting of bond, the Utilities Authority shall not interfere with the
consumer’s utility service.
(Ord. 1760, passed 9-13-2016)
§17-409 RATES.
   Rates for the use of electrical current, to be charged to consumers thereof,
shall be fixed by resolution or motion of the Authority.
§17-410 FREE ACCESS.
   All authorized employees or agents of the Authority shall, upon presentation
of proper credentials, have free access at all reasonable hours to any premises
supplied with electrical current from the electrical system, for the purpose of
making inspection of the wiring, fixtures or meter thereon.
§17-411 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE.
   Whenever the owner or occupant of any premises connected with the electrical
system desires to discontinue the use of electrical current, he or she shall
notify the Authority, in writing, unless otherwise agreed by the Authority, and
thereupon the Authority shall disconnect the premises concerning which notice
of discontinuance has been given.
§17-412 REQUEST TO BE MADE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner or person connected with the light and
power system to disconnect from the system unless he or she shall have first
made a request, in writing if so required by the Authority, that the service of
electrical current to the premises be discontinued, and shall pay all
arrearages due for the use of electrical current on the premises.
   (B)   When current has been cut off from any premises upon application of
the owner or occupant of the premises, or for nonpayment of charges, or for any
other cause, it is unlawful to again connect such premises except upon
application to and by the Authority.
§17-413 RATES CHARGED AGAINST PREMISES.
   All electrical current rates will be charged against premises for which the
service is installed, and same shall be a lien against the premises in the
event they become delinquent and unpaid.
§17-414 RIGHT TO SHUT OFF CURRENT.
   The Authority reserves the right, at all times, without notice, to shut off
current for light and power in the event it is found necessary on account of
repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates, noncompliance with applicable codes,
or any other reason; and the Authority shall not be responsible for any
stoppages or interruptions in the supply or current or for any other damages
resulting from the shutting off.
§17-415 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and on conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
1-108.
CHAPTER 5: GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE
Section
   
17-501   Definitions
   
17-502   Garbage to be collected
   
17-503   Containers, plastic bags and garbage cans
   
17-504   Garbage and trash in containers, cans
   
17-505   Ashes in separate container
   
17-506   Tree trimmings
   
17-507   Sewage to be drained off
   
17-508   Dead animals
   
17-509   Garbage, trash and ashes collected by city; placement of containers
   
17-510   Garbage, how disposed of
   
17-511   Garbage on streets, sidewalks and lots
   
17-512   Containers
   
17-513   Rates
   
17-514   Leaves, grass cuttings, weed cuttings, tree and shrub trimmings,
ashes, trash and other debris
   
17-515   Charges of commercial or large business units using large containers
   
17-516   Scavenging prohibited
   
17-517   Penalty
§17-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from substances used for fuel in connection with the
ordinary conduct of heating and cooking, and also such refuse as broken
crockery, glass, metal other than tin cans, and other similar items which may
not be suitable for burning in the incinerator but which may be dumped with
ashes.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen and table refuse, offal and every accumulation of animal
and vegetable matter which attends the preparation, decay of, dealing in or
storage of, meats, fruits, vegetables and other provisions for human
subsistence.
   SEWAGE. Water, human excrement and liquid refuse that should properly be
disposed of through the sanitary sewers of the city, but shall not include
rainwater, soil drainage or other drainage.
   TRASH. Paper, rags, containers of paper, wood or tin, tin cans, yard and
house sweeping, and all other household wastes except tree trimming, building
and manufacturing wastes, sewage, garbage and ashes, as herein defined,
grasses, weeds, leaves and rocks.
§17-502 GARBAGE TO BE COLLECTED.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation using or occupying any building,
house or structure within the city shall be required to collect, separate and
dispose of all garbage, trash, ashes and sewage as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any such person, firm or corporation to collect,
separate or dispose of garbage, trash, ashes or sewage in any manner except as
is provided herein.
§17-503 CONTAINERS, PLASTIC BAGS AND GARBAGE CANS.
   Every person, firm or corporation using and occupying any building, house or
structure within the city shall:
   (A)   If residing in an area where containers are provided, use those
containers so provided for their garbage or place their garbage in plastic bags
securely tied. Contents of the plastic bag shall not exceed 50 pounds in weight
and the plastic bags shall be of sufficient thickness to permit lifting or
handling without breakage or rupture of the bag; or
   (B)   If residing in an area where containers are not provided by the
Authority, provide and maintain garbage containers constructed of substantial
watertight material having a tight lid or cover and substantial handles on the
side of such can. Such containers shall be of sufficient number and size and
hold the garbage and trash which will ordinarily accumulate between the times
when the garbage is collected.
§17-504 GARBAGE AND TRASH IN CONTAINERS, CANS.
   (A)   All garbage, as defined herein, shall be placed in the containers
provided, plastic bags or, where permitted, garbage cans maintained for that
purpose. Before placing the garbage in the containers provided, plastic bags or
garbage cans, all liquid portions of the garbage shall be drained into the
sanitary sewer. The lid or cover on the containers or on the garbage cans must
be kept closed and fastened so that flies and other insects or animals may not
have access to the contents therein, and shall be removed only while depositing
additional garbage or trash or while the Authority employees are removing and
unloading the contents of the containers or the garbage cans for disposal.
   (B)   All trash, as defined herein, shall be placed in the containers
provided or garbage cans where permitted with the garbage but only to such
extent as will permit the cover or lid of the container or can to be properly
placed thereon. All trash in excess of that placed in the container or can with
the garbage shall be placed in a separate container or bundle not exceeding 50
pounds in weight and securely tied and fastened so that it may be safely
carried without coming apart or spilling.
   (C)   Containers or cans containing other than garbage and trash, as defined
herein, will not be collected until such prohibited materials have been removed
by the person responsible for placing them in the container or can and the
collector shall promptly report such person to the Authority.
§17-505 ASHES IN SEPARATE CONTAINER.
   (A)   All ashes, as defined herein, shall be placed in a separate container
for that purpose. The container shall be a proper, watertight container capable
of holding ashes and the container and contents shall not exceed 50 pounds in
weight. Under no condition shall ashes be placed in containers provided for
garbage or in garbage cans or mixed with the garbage or trash.
   (B)   Any ashes placed in improper, unauthorized or leaking containers will
not be removed by the collector; nor will ashes be removed from any container
when the container is filled so full that it cannot be dumped without spilling.
The collector shall report all such improper placing of ashes to the Authority.
§17-506 TREE TRIMMINGS.
   Tree trimmings, building and manufacturing wastes, grasses, weeds, leaves
and rocks shall not be allowed to accumulate upon any premises in the city so
as to create a menace to health, a fire hazard or an unsightly appearance; and
shall be removed at the expense of the person responsible for the accumulation.
Under no condition may tree trimmings, grasses, weeds, leaves or building and
manufacturing wastes be burned within the city unless they are burned by
Authority personnel acting in line of duty.
§17-507 SEWAGE TO BE DRAINED OFF.
   All sewage, as herein defined, shall be drained off and disposed of through
the proper receptacles into the sanitary sewer.
§17-508 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The carcass of a dead animal of such small size as to permit the cover
being properly placed on the container or garbage can after it has been placed
therein may be placed in the container or can with the garbage. The carcass of
a dead animal too large to be placed in the container or garbage can must be
disposed of by the owner or at his or her expense.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to bury, or cause
to be buried, the carcass of any dead animal in any street, park, private
premises or any other public or private place within the city.
§17-509 GARBAGE, TRASH AND ASHES COLLECTED BY CITY; PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation may deposit, or cause to be deposited,
in or on any street, alley or sidewalk area any filth, garbage, ashes, rubbish,
sweepings, paper, trash, leaves or any other such waste materials; nor may any
of the foregoing materials other than ashes, soil, leaves, refuse from building
materials such as plaster, brick and the like, or other suitable nonoffensive
materials, be placed or dumped on any lot within the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful to place upon the sidewalk area, alleys or streets any
sweepings or trash from stores or other buildings, or any leaves, yard
cleanings, debris from pruning or other refuse materials.
   (C)   In areas where containers are provided by the city and pick up of
garbage is curbside service only, residents shall not place the containers or
plastic bags on the curb earlier than 4:00 p.m. on the day immediately before
the day designated for pick up and shall remove the containers from the curb no
later than 12:00 p.m. on the day immediately following the day designated for
pick up.
   (D)   A civilian volunteer enforcement unit may be established by the Chief
of Police for enforcement of this section providing:
      (1)   Each volunteer is required to participate in and complete a
training program of no less than two hours in length;
      (2)   Each volunteer is assigned an identification number and provided
with official identification and equipment to assist volunteers in the conduct
of their duties;
      (3)   Uniform procedures are to be established for volunteers to follow
in determining whether a violation has occurred;
      (4)   Uniform procedures are to be established for reporting violations,
including the identification number of the volunteer;
      (5)   Photographs are taken for each citation written;
      (6)   Only Police Department personnel are authorized to process or
contract for processing of all film or digital media submitted by volunteers;
      (7)   All photographs evidencing a violation are required to be available
for inspection in any proceeding to adjudicate the liability for such
violation;
      (8)   A certificate, sworn to or affirmed by a Police Department
employee, based upon the inspection of photographs produced from film or
digital media submitted by volunteers, shall be prima facie evidence of the
facts contained therein;
      (9)   In all instances where there is a violation relating to placement
of trash carts, sentinels will complete a standardized affidavit reflecting
date, time and location of violation. Affidavit will be attached to citation
and be signed by sentinel; and
      (10)   All such photographs are prohibited for use for any other purpose
than as evidence of a violation.
   (E)   A notice of violation shall be sent by first class mail to each person
alleged to be liable as an owner or occupant for a violation of a garbage or
refuse law or ordinance. A manual or automatic record of mailing prepared in
the ordinary course of business shall be prima facie evidence of the facts
contained therein.
      (1)   A notice of violation shall reference the law which was allegedly
violated and shall contain the name and address of the person alleged to be
liable as an owner or occupant for a violation of a garbage or refuse law or
ordinance, the location where such violation took place, the date and time of
such violation and the identification number of the volunteer who recorded the
violation.
      (2)   A notice of violation shall contain information advising the person
charged of the manner and time in which he or she may contest the violation
alleged in the notice, and shall also contain a warning to advise the persons
charged that failure to contest in the manner and time provided shall be deemed
an admission of liability and that a default judgment may be entered thereon.
   (F)   Any person who violates this section, either willfully or through
failure to exercise due care and control, is subject to the penalties
prescribed in this chapter.
   (G)   Upon conviction of provisions of this section, the Police Department
shall have the authority to dedicate not less than 12.5% of any fine that
resulted from citations or for violations of the garbage or refuse regulations
to be deposited in a special dedicated fund to be used by the city for the sole
purpose of establishing, maintaining and perpetuating a citizen volunteer
violation unit.
(Ord. 1657, passed 10-9-2007)
§17-510 GARBAGE, HOW DISPOSED OF.
   All garbage, trash and ashes collected shall be disposed of in such manner
as the Authority may provide.
§17-511 GARBAGE ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND LOTS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation may deposit or cause to be deposited,
in or on any street, alley or sidewalk area any filth, garbage, ashes, rubbish,
sweepings, paper, trash, leaves or any other such waste materials; nor may any
of the foregoing materials other than ashes, soil, leaves, refuse from building
materials such as plaster, brick and the like, or other suitable nonoffensive
materials, be placed or dumped on any lot within the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful to place upon the sidewalk area, alleys or streets any
sweepings or trash from stores or other buildings, or any leaves, yard
cleanings, debris from pruning or other refuse materials.
§17-512 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Each dwelling, residence or business unit located within an area of
the city wherein containers are provided by the Authority shall use the
containers provided or plastic bags as permitted by the Authority or if not in
area where containers are provided by the Authority shall furnish their
containers in keeping with Authority requirements.
   (B)   Containers or plastic bags containing wet garbage shall be covered
using a suitable lid so as to prevent flies, other insects, rodents and other
animals. Garbage service in areas wherein the Authority has provided containers
shall be alley and curbside service only and at the rates established for
residential and small business users.
§17-513 RATES.
   Rates for garbage service shall be as set by the Authority by motion or
resolution.
(Ord. 1162, passed 3-9-1982)
§17-514 LEAVES, GRASS CUTTINGS, WEED CUTTINGS, TREE AND SHRUB TRIMMINGS, ASHES,
TRASH AND OTHER DEBRIS.
   (A)   Leaves, grass cuttings, weed cuttings, trimmings from small shrubs,
ashes, trash and other debris shall be placed in a suitable container or
plastic bag to be eligible for pick up.
   (B)   Trimmings from large shrubs, trees, stumps, rocks, broken concrete or
similar materials will not be picked up as a part of regular garbage service.
   (C)   Arrangements for pick up of material of this type shall be made with
the Authority.
§17-515 CHARGES OF COMMERCIAL OR LARGE BUSINESS UNITS USING LARGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The rates for commercial or large business units using containers in
excess of 55-gallon capacity shall be determined by the time needed to service
the business unit, plus the cost per hour for labor and truck operating cost,
to be determined by the Authority for each commercial or large business unit.
   (B)   No deviation from the rates set by the Authority shall be made, except
by written contract between the Authority and a commercial or large business
unit.
§17-516 SCAVENGING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section SCAVENGING means the collecting,
hauling, transporting or removal of any material or any residue or part
thereof, of any kind of whatsoever nature, from any dump ground, sanitary
landfill, garbage or trash disposal facility, or sewage disposal facility,
provided or maintained by the city or Authority for such purposes.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, unless expressly
licensed or permitted by the city or Authority, to enter upon any dump ground,
sanitary landfill, garbage or trash disposal facility or sewage disposal
facility maintained by the city or Authority for such purposes and engage in
scavenging, as defined herein.
§17-517 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or
declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any
act required by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when such
provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as follows:
   (A)   Violations of this chapter are subject to the following specific
penalties:
      (1)   First offense: $25 fine plus costs;
      (2)   Second offense: $50 fine plus costs; and
      (3)   Third offense: $100 fine plus costs.
   (B)   All offenses in excess of three in a 12-month period shall
automatically revert to the general penalty provisions as contained within §
1-108(A).
(Ord. 1659, passed 10-23-2007)
CHAPTER 6: PENALTY
Section
   
17-601   Penalty
§17-601 PENALTY.
   Any person violating these regulations shall, upon conviction in municipal
court, be punished as provided in §
1-108, in addition to any other actions and remedies available.
APPENDICES
Appendix
   
1.    ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
   
2.    GAS FRANCHISE
   
3.    CABLE FRANCHISE
   
4.    CITY HOSPITAL AUTHORITY
   
5.    CITY INDUSTRIAL FOUNDATION
   
6.    CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES AUTHORITY
   
7.    ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
   
8.    MASTER SIDEWALK PLAN AMENDMENTS
APPENDIX 1: ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
852      4-24-1973   Grants electric franchise to Public Service Company of
                     Oklahoma for 25 years.
1481     2-23-1999   Grants electric franchise to Public Service Company of
                     Oklahoma for 25 years.
                    
 
APPENDIX 2: GAS FRANCHISE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants to Arkansas Louisiana Gas Company, a division of
1258     9-23-1986   Arkla, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, its successors and
                     assigns, a gas franchise for a term of 25 years.
                     Grants to Centerpoint Energy Resources Corp., DBA
1697     6-28-2011   Centerpoint Energy Oklahoma Gas, its successors and
                     assigns, a gas franchise for a term of 25 years.
                    
 
APPENDIX 3: CABLE FRANCHISE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1392     3-26-1996   Grants to TCI Cablevision of Oklahoma, Inc., a franchise
                     for a term of 25 years.
1827     3-8-2022    Granting to Clarity Telecom, LLC a non-exclusive permit
                     for the construction and operation of a cable system.
                    
 
APPENDIX 4: CITY HOSPITAL AUTHORITY
Section
   
1   Acceptance of beneficial interest in City Hospital Authority
§ 1 ACCEPTANCE OF BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN CITY HOSPITAL AUTHORITY.
   The trust indenture dated October 26, 1976, creating the City Hospital
Authority, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk, wherein
the city is declared to be the beneficiary of the trust, be and the same is
hereby approved and the city accepts the trust as the beneficiary thereof. The
Mayor is authorized and directed to execute the acceptance of the beneficial
interest for and on behalf of the city.
APPENDIX 5: CITY INDUSTRIAL FOUNDATION
Section
   
1   Trust accepted
§ 1 TRUST ACCEPTED.
   The trust indenture by and between the City Industrial Foundation, as
trustor, and Nolen Gugua, Gene Nelson and Jack Murer as Trustees, dated as of
December 13, 1966, creating the City Industrial Authority, a copy of which is
on file in the office of the City Clerk, wherein the city is declared to be the
beneficiary of the trust, be and the same is hereby approved and the city
accepts the trust as the beneficiary thereof.
APPENDIX 6: CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES AUTHORITY
Section
   
1   Acceptance of beneficial interest
   
2   Declaration and covenant
   
3   Name
   
4   Purposes
   
5   Duration
   
6   Trust estate
   
7   The Trustees
   
8   Powers and duties of Trustees
   
9   Beneficiary
   
10   Termination
   
11   Partial ineffectiveness
   
12   Covenant
§ 1 ACCEPTANCE OF BENEFICIAL IN-TEREST.
   On this September 25, 1984, pursuant to resolution duly adopted by its
governing body, the city and the governing body of the city, hereby accept for,
and on behalf of the city, the beneficial interest in the city’s Public
Utilities Authority Trust in all respects in accordance with the terms of the
declaration of trust.
(Res. passed 9-25-1984)
§ 2 DECLARATION AND COVENANT.
   The undersigned trustor hereby contracts with the undersigned Trustees, and
the latter, as individuals and not as holders of public office, hereby do
declare and covenant, between themselves and unto the trustor, the state and
the beneficiary hereinafter described, that they and their successors do and
will hold, receive and administer the trust estate hereinafter described, as
Trustees of a public trust under and pursuant to the laws of the state now in
force and effect (generally, but not exclusively, 60 O.S. §§ 176 and 180 and
the State Trust Act), solely for the use and benefit of the beneficiary for the
public purposes and functions hereinafter set forth, in the manner provided in
this instrument, or in the absence of applicable provision herein, then in the
manner now provided by law. The aforesaid public trust is created by virtue of
the executive of this instrument by the individuals signing the same as the
trustor and initial Trustees hereunder; and neither the acceptance of the
beneficial interest hereunder, nor the endorsement hereon of such acceptance,
for and on behalf of the designated beneficiary as provided by law, nor the
fact that, at the time of signing this instrument, some or all of the initial
Trustees are members of the governing body thereof, shall be deemed or
construed to be the creation of a public trust by the beneficiary or the
governing body thereof.
§ 3 NAME.
   The name of this trust shall be, and the Trustees thereof in their
representative fiduciary capacity shall be designated as the city’s Public
Utilities Authority. Under that name, the Trustees shall, so far as
practicable, conduct all business and execute all instruments in writing, and
otherwise perform their duties and functions, in execution of this trust.
§ 4 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purposes of this trust, for and on behalf of the beneficiary as
hereinafter described, are:
      (1)   To furnish and supply to the inhabitants, owners and occupants of
property, and to industrial, commercial and mercantile establishments and
enterprises within the corporate limits of the beneficiary and in territory in
reasonably convenient proximity thereto, and to the beneficiary and any other
governmental agencies or endeavors, utility services and facilities for all
purposes that the same be authorized or proper as a function of the
beneficiary; and to fix, demand and collect charges, rates and fees for the
services and facilities to the same extent as the beneficiary itself might do;
provided, that the furnishing of any services or facilities to any person
delinquent in the payment of any indebtedness whatsoever to the trust may be
discontinued at any time;
      (2)   To promote the development of industry and culture and industrial,
manufacturing, cultural and educational activities within and without the
territorial limits of the beneficiary and to thereby provide industrial and
cultural facilities and additional employment and activities which will benefit
and strengthen culture and the economy of the beneficiary and the state;
      (3)   For the furtherance of the greater convenience and welfare of the
beneficiary and the inhabitants thereof, to provide or to aid in providing or
to participate in providing to the United States of America, the state, the
beneficiary, the county or counties in which the beneficiary is located, the
school district or districts included in whole or in part, within the limits of
the beneficiary, or any agency or instrumentality of either or any of them, or
to any one or more of them, facilities or services of any or all kinds
necessary or convenient for the functioning thereof;
      (4)   To hold, maintain and administer any leasehold rights in and to
properties of the beneficiary demised to the Trustees, and to comply with the
terms and conditions of any lease providing the rights;
      (5)   To acquire by lease, purchase or otherwise, and to hold, construct,
install, equip, repair, enlarge, furnish, maintain and operate or otherwise
deal with, any and all physical properties and facilities needful or convenient
for utilization in executing or promoting the execution of the aforesaid trust
purposes or any of them, or which may be useful in securing, developing and
maintaining industry and industrial, manufacturing or other activities in the
beneficiary and territory in proximity thereto, or which may be useful in
promoting culture and education in the aforesaid area; to lease, rent, furnish,
provide, relinquish, sell or otherwise dispose of, or otherwise make provision
for, any or all of the properties and facilities either in execution of any of
the aforesaid trust purposes or in the event that any thereof shall no longer
be needful for such purposes;
      (6)   To provide funds for the costs of financing, acquiring,
constructing, installing, equipping, repairing, remodeling, improving,
extending, enlarging, maintaining, operating, administering and disposing of or
otherwise dealing with any of the aforesaid physical properties and facilities,
and for administering the trust for any or all of the aforesaid trust purposes,
and for all other charges, costs and expenses incidental thereto; and in so
doing to incur indebtedness, either unsecured or secured by any part or parts
of the trust estate or revenues thereof;
      (7)   To expend all funds coming into the hands of the Trustees, as
revenue or otherwise, in the payment of the aforesaid costs and expenses, and
in the payment of any indebtedness incurred by the Trustees for the purposes
specified herein, and in the payment of any other debt or obligation properly
chargeable against the trust estate, and to distribute the residue and
remainder of such funds to the beneficiary for the payment of all or any part
of the principal or interest of any bonded indebtedness of the beneficiary or
for any one or more authorized or proper purposes of the beneficiary as shall
be specified by the Trustees hereunder;
      (8)   Whenever the same shall be or become material, the purposes set
forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above shall be the primary objectives
of this trust, and the provisions of divisions (A)(4) through (A)(7) above
shall be deemed and construed in implementation thereof and collateral thereto.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, FACILITIES means real estate and all
privileges, benefits and appurtenances thereto, also buildings, structures,
installations, and all physical property whatsoever, and all rights, privileges
and benefits appertaining or related thereto, and shall include, but shall not
be limited to, water, sanitary sewer, electric and sanitation systems and
properties serving inhabitants of the beneficiary and territory in proximity
thereto and also airports and public buildings serving the needs of the
beneficiary or of the inhabitants thereof.
§ 5 DURATION.
   This trust shall have duration for the term of duration of the beneficiary
as hereinafter described, and until such time as the trust’s purposes shall
have been fully executed and fulfilled, or until it shall be terminated as
hereinafter provided.
§ 6 TRUST ESTATE.
   The trust estate shall consist of all money, property (real, personal or
mixed), rights, choses in action, contracts, leases, privileges, franchises,
benefits and all other things of value (whether or not above described),
presently in or hereafter coming into the hands, or under the control of the
Trustees pursuant to the provisions of this instrument or by virtue of the
Trusteeship herein described.
§ 7 THE TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Trustees of this trust, except as hereinafter provided, shall, ex
officio, be the same persons who currently shall be the acting members of the
legally-constituted governing body of the beneficiary without distinction as to
the office held; provided:
      (1)   Each undersigned Trustee shall continue as such, unless temporarily
replaced pursuant to division (D) below, until succeeded and replaced by some
other person as an officer of the beneficiary, above-designated, ex officio be
a Trustee and such other person shall have qualified as a Trustee hereunder as
provided in division (E) below;
      (2)   Each person who shall become such an above designated officer of
the beneficiary shall be entitled to qualify as, and to become, a Trustee
hereunder and to continue as such, unless temporarily replaced pursuant to
division (D) below, until succeeded and replaced by some other person as such
officer of the beneficiary and such other person shall have qualified as a
Trustee hereunder as provided in division (E) below; provided, that in the
event the number of persons constituting the governing body of the beneficiary
shall be reduced by or pursuant to applicable law, any person who shall cease
to be a member of the governing body of the beneficiary shall, forthwith, cease
to be a Trustee of this trust; and
      (3)   All of the legal rights, powers and duties of each Trustee shall
terminate when he or she shall cease to be a Trustee hereunder and all of such
legal rights, powers and duties shall devolve upon his or her successor and
successors, with full right and power of the latter to do or perform any act or
thing which his or her predecessor or any predecessor could have done or
performed.
   (B)   Each Trustee qualifying under this instrument shall continue as such
until his or her successor shall have qualified as provided in division (E)
below.
   (C)   The determination of the fact of a vacancy shall be vested exclusively
in the remaining Trustee or Trustees and his, her or their determination of
such fact shall be conclusive; and, in the event that such a vacancy shall be
determined to exist, the remaining Trustee or Trustees may fill such vacancy
pending qualification, as provided in division (E) below, of the person
entitled so to do.
   (D)   The Trustees may contract, in connection with the incurring of any
indebtedness or obligation related to the trust estate or its revenues, or any
part of either or both, that temporary Trustees, residents of the state and
approved by the county district court, or a judge of the court, may be
appointed to act in place and instead of permanent Trustees in relation to the
trust estate or any part thereof, in the event of a default in the performance
of such obligations or the payment of the principal of and interest on any debt
incurred in relation to the trust estate or any portion thereof or compliance
with the terms of any instrument securing such debt or pursuant to which such
debt be incurred. Any such contract, if made, shall provide that any such
appointment shall designate the permanent Trustee to be so temporarily
supplanted. Each such temporary Trustee so appointed shall, after he or she
shall have qualified as provided in division (E) below, supplant in all
respects the permanent Trustee so designated in relation to the trust estate or
that portion thereof for which he or she was appointed; and, during the term of
any such temporary Trustee, the permanent Trustee so supplanted shall be wholly
without authority, duty or liability of any kind in relation to the trust
estate or the portion thereof, under the terms of this instrument. All
temporary Trustees shall cease to have any power or authority upon the
termination of all defaults by which their appointments would have been
authorized, and, automatically, the permanent Trustees supplanted shall be
reinstated.
   (E)   All Trustees, and all temporary Trustees appointed hereunder, shall
qualify by written acceptance of all of the terms of this instrument, filed in
the office of the clerk of the beneficiary, and by subscribing and filing such
oaths as shall be required by law of public officers of the state.
   (F)   The acceptance of the office of Trustee of this trust shall not
constitute the Trustees hereunder, permanent or temporary, or both, to be in
partnership or association, but each shall be an individual and wholly
independent Trustee only.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any provision of this instrument which shall appear to
provide otherwise, no Trustee or Trustees shall have any power or authority to
bind or obligate any other Trustee, or the beneficiary of this trust, in his or
her or its individual capacity.
   (H)   All persons, firms, associations, Trusteeships, corporations,
municipalities, governments, and all agents, agencies and instrumentalities
thereof, contracting with any Trustee or Trustees, permanent or temporary or
both, shall take notice that all expenses and obligations, and all debts,
damages, judgments, decrees or liabilities incurred by any Trustee or Trustees,
permanent or temporary or both, and any of the foregoing incurred by any agent,
servant or employee of any such Trustee or Trustees, in the execution of the
purposes of this trust, whether arising from contract or tort, shall be solely
chargeable to, and payable out of, the trust estate. In no event shall any
Trustee, permanent or temporary, or the beneficiary of this trust, be in any
manner individually liable for any injury or damage to persons or property, or
for breach of contract or obligation, caused by, arising from, incident to or
growing out of the execution of this trust; nor shall they, or any of them, be
liable for the acts or omissions of each other or of another such Trustee;
provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to any willful or grossly
negligent breach of trust by any said Trustee.
§ 8 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TRUSTEES.
   Subject to, and in full compliance with, all requirements of law, applicable
to this trust or to the Trustees thereof:
   (A)   The Trustees, in the manner hereinafter set forth, shall do, or cause
to be done, all things which are incidental, necessary, proper or convenient to
carry fully into effect the purposes enumerated in § 4 of this instrument, with
the general authority hereby given being intended to make fully effective the
power of the Trustees under this instrument; and, to effectuate the purposes,
the Trustees are specifically authorized (but their general powers not limited
thereby, notwithstanding any specific enumeration or description), in a lawful
manner:
      (1)   To enter in and conduct and execute, apply for, purchase or
otherwise acquire franchises, property (real or personal), contracts, leases,
rights, privileges, benefits, choses in action, or other things of value, and
to pay for the same in cash, with bonds or evidence of indebtedness, or
otherwise;
      (2)   To own, hold, manage, and in any manner to convey, lease, assign,
liquidate, dispose of, compromise or realize upon, any property, contract,
franchise, lease right, privilege, benefit, chose in action or other thing of
value, and to exercise any and all power necessary or convenient with respect
to the same;
      (3)   To guarantee, acquire, hold, sell, transfer, assign, encumber,
dispose of, and deal in, the stocks, bonds, debentures, shares or evidences of
interest or indebtedness in or of any sovereignty, government, municipality,
corporation, association, Trusteeship, firm or individual, and to enter into
and perform any lawful contract in relation thereto, and to exercise all
rights, powers and privileges in relation thereto, to the same extent as a
natural person might or could do; and the foregoing shall include (without
limitation by reason of enumeration), the power and authority to guarantee or
assume, out of distributive funds of the trust, the payment of any part or all
of the principal of or interest on any bonded indebtedness of the beneficiary
during any part or all of the term of any such bonded indebtedness, and to
fully perform any such contract; or
      (4)   To enter into, make and perform contracts of every lawful kind or
character, including, but not limited to, management contracts, with any
person, firm, association, corporation, Trusteeship, municipality, government,
or sovereignty; and, without limit as to amount, to draw, make, accept,
endorse, assume, guarantee, discount, execute and issue, promissory notes,
drafts, bills of exchange, acceptances, warrants, bonds, debentures, and any
other negotiable or non-negotiable or transferable or non-transferable
instruments, obligations, and evidences of unsecured or secured indebtedness,
and if secured by mortgage, deed of trust, or otherwise, secured by all or any
part or parts of the property of the trust, and to pledge all or any part of
the income of the trust, in the same manner and to the same extent as a natural
person might or could do.
   (B)   The Trustees shall collect and receive all property, money, rents, and
income of all kinds belonging to or due the trust estate, and shall use the
same solely for the purposes, and the furtherance of the purposes, set forth in
§ 4 of this instrument, and not otherwise. Without limiting the foregoing
provisions of this division (B), none of the net earnings or income derived
from or accruing to the trust estate, nor any part of the trust estate, in any
instance beyond that necessary to pay the principal of and interest on
indebtedness incurred for purposes set forth in § 4 of this instrument and to
pay the costs and expenses of implementation of the purposes, shall inure to
the benefit of any person or entity other than the beneficiary;
   (C)   The Trustees shall take and hold title to all property at any time
belonging to the trust in the names of the Trustees or in the name of the
authority and shall have and exercise exclusively the management and control of
the same, for the use and benefit of the beneficiary, as provided herein, in
the execution of the purposes of this trust; and the right of the Trustees to
manage, control and administer the trust; and the right of the Trustees to
manage, control and administer the trust, its property, assets and business
shall be absolute and unconditional and free from any direction, control or
management by the beneficiary, or any person or persons whomsoever;
   (D)   The Trustees may employ such agents, servants and employees as they
deem necessary, proper or convenient for the execution of the purposes of this
trust, and prescribe their duties and fix their compensation;
   (E)   The Trustees may contract for the furnishing of any services or the
performance of any duties that the Trustees deem necessary, proper or
convenient to the execution of the purposes of this trust, and shall pay for
the same as they see fit to provide in such contract;
   (F)   The Trustees, by resolution, may divide the duties of the Trustees
hereunder, delegating all or any part of such duties to one or another of the
Trustees as they deem proper; but, where a specific duty is not so delegated, a
majority of the Trustees must act for the authority;
   (G)   The Trustees shall, in the name of the trust as hereinabove set forth,
or in their names as Trustees, bring any suit or action, which, in their
judgment, shall be necessary or proper to protect the interests of the trust,
or to enforce any claim, demand or contract for the trust or for the benefit of
the trust; and they shall defend, in their discretion, any action or proceeding
against the trust or the Trustees or agents, servants or employees thereof. And
the Trustees are expressly authorized, in their discretion, to bring, enter,
prosecute, or defend any action or proceeding in which the trust shall be
interested, and to compromise any such action or proceeding and discharge the
same out of the trust property and assets; and the Trustees also are expressly
authorized to pay or transfer out of the trust property or assets such money or
property as shall be required to satisfy any judgment or decree rendered
against them as Trustees, or against the trust, together with all costs,
including court costs, counsel and attorneys’ fees, and also to pay out of the
trust property and assets such sums of money, or transfer appropriate property
or assets of the trust, for the purpose of settling, compromising or adjusting
any claim, demand, controversy, action or proceedings, together with all costs
and expenses connected therewith; and all such expenditures and transfers shall
be treated as proper expenses of executing the purposes of this trust;
   (H)   No bond shall be required of the Trustees, or any of them, unless they
shall deem the same proper and shall provide therefor by resolution;
   (I)   All proceedings of the Trustees shall be taken in public meeting only,
and the Trustees shall make, or cause to be made, a written record of all of
their proceedings. All records of the trust shall be subject to inspection
during customary business hours as are public records of the beneficiary; and
   (J)   At their first meeting, the Trustees shall designate the principal
office of the trust; and they also shall designate the time and place for
regular meetings of the Trustees. The time and place of regular meetings shall
not be changed unless at a meeting where all incumbent Trustees are present. No
notice shall be required for the holding of regular meetings of the Trustees.
Special meetings may be held upon such call as shall be fixed by resolution of
the Trustees adopted at a meeting where all incumbent Trustees are present. The
Trustees shall cause to be filed, in all places where this instrument is
recorded, a certificate designating the principal office of the trust and the
time and place of regular meetings of the Trustees; and any changes therein
shall be filed for record in like manner.
§ 9 BENEFICIARY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, BENEFICIARY shall denote the
incorporated city, and likewise shall denote any municipal entity which
hereafter may succeed the incorporated city as the governing authority of the
territory lying within the municipal boundaries of the incorporated city on the
effective date of this instrument.
   (B)   (1)   The beneficiary shall have no legal claim or right to the trust
estate, or to any part thereof, against the Trustees or anyone holding under
them; neither shall the beneficiary, as such, have any authority, power or
right whatsoever to do or transact any business whatsoever for or on behalf of,
or binding upon, the Trustees or the trust estate; neither shall the
beneficiary have the right to control or direct the actions of the Trustees in
respect of the trust estate, or any part thereof; nor shall the beneficiary
have any right to demand or require any partition or distribution of the trust
estate, or any part thereof. The beneficiary shall be entitled solely to the
benefits of this trust, as administered by the Trustees hereunder, and at the
termination of the trust, as provided herein, and then only, the beneficiary
shall receive the residue of the trust estate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything in the aforesaid appearing to be to the
contrary, no provision in this instrument or of the acceptance of beneficial
interest thereunder by the governing body of the beneficiary, limiting,
restricting or denying any authority, power, or right of the beneficiary of the
trust in relation to the administration thereof is intended, or shall be
construed or interpreted, to effect a surrender, or to attempt to effect a
surrender, of any of the sovereign governmental powers of the state or of the
beneficiary; but any and all provisions of this trust instrument are intended,
and shall be applied, to relate solely and only to the proprietary rights and
property interests of the beneficiary, in trust, as distinguished from its
sovereign governmental powers and authority.
      (3)   Moreover, it further is agreed that nothing contained in this
declaration of trust or in the acceptance of beneficial interest thereunder
shall be construed, interpreted or applied as intending to grant, or to grant
to the Trustees hereunder an exclusive franchise in relation to any powers,
rights or authority of the Trustees under this trust instrument.
§ 10 TERMINATION.
   (A)   This trust shall be irrevocable by the trustor and shall terminate:
      (1)   When the purposes set forth in § 4 of this instrument shall have
been fully executed and fulfilled;
      (2)   In the event of the happening of any event or circumstance that
would prevent the purposes from being executed and fulfilled and all of the
Trustees and the governing body of the municipality having beneficial interest
hereunder, with the approval of the Governor of the state, shall agree that
such event or circumstance has taken place; provided, however, that all
indebtedness of the trust shall have been paid; or
      (3)   In the manner provided by 60 O.S. § 180; provided, however, that
this trust shall not be terminated by voluntary action if there be outstanding
indebtedness or fixed-term obligations of the Trustees, unless all owners of
such indebtedness or obligations, or someone authorized by them so to do, shall
have consented in writing to such termination.
   (B)   Upon termination of this trust, the Trustees shall proceed to wind up
the affairs of the trust, and, after payment of all debts and obligations out
of trust assets, to the extent thereof, shall distribute the residue of the
trust assets to the beneficiary hereunder as provided in § 4 of this
instrument. Upon final distribution as aforesaid, the powers, duties and
authority of the Trustees hereunder shall cease.
§ 11 PARTIAL INEFFECTIVENESS.
   (A)   The invalidity or ineffectiveness for any reason of any one or more
words, phrases, clauses, paragraphs, divisions or sections of this instrument
shall not affect the remaining portions hereof so long as such remaining
portions shall constitute a rational instrument.
   (B)   Any such invalid or ineffective portion was inserted conditionally
upon its being valid and effective only; and this instrument shall be construed
as through such invalid or ineffective portion had not been inserted herein.
§ 12 COVENANT.
   The provisions hereof shall be binding upon the undersigned, their heirs,
executors, administrators, and assigns.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands, executing this
declaration of trust in several multiple originals, all of which constitute one
and the same instrument, this 25th day of September, 1984.
   /s/ Bill Dashner    
   Trustor
/s/ Truman Williams    /s/ Eugene Brown, Jr.
 
/s/ Bill Crowdis    /s/ Lynn Latham
 
   /s/ Bobby Pollock
   Trustees
   ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
      ) SS:
COUNTY OF STEPHENS   )
   On this 25th day of September, 1984, before me, the undersigned notary
public in and for the county and state, personally appeared Bill Dashner,
Truman Williams, Eugene Brown, Bill Crowdis, Lynn Latham and Bobby Pollock to
me known to be the identical persons who executed the within and foregoing
instrument, and acknowledged to me that they executed the same as their free
and voluntary act and deed, for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
   /s/ C.A. Ridener   
   Notary Public
(Seal)
My Commission Expires:
April 6, 1985
APPENDIX 7: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
1856 2-27-  Rezoning the following described property from R3 to C2: 111 S 15th Street.
     2024
1858 3-26-  Rezoning the following described property from I3 to A1: 2414 W Bois D’Arc
     2024   Avenue.
1859 3-26-  Rezoning the following described property from R2 to C2: 1108 N 5th Street.
     2024
1860 4-23-  Rezoning the following described property from R1 to C4: 10 N E Street.
     2024
1861 7-23-  Rezoning the following described property from R1 to C4: 1521 Apollo Drive.
     2024
1866 3-25-  Rezoning the property located in the Southeast corner of the Elk Avenue and
     2025   Highway 7 Connector (Bypass) intersection from R-3 to C-4.
1867 3-25-  Rezoning the property located at 17 S 18th street from R-1 to R-2.
     2025
1868 3-25-  Rezoning the property located in the Northwest corner of the Elk Avenue and
     2025   Highway 7 Connector (Bypass) intersection from Agriculture to C-4.
     3-25-  Rezoning the property located in the Northeast corner of the Elk Avenue and
1869 2025   Highway 7 Connector (Bypass) intersection from Agriculture to a mix of C-
            4 and A-1.
1877 6-24-  Rezoning the property located at 4179 N Highway 81 from A-1 to R-2.
     2025
           
 
APPENDIX 8: MASTER SIDEWALK PLAN AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     The Department of Public Works, working with ODOT, SORTPO
1865     1-28-2025   and SWODA, amending the Master Sidewalk Plan to better
                     reflect existing and proposed developments throughout the
                     city.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cites Code Section
O.S. Cites                    Code Section
3 O.S.                        16-121
3A O.S. 200 et seq.           10-413
4 O.S.                        4-208
4 O.S. 41                     4-309
4 O.S. 47                     4-308
4 O.S. 501—508              4-203;
                              4-208
10 O.S.                       10-410
10A O.S.                      10-410
10A O.S. 2-2-102              10-410
11 O.S. 8-105                 2-504
11 O.S. 14-103 et seq.        1-106
11 O.S. 14-108                1-101
11 O.S. 14-109                1-101;
                              5-201
11 O.S. 14-111                1-108
11 O.S. 16-110                2-202
11 O.S. 16-112                7-206
                              9-101;
11 O.S. 22-106                9-201;
                              Part 16, Chapter 2
11 O.S. 22-107                9-101;
                              9-201
11 O.S. 22-108                10-413
11 O.S. 22-110                10-306;
                              10-308
11 O.S. 22-111                8-103
11 O.S. 22-112                5-803
11 O.S. 22-112.1              5-803
11 O.S. 22-118                Part 16, Chapter 2
11 O.S. 22-123                10-409
11 O.S. 26-101 et seq.        Part 11, Chapter 1
11 O.S. 27-101                6-101
11 O.S. 27-101—27-131       6-101
11 O.S. 27-102                6-101
11 O.S. 27-111                6-116
11 O.S. 27-119                1-108
11 O.S. 27-123                6-133
11 O.S. 27-124                6-133
11 O.S. 27-126                1-108
11 O.S. 28-107                13-224
11 O.S. 29-101 et seq.        Part 13, Chapter 2
11 O.S. 29-106—29-108       13-221—
                              13-225
11 O.S. 34-101 et seq.        13-301
11 O.S. 34-103                13-304
11 O.S. 35-201 et seq.        7-107
11 O.S. 43-101—43-109       12-103;
                              12-201
11 O.S. 44-101—44-110       12-201
11 O.S. 45-101—45-104       12-201
11 O.S. 45-102                12-101;
                              12-102
11 O.S. 45-104                12-440
11 O.S. 49-103 et seq.        2-710
11 O.S. 50-101 et seq.        2-701;
                              2-710
11 O.S. 50-106.3              2-701;
                              2-710
11 O.S. 50-109                2-701;
                              2-710
11 O.S. 50-110                2-701;
                              2-710
15 O.S. 511 et seq.           Part 13, Chapter 5
18 O.S. 552.1 et seq.         9-206
18 O.S. 552.1—552.16        9-206
18 O.S. 552.4                 9-206
19 O.S. 866.12                12-403
19 O.S. 866.13                12-403
21 O.S.                       4-205
21 O.S. 437                   10-606
21 O.S. 441                   10-606
21 O.S. 521                   10-606
21 O.S. 540A                  15-215
21 O.S. 641                   10-501
21 O.S. 642                   10-501
21 O.S. 644                   10-501
21 O.S. 941 et seq.           10-413
21 O.S. 1021                  10-406
21 O.S. 1272                  10-306
21 O.S. 1289.1 et seq.        10-306
21 O.S. 1364                  10-308
21 O.S. 1533                  10-608
21 O.S. 1686                  4-608
21 O.S. 1704                  10-201
21 O.S. 1706                  10-201
21 O.S. 1737                  10-206
21 O.S. 1760 et seq.          10-203
21 O.S. 1787                  10-202
22 O.S. 1108                  6-125
22 O.S. 1261 et seq.          Part 13, Chapter 5
22 O.S. 1321 et seq.          Part 13, Chapter 5
25 O.S. 301—304             11-203;
                              11-605
                              2-807;
25 O.S. 301 et seq.           2-808;
                              2-816;
                              2-1002
29 O.S. 4-119                 4-601
36 O.S. 1106                  15-226
37 O.S.                       3-107
37 O.S. 163.1 et seq.         3-201
37 O.S. 163.7                 3-203
37 O.S. 163-24                3-213
37 O.S. 213                   3-202
37 O.S. 241                   3-208
37 O.S. 243                   3-207
37 O.S. 246                   3-208
37 O.S. 501 et seq.           3-101
37 O.S. 506                   3-128
37 O.S. 518                   3-103
37 O.S. 518.3                 3-113
37 O.S. 534                   3-112
                              3-102;
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.        3-127;
                              3-129
                              3-123;
37A O.S. 1-103                3-128;
                              7-202
                              15-104;
47 O.S.                       15-309;
                              15-525
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.         15-103
47 O.S. 1-105                 15-555
47 O.S. 1-174                 Part 16, Chapter 2
47 O.S. 1-186                 15-309
47 O.S. 6-101                 15-211
47 O.S. 6-107                 15-525
47 O.S. 6-205                 15-525
47 O.S. 6-303                 15-212
47 O.S. Article VI, Chapter 7 15-226
47 O.S. 6-751 et seq.         15-525
47 O.S. 7-204                 15-226
47 O.S. 7-330                 15-226
47 O.S. 7-503                 15-226
47 O.S. 7-606                 15-226
47 O.S. 10-101 et seq.        15-104;
                              15-217
47 O.S. Chapter 11            15-1011
47 O.S. 11-104                15-206
47 O.S. 11-106                15-216
47 O.S. 11-201                15-603
47 O.S. 11-201 et seq.        15-601
47 O.S. 11-202                15-605
47 O.S. 11-204                15-607
47 O.S. 11-206                15-608
47 O.S. 11-207                15-609
47 O.S. 11-302                15-506
47 O.S. 11-303                15-504
47 O.S. 11-305                15-504
47 O.S. 11-308                15-507
47 O.S. 11-309                15-613
47 O.S. 11-310                15-508
47 O.S. 11-402                15-539
47 O.S. 11-403                15-540
47 O.S. 11-404                15-550
47 O.S. 11-405                15-216
47 O.S. 11-501—11-507       15-1001
47 O.S. 11-601                15-904
47 O.S. 11-604                15-905
47 O.S. 11-702                15-555
47 O.S. 11-704                15-552
47 O.S. 11-705                15-516
47 O.S. 11-801                15-401
47 O.S. 11-803                15-402
47 O.S. 11-804                15-401
47 O.S. 11-805                15-1214
47 O.S. 11-901                15-522
47 O.S. 11-902                15-524
47 O.S. 11-906.4              15-526
47 O.S. 11-1003               15-711
47 O.S. 11-1004               15-721
47 O.S. 11-1004(C)            15-706
47 O.S. 11-1102               15-519
47 O.S. 11-1103(B)            15-1202
47 O.S. 11-1103(C)            15-1212
47 O.S. 11-1103(D)            15-1213
47 O.S. 11-1105               15-531
47 O.S. 11-1108(a)            15-510
47 O.S. 11-1109               15-511
47 O.S. 11-1201 et seq.       15-1101
47 O.S. 12-101 et seq.        15-301
47 O.S. 12-201 et seq.        15-303
47 O.S. 12-218                15-216
47 O.S. 12-228                15-517
47 O.S. 12-301 et seq.        15-303
47 O.S. 12-401 et seq.        15-303
47 O.S. 12-402                15-305
47 O.S. 12-602                15-1208
47 O.S. 12-602.1              15-1208
47 O.S. 12-603                15-1208
47 O.S. 12-605                15-1209
47 O.S. 12-606                15-1209
47 O.S. 12-608                15-1207
47 O.S. 12-609(A)(1)          15-1206
47 O.S. 12-609(A)(2)          15-1204
47 O.S. 12-609(A)(3)          15-1210
47 O.S. 12-609(A)(4)          15-1211
47 O.S. 12-609(B)             15-1203
47 O.S. 12-609(C)             15-1205
47 O.S. 14-101 et seq.        15-306
47 O.S. 15-102                15-402;
                              15-512
47 O.S. 15-112                15-719
47 O.S. 16-103                15-208
47 O.S. 751 et seq.           15-212
47 O.S. 752                   15-526
47 O.S. 753                   15-212
47 O.S. 756                   15-526
47 O.S. 759                   15-526
47 O.S. 901 et seq.           8-411
47 O.S. 907 et seq.           8-407
47 O.S. 954A                  8-408;
                              15-1301
47 O.S. 955                   15-1301
47 O.S. 1127                  15-226
50 O.S. 1 et seq.             8-301
50 O.S. 12                    8-304
50 O.S. 14                    8-305
50 O.S. 15                    8-305
50 O.S. 16                    8-306;
                              8-308
50 O.S. 17                    8-309
51 O.S. 121 et seq.           2-601
51 O.S. 125                   2-601
51 O.S. 151 et seq.           15-528
59 O.S. 40A                   5-401
59 O.S. 495                   15-309
59 O.S. 1000.23               5-409
59 O.S. 1001 et seq.          5-301;
                              5-303
59 O.S. 1016                  5-301
59 O.S. 1017                  5-303
59 O.S. 1301—1340           6-125
59 O.S. 1332                  6-125
59 O.S. 1333                  6-125
59 O.S. 1335                  6-125
59 O.S. 1501 et seq.          9-401
59 O.S. 1624—1641           5-410
59 O.S. 1850.1 et seq.        5-601;
                              5-603
60 O.S. 171 et seq.           9-901
60 O.S. 176                   App. 6
60 O.S. 180                   App. 6
62 O.S. 517.1 et seq.         7-102
63 O.S.                       9-902
63 O.S. 1-1011                8-201;
                              8-311
63 O.S. 1-1118                8-201
63 O.S. 1-2515                9-902
63 O.S. 2-101                 10-403
                              10-402;
63 O.S. 2-101 et seq.         10-403;
                              15-524
63 O.S. 420                   8-746
63 O.S. 420—430             8-703
63 O.S. 427.1 et seq.         8-703
63 O.S. 428 et seq.           8-703
63 O.S. 683.1 et seq.         13-402;
                              13-403
63 O.S. 683.3                 13-401
63 O.S. 683.11                13-402
63 O.S. 683.17                13-404
63 O.S. 686.3                 13-405
                              7-219;
68 O.S. 205                   7-523;
                              7-614
68 O.S. 217                   7-215;
                              7-610
68 O.S. 220                   7-216;
                              7-611
68 O.S. 227                   7-217;
                              7-612
                              Part 7, Chapter 2;
                              7-204;
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.          7-208;
                              7-208—
                              7-210;
                              7-214
68 O.S. 1352                  7-202
68 O.S. 1401                  7-617
                              7-603;
                              7-604;
                              7-608;
68 O.S. 1401 et seq.          7-609;
                              7-614;
                              7-618;
                              7- 619
68 O.S. 1408                  7-608
O.S. 1601 et seq.             12-616
68 O.S. 1622                  10-304
68 O.S. 2601 et seq.          7-301;
                              7-401
68 O.S. 2701                  Part 7, Chapter 2
68 O.S. 2705                  7-206
74 O.S. 85.1 et seq.          7-106
74 O.S. 314                   13-202
74 O.S. 324.8                 5-201
75 O.S. 309—317             6-110
82 O.S. Chapter 11            5-1804
82 O.S. 1601—1618           12-614
85A O.S. Chapters 1—4       5-1705
59 O.S. 1001 et seq.          5-1801
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     12-401—
                     12-414;
                     12-420—
                     12-424;
                     12-430—
                     12-440;
                     12-450—
                     12-452;
                     12-460—
901      5-10-1977   12-463;
                     12-501—
                     12-503;
                     12-510;
                     12-512—
                     12-515;
                     12-520—
                     12-524;
                     12-530—
                     12-536
-        9-25-1984   App. 6
1448     1-25-2008   Charter, § 7-5
1517     8-11-2009   Charter, § 4-5
1518     8-11-2009   Charter, § 7-2
1519     8-11-2009   Charter, § 7-3
1520     8-11-2009   Charter, § 7-4
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1201     - -         12-350
1249     - -         3-202
-        10-1-1969   7-201
852      4-24-1973   App. 1
1116     2-3-1981    7-201
1158     1-26-1982   17-102
1162     3-9-1982    17-513
1175     8-24-1982   7-102
                     6-121;
1180     9-28-1982   6-123;
                     6-126;
                     6-127
1197     4-12-1983   7-101
1211     9-27-1983   3-205—
                     3-207
1216     2-14-1984   2-208
1222     3-27-1984   8-204—
                     8-206
1226     6-26-1984   17-103
1230     10-9-1984   13-101;
                     13-103
1241     7-9-1985    9-1001—
                     9-1004
1246     8-13-1985   17-103
1248     10-22-1985  10-308
                     12-204;
                     12-222;
1254     12-17-1985  12-231;
                     12-322;
                     12-326
1252     7-8-1986    10-407;
                     10-408
1253     7-22-1986   8-202
1258     9-23-1986   App. 2
1259     9-23-1986   3-103
1261     1-13-1987   13-110
                     12-709;
1263     1-13-1987   14-601—
                     14-610
1267     2-10-1987   2-802—
                     2-818
1274     11-24-1987  8-401—
                     8-413
                     16-101;
1276     12-8-1987   16-102;
                     16-121
1277     12-8-1987   14-401—
                     14-407
1278     1-12-1988   15-903
1285     5-10-1988   13-111
1287     7-12-1988   12-101—
                     12-103.1
                     7-201;
1288     8-12-1988   7-206;
                     7-207
1293     11-14-1989  14-102
1296     3-27-1990   12-377
1303     7-24-1990   11-302
1311     6-11-1991   12-524
1312     6-25-1991   16-122
1315     9-10-1991   10-208
1330     - -1992     2-1001—
                     2-1003
1326     3-24-1992   5-1201—
                     5-1204
1331     12-8-1992   5-1301—
                     5-1304
1333     1-26-1993   16-103—
                     16-112
                     17-301—
                     17-305;
                     17-310—
                     17-320;
                     17-325—
1335     6-22-1993   17-330;
                     17-335—
                     17-345;
                     17-350—
                     17-355;
                     17-370
                     7-201;
1348     4-12-1994   7-207;
                     7-208
1349     4-12-1994   8-508;
                     8-509
1351     6-14-1994   5-1204
1352     7-26-1994   8-522
                     12-520;
                     12-521;
1354     8-9-1994    12-532;
                     12-901—
                     12-927
1356     8-9-1994    11-501—
                     11-504
1358     8-23-1994   10-410
1361     9-13-1994   11-601—
                     11-609
                     7-201;
1363     10-11-1994  7-207;
                     7-208
1368     3-28-1995   15-711
1379     9-26-1995   15-220
1382     10-24-1995  6-129
1383     10-24-1995  5-1101—
                     5-1118
1384     11-14-1995  15-304
1387     1-30-1996   12-1001—
                     12-1019
1390     3-12-1996   10-214
1392     3-26-1996   App. 3
1394     4-23-1996   12-709
1402     7-31-1996   12-223;
                     12-228
1403     7-31-1996   12-373
1404     7-31-1996   5-601—
                     5-608
1405     7-31-1996   5-301—
                     5-309
1412     11-12-1996  9-901—
                     9-910
1413     11-26-1996  5-202
                     12-204;
1414     11-26-1996  12-222;
                     12-322;
                     12-326
                     12-204;
                     12-222;
1427     2-25-1997   12-237;
                     12-390;
                     12-393
1430     3-11-1997   7-201
1431     3-25-1997   9-203
1438     5-27-1997   12-257
1443     9-9-1997    7-201
                     12-241;
                     12-246;
                     12-257;
1452     1-13-1998   12-269;
                     12-274;
                     12-280;
                     12-321
1454     1-27-1998   10-206
1464     7-14-1998   11-101—
                     11-112
1479     2-9-1999    8-307
1481     2-23-1999   App. 1
1482     3-23-1999   2-1101
1484     4-26-1999   2-901—
                     2-907
                     12-260;
1486     6-22-1999   12-267;
                     12-272;
                     12-278
1487     6-22-1999   12-257
1491     8-24-1999   8-307
1496     1-11-2000   11-202—
                     11-209
1500     3-28-2000   1-108
1503     4-25-2000   5-801—
                     5-807
1505     6-13-2000   15-1110
1506     6-13-2000   17-102
1507     6-27-2000   16-101
1508     6-27-2000   12-246
1509     7-25-2000   12-204
                     4-101—
                     4-103;
                     4-201—
                     4-209;
                     4-301—
                     4-312;
                     4-410;
                     4-411;
                     4-421—
                     4-429;
1510     8-8-2000    4-435;
                     4-436;
                     4-440—
                     4-452;
                     4-501—
                     4-508;
                     4-601—
                     4-608;
                     4-701;
                     4-801—
                     4-808
1511     8-22-2000   12-260
1513     10-10-2000  16-101
1514     10-24-2000  5-1501—
                     5-1509
1516     12-12-2000  12-242
1517     12-12-2000  7-201
1518     1-9-2001    15-309
1519     1-9-2001    1-108
                     12-266;
                     12-271;
1523     3-13-2001   12-277;
                     12-322;
                     12-326
1524     3-27-2001   10-206
1530     7-24-2001   15-307
                     12-204;
1531     8-14-2001   12-232;
                     12-246
1537     10-23-2001  12-102
1538     10-23-2001  12-120
1543     12-11-2001  5-201
1545     2-12-2002   15-719
1546     2-12-2002   7-201
1553     8-27-2002   1-202
1556     11-12-2002  7-201
                     12-204;
1558     2-25-2003   12-210;
                     12-329—
                     12-333
                     12-204;
1559     2-25-2003   12-210;
                     12-334—
                     12-337
                     4-102;
                     4-206—
                     4-208;
                     4-308;
                     4-401—
1563     3-25-2003   4-403;
                     4-415;
                     4-420—
                     4-423;
                     4-702;
                     4-703
1564     4-22-2003   4-302
                     12-210;
1565     5-27-2003   12-343—
                     12-348
1566     5-27-2003   15-528
1590     11-23-2004  15-719
1591     11-23-2004  15-211
1592     11-23-2004  6-136
1593     11-23-2004  15-303
1595     1-25-2005   5-306
1600     5-10-2005   16-101
1601     6-14-2005   8-516
1607     9-13-2005   15-526
1610     10-25-2005  12-521;
                     12-532
1611     10-25-2005  12-928—
                     12-932
1619     2-14-2006   12-420
1625     4-11-2006   14-501—
                     14-510
1630     5-23-2006   9-909
1633     6-13-2006   12-130
1634     6-20-2006   7-601—
                     7-619
1637     9-12-2006   17-102
1639     10-24-2006  12-379
1640     10-24-2006  12-204;
                     12-390
1641     11-28-2006  7-201
1642     12-12-2006  1-108
1648     4-23-2007   2-203
1653     7-10-2007   16-202—
                     16-204
1654     8-14-2007   1-108
1657     10-9-2007   17-509
1658     10-9-2007   11-201
1659     10-23-2007  17-517
1661     10-23-2007  3-121
1662     10-23-2007  2-818
1669     10-6-2008   7-201
1673     12-9-2008   7-501—
                     7-526
1674     2-10-2009   2-207
1675     5-26-2009   13-232—
                     13-234
1677     6-23-2009   15-602
1680     10-27-2009  12-204;
                     12-441
1682     2-9-2010    12-437
1683     3-9-2010    4-301
1693     12-23-2010  7-701
1694     1-25-2011   4-301
1695     2-8-2011    4-102;
                     12-204
1697     6-28-2011   App. 2
1698     8-9-2011    12-204
                     17-302;
1700     9-13-2011   17-312;
                     17-314;
                     17-329
1701     10-11-2011  10-418
1707     2-28-2012   12-536
1712     11-12-2012  13-230
1713     12-11-2012  13-231
1716     3-12-2013   1-108
1721     1-14-2014   7-201
1724     4-22-2014   1-108
1725     7-22-2014   13-401—
                     13-405
1726     9-9-2014    17-218—
                     17-222
1729     11-11-2014  9-1201—
                     9-1204
1730     11-25-2014  2-202
1734     1-27-2015   17-221
1737     4-28-2015   5-1801—
                     5-1811
1743     10-27-2015  15-556
1744     11-10-2015  7-701
                     1-108;
1745     11-10-2015  17-360—
                     17-363;
                     17-370
1746     12-8-2015   8-101—
                     8-108
1756     8-23-2016   12-258
1757     8-23-2016   12-204
1758     9-13-2016   17-215
1759     9-13-2016   17-223
1760     9-13-2016   17-408
1762     11-8-2016   15-703
1763     1-24-2017   4-208
1766     3-14-2017   13-601—
                     13-618
1767     6-27-2017   12-1101—
                     12-1110
1768     8-22-2017   10-201
1771     11-28-2017  17-103
1775     4-10-2018   8-601—
                     8-603
1776     4-24-2018   7-105;
                     7-106
1778     5-22-2018   5-1701—
                     5-1708
1779     6-26-2018   12-266
1780     6-26-2018   12-271
1781     7-10-2018   12-601—
                     12-624
                     3-103;
1782     7-24-2018   3-117;
                     3-122—
                     3-129
1784     11-5-2018   7-201
1786     11-13-2018  10-417
1789     4-23-2019   12-378
1790     6-25-2019   6-136
1793     12-10-2019  5-201
1794     12-10-2019  5-201
1795     12-10-2019  5-201;
                     13-101
1796     12-10-2019  13-101
1799     12-10-2019  5-501
1800     12-10-2019  5-305
1801     12-10-2019  5-604
1803     12-10-2019  5-201;
                     13-101
1806     4-2-2020    13-406
1807     6-9-2020    15-1501—
                     15-1520
                     8-701—
                     8-703;
                     8-710;
1813     10-27-2020  8-711;
                     8-720—
                     8-729;
                     8-740—
                     8-748
                     1-108;
                     8-601;
1814     10-27-2020  8-602;
                     10-402;
                     10-403;
                     12-221
1819     3-23-2021   12-322
1820     5-11-2021   10-300
1826     3-8-2022    Part 5, Chapter 9
                     8-202—
1827     3-8-2022    8-206;
                     App. 3
                     4-102;
                     4-206;
                     4-207;
                     4-313;
1837     12-13-2022  4-422;
                     4-423;
                     4-436;
                     4-502;
                     4-605
1846     - -2023     7-106
1840     2-14-2023   4-302
1842     6-27-2023   10-417
1847     9-12-2023   10-208
1848     9-12-2023   1-108
1849     9-12-2023   10-601
1851     12-12-2023  1-108
1852     1-23-2024   12-390
1856     2-27-2024   App. 7
1858     3-26-2024   App. 7
1859     3-26-2024   App. 7
1860     4-23-2024   App. 7
1861     7-23-2024   App. 7
1862     10-8-2024   5-409
1863     10-8-2024   5-401—
                     5-414
1864     12-10-2024  11-605
1865     1-28-2025   App. 8
1866     3-25-2025   App. 7
1867     3-25-2025   App. 7
1868     3-25-2025   App. 7
1869     3-25-2025   App. 7
1872     4-8-2025    Adopting Ordinance
1874     4-22-2025   12-368—
                     12-375
1875     4-22-2025   3-102,
                     3-113
1877     6-24-2025   App. 7
                    
 
