ENID, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-04, passed 3-18-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-04
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ENID MUNICIPAL CODE, 2024, TITLE 2, “FINANCE AND
TAXATION” TO ADD CHAPTER 7 “ FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT OF ELECTED
OFFICIALS”, SECTION 2-7-1 “FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT” REQUIRING MEMBERS OF
THE CITY COUNCIL TO FILE WITH THE CITY CLERK SAID STATEMENT; SECTION 2-7-
3 “MATERIAL FINANCIAL INTEREST DEFINED” ; SECTION 2-7-4 “PENALTY” SETS FORTH
PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY; PROVIDING FOR REPEALER, SAVINGS CLAUSE,
SEVERABILITY AND CODIFICATION.
 
WHEREAS, The Mayor and Board of Commissioners passed an ordinance that adopted
the City’s Purchasing Manual/ Finance Procedures Manual, by ordinance that set
out financial and family related conflict of interest provisions for its
elected officials in 2002 and 2007;
 
WHEREAS, 11 O.S. 56- 103 provides that if a municipality sets out its own
financial disclosure ordinance as part of its Code, it may do so rather than
following the financial disclosure rules for state-wide elected officials;
  
Section I: That Title 2, Chapter 7 of the Enid Municipal Code, 2024, is hereby
adopted to read as follows:
 
2-7-1 PURPOSE OF FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. The purpose of financial disclosure is
to identify and disclose potential conflicts of interest of elected officials
between their public duties and their private economic interests.
 
 
2-7-2 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT. A financial disclosure statement must be
filed with the City Clerk by each member of the City Council whether elected or
appointed. It should include all material financial interests. The statement
should be submitted for the previous year by the last day of May, each year.
 
 
2-7-3 MATERIAL FINANCIAL INTEREST DEFINED.  
 
A. A material interest is defined as the six interests listed below.
   
   1. Employment by the filer, the filer’s spouse or dependent.
 
   2. An ownership interest in a private business including but not limited to,
a closely held    corporation, limited liability company, Subchapter S
corporation or partnership for which    the filer, the filer's spouse, or
dependent1 , is a director, officer, owner, manager,    employee, or agent.
3. Stock, another form of equity interest, stock options, debt instruments or
dividends of any private business, closely held corporation or limited
liability company in which the filer, the filer's spouse or dependent received
income worth Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000.00) or more at any point during
the preceding calendar year.
4. An ownership interest of five percent (5%) or more in a publicly traded
corporation or other business entity by a filer, the filer's spouse, or
dependent.
5. An ownership interest in a publicly traded corporation or other business
entity from which dividends or income, of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00)
or more, but not to include salary, were derived during the preceding calendar
year by the filer, the filer's spouse, or dependent.
6. An interest that arises as a result of the filer's, the filer's spouse, or
dependent's service as a director or officer of a publicly traded corporation
or other business entity.
B. However, a ‘material financial interest” does not include:
1. an interest in a mutual fund or other community investment vehicle in which
the filer, the filer's spouse, or dependent, exercises no control over the
acquisition or sale of particular holdings, or
2. an interest in a pension plan, 401k, individual retirement account or other
retirement investment vehicle that makes diversified investments over which the
filer, the filer's spouse or dependent exercises no control over the
acquisition or sale of particular holdings.
 
2-7-4 PENALTY.  If a member of the Council fails to file a financial disclosure
statement within sixty days of taking office, the City Clerk will send a letter
to the member reminding the member of this obligation. If the member does not
file a financial disclosure statement or explains the delay in writing, the
member, may through City Council action, be suspended from voting on contracts
and expenditures until the disclosure statement is received by the City Clerk.
 
Section II: Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent
with this
ordinance, are hereby repealed.
 
Section III: Savings Clause. Nothing in this ordinance hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceedings now pending in any court, or any
rights acquired or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes of action
accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor shall any
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
ordinance.
 
Section IV: Severability. If any one or more of the sections, sentences,
clauses or parts of this ordinance, chapter or section shall, for any reason,
be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, clause or part shall not
affect or prejudice in any way the applicability and validity of any other
provision of this ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
City Commission of the City of Enid that this section of the Enid Municipal
Code would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid
sentence, clause, section or part not been included.
 
Section V: Codification. This ordinance shall be codified as Title 2, Chapter
7, §2-7-1 through §2-7- 4 of the Enid Municipal Code, 2024.
 
   PASSED AND APPROVED by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the City of
Enid, Oklahoma on March 18, 2025.
 
CITY OF ENID, OKLAHOMA
 
/s/ David M. Mason             David M. Mason, Mayor
(SEAL)
ATTEST:
 
/s/ Summer Anderson            
Summer Anderson, City Clerk
 
 
 
Approved as to Form and Legality:
 
/s/ Mandy Schroeder            
Mandy Schroeder, Assistant City Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-09
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ENID MUNICIPAL CODE, 2024, TITLE 2, “FINANCE AND
TAXATION”, CHAPTER 6 “FEE SCHEDULE”, ARTICLE D, “PUBLIC SAFETY AND EMERGENCY
SERVICES”; SECTION 2-6D-2 “ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT” TO REMOVE REFERENCES TO SUSPENSE
ACCOUNT TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS; PROVIDING FOR
REPEALER, SAVINGS CLAUSE, SEVERABILITY AND CODIFICATION.
ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF ENID,
OKLAHOMA:
Section I: That Title 2, Chapter 6, Section 2-6D-2 of the Enid Municipal Code,
2024, is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 2-6D-2 ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT.
(A)   Livestock impoundment fees. The fees provided in § 5-7-3 shall be as
follows:
 
 
Domesticated fowl, other small animals $5 for each animal, plus $5 each day the
and reptiles                           animal is impounded
Goat, sheep or pig                     $25 for each animal, plus $10 each day
                                       the animal is impounded
Horse, cow or mule                     $25 for each animal, plus $15 each day
                                       the animal is impounded
   (B)   Dog, cat, ferret or potbellied pig fees. The fees required by Title 5,
Chapter 7 shall be as follows:
Adoption of any previously sterilized   Actual cost of rabies vaccine and
dog or cat                              license fee
Adoption of any sterilized dog or cat   Actual cost of rabies vaccine and
                                        license fee
Adoption of any unsterilized dog or cat Amount of rabies vaccine and spaying
                                        and/or neutering
Adoption of any unsterilized potbellied Amount of spaying and/or neutering of
pig                                     pig
Adoption of potbellied pig on special   $25
adoption day
Cost of rabies vaccine for any owner
not showing proof of current rabies     Actual cost of the rabies vaccine
vaccine
Dead dog, cat or other small animal     $10 per animal
pick up
Impoundment for rabies observation and  $400
boarding fee for required period
Inspection fee for premises for         $50 per inspection
dangerous dog
License fee for any dog or cat          $5 per calendar year (to be put in dog/
                                        cat suspense account)
License fee for dangerous dog (in       $10 per calendar year (to be put in
addition to regular license fee)        dog/cat suspense account)
Rabies postmortem examination           Actual cost of veterinarian examination
Redeemed by owner or keeper             $15 impoundment fee, plus $5 boarding
                                        fee for each day of impoundment
 
Section II: Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent
with this ordinance, are hereby repealed.
Section III: Savings Clause. Nothing in this ordinance hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceedings now pending in any court, or any
rights acquired or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes of action
accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor shall any
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
ordinance.
 
Section IV: Severability. If any one or more of the sections, sentences,
clauses or parts of this ordinance, chapter or section shall, for any reason,
be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, clause or part shall not
affect or prejudice in any way the applicability and validity of any other
provision of this ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
City Commission of the City of Enid that this section of the Enid Municipal
Code would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid
sentence, clause, section or part not been included.
 
Section V: Codification. This ordinance shall be codified as Title 2, Chapter
6, Article D, §2-6D-2 of the Enid Municipal Code, 2024.
 
This Ordinance was passed and approved by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners
of the City of Enid, Oklahoma, on July 15, 2025.
 
CITY OF ENID, OKLAHOMA
 
/s/ David M. Mason         
David M. Mason, Mayor
(SEAL)
ATTEST:
/s/ Summer Anderson         
Summer Anderson, City Clerk
 
Approved as to Form and Legality:
 
/s/ Melissa Blanton         
Melissa Blanton, City Attorney
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-10
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ENID MUNICIPAL CODE, 2024, TITLE 6, “MOTOR VEHICLES
AND TRAFFIC”; CHAPTER 6 “PARKING REGULATIONS” TO ADD SECTION 6-6-20 “UNATTENDED
CHILDREN OR VULNERABLE ADULTS LEFT IN VEHICLES” TO INCLUDE DEFINITIONS, PENALTY
AND IMMUNITY; PROVIDING FOR REPEALER; SAVINGS CLAUSE; SEVERABILITY; STATE LAW
REFERENCES; AND CODIFICATION.
ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF ENID,
OKLAHOMA:
 
Section I: That Enid Municipal Code 2024, is amended to add §6-6-20 to Title 6,
Chapter 6, to read as follows:
§6-7-15   UNATTENDED CHILD OR VULNERABLE ADULT LEFT IN MOTOR          VEHICLE
A.    DEFINITIONS: the following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meaning ascribed to them as defined below, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
MENTALLY INCOMPETENT. any person who has been adjudicated mentally or legally
incompetent by an appropriate district court
 
PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR A CHILD. a custodial parent or legal guardian of a
child, or a person who has been directed authorized to supervise a child by
that child’s custodial parent or legal guardian;
 
UNATTENDED. beyond a person’s direct ability to care for or come to the aid of
the unaccompanied person; and
 
VULNERABLE ADULT. an individual who is an incapacitated person or who, because
of physical or mental disability, including persons with Alzheimer's disease or
other dementias, incapacity, or other disability, is substantially impaired in
the ability to provide adequately for the care or custody of himself or
herself, or is unable to manage his or her property and financial affairs
effectively, or to meet essential requirements for mental or physical health or
safety, or to protect himself or herself from abuse, verbal abuse, neglect, or
exploitation without assistance from others.
 
B.   OFFENCE.    A person responsible for a child who is six years of age or
younger, or a caretaker of a vulnerable adult, shall not leave that child or
vulnerable adult unattended in a motor vehicle if the conditions, including,
but not limited to, extreme weather, inadequate ventilation, or hazardous or
malfunctioning components within the vehicle, present a risk to the health or
safety of the unattended child or vulnerable adult.
 
1. It shall not be considered a violation of this section if the child or
vulnerable adult is accompanied in the motor vehicle by a person at least
twelve years of age who is not mentally incompetent.
 
2. Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of an offense and shall be punished by:
 
a.   A fine of not less than Fifty Dollars upon a first conviction;
 
b.   A fine of not less than One Hundred Dollars and 50 hours of community
service upon a second conviction; and
 
c.   A fine of not less than Two Hundred Dollars upon a third or subsequent
conviction, and the Court Clerk’s office shall submit the record of that
person's convictions of this offence to the Department of Human Services for
evaluation.
 
    3. However, any person convicted of violating the provisions of this
section who has left a child or vulnerable adult unattended in a motor vehicle
on the premises of any establishment which holds any license for the sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises pursuant to Section 2-110
of Title 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes, and who has consumed any alcoholic
beverage during the period of time the child or vulnerable adult has been
unattended, shall be punished by a fine of not less than Five Hundred Dollars.
 
C. IMMUNITY FOR REMOVING CHILD FROM MOTOR VEHICLE. A person shall be immune
from civil liability for any damage resulting from the forcible entry of a
motor vehicle for the purpose of removing a child from the motor vehicle if the
person:
   a.    determines the motor vehicle is locked or there is otherwise no
reasonable method    for the child to exit the motor vehicle;
   b.    has a good-faith belief that forcible entry into the motor vehicle is
necessary    because the child is in imminent danger of suffering harm if not
immediately removed    from the motor vehicle and, based upon the circumstances
known to the person at    the    time, the belief is a reasonable one;
   c.    has contacted the local law enforcement agency, the fire department or
the 911    emergency telephone service prior to forcibly entering the motor
vehicle;
   d.    places a notice on the motor vehicle windshield with the person's
contact    information, the reason the entry was made, the location of the
child and that the    authorities have been notified;
   e. remains with the child in a safe location, out of the elements but
reasonably close to the    motor vehicle, until law enforcement, fire or other
emergency responder arrives; and
   f. used no more force to enter the motor vehicle and remove the child from
the motor vehicle than is necessary under the circumstances.
Section II. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent
with this ordinance, are hereby repealed.
 
Section III: Savings Clause. Nothing in this ordinance hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceedings now pending in any court, or any
rights acquired or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes of action
accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor shall any
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
ordinance.
 
Section IV: Severability. If any one or more of the sections, sentences,
clauses or parts of this ordinance, chapter or section shall, for any reason,
be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, clause or part shall not
affect or prejudice in any way the applicability and validity of any other
provision of this ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
City Commission of the City of Enid that this section of the Enid Municipal
Code would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid
sentence, clause, section or part not been included.
 
Section V: State Law Reference: 47 O.S. §11-1119 -1120; 43A O.S. §10-103.5; 43A
O.S. §1-103.12 and 37A O.S. §2-110.
 
Section VI: Codification. This ordinance shall be codified as Title 6, Chapter
7, Section 15 of the Enid Municipal Code, 2024.
 
   PASSED AND APPROVED by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the City of
Enid, Oklahoma, on its meeting of August 5, 2025.
 
 
 
CITY OF ENID, OKLAHOMA
 
 /s/ David M. Mason         
David M. Mason, Mayor
(SEAL)    
 
ATTEST:
/s/ Summer Anderson            
Summer Anderson, City Clerk
 
Approved as to Form and Legality:
 
/s/ Melissa Blanton            
Melissa Blanton, City Attorney
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-11
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ENID MUNICIPAL CODE, 2024, TITLE 6 “MOTOR VEHICLES
AND TRAFFIC”, CHAPTER 1 “GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS”, SECTION 6-1-
2 “DEFINITIONS” TO INCLUDE A DEFINITION OF TWO-WAY LEFT-TURN LANES; AND CHAPTER
4 “OVERTAKING AND PASSING REGULATIONS”, SECTION 6-4-8 “DRIVING ON ROADWAYS
LANED FOR TRAFFIC” TO INCLUDE THE USE OF TWO-WAY LEFT-TURN LANES; PROVIDING FOR
REPEALER, SAVINGS CLAUSE, SEVERABILITY; STATE LAW REFERENCES; AND CODIFICATION.
ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF ENID,
OKLAHOMA:
Section I:   The Enid Municipal Code 2024, §6-1-2 “DEFINITIONS” is amended to
add in alphabetical sequence the following definition:
 
TWO-WAY LEFT-TURN LANES.  A lane near the center of the highway set aside for
use by vehicles making left turns in both directions from or into the roadway.
Two-way left-turn lanes shall be designated by distinctive roadway markings
consisting of parallel double yellow lines, interior line dashed and exterior
line solid, on each side of the lane.
 
Section II: The Enid Municipal Code, 2024, § 6-4-8 is amended to read as
follows:
§6-4-8 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for
traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent herewith,
shall apply.
(A) Changing lanes. A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely
within a single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has
first ascertained that the movement can be made with safety, and then given a
signal, not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle, of his
intention to change lanes.
(B) Use of center lane. Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a
vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane, except when overtaking and
passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center
lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left
turn or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic
moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give
notice of such allocation.
(C) A vehicle shall not be driven in a designated two-way left-turn lane except
when preparing for or making a left turn from or into a roadway. Vehicles
turning left from the roadway shall not be driven in the two-way left-turn lane
for more than two hundred feet while preparing for and making the turn. A
vehicle turning left onto the roadway may utilize the two-way left-turn lane as
a staging area by stopping and waiting for traffic proceeding in the same
direction to clear before merging into the adjacent lanes of travel. A left
turn shall not be made from any other lane where a two-way left-turn lane has
been designated. Provided, however, this section shall not prohibit driving
across a two-way left-turn lane when moving from a service drive onto such
marked roadway.
(C D) Slow moving vehicles, use of right lane. Upon a roadway which is divided
into four or more lanes, a vehicle proceeding at less than the maximum posted
speed, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation, shall not
impede the normal flow of traffic by driving in the left lane. Such vehicle
shall be driven in the right-hand lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left
turn at an intersection or into a private road or driveway.
(D E) Posting signs; compliance required. Official signs may be erected
directing slow moving traffic to use a designated lane or designating those
lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the
center of the roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of
every such sign.
(E F) Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision or
injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus
costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury to
either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
Section III: Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent
with this ordinance, are hereby repealed.
Section IV: Savings Clause. Nothing in this ordinance hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceedings now pending in any court, or any
rights acquired or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes of action
accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor shall any
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
ordinance.
Section V: Severability. If any one or more of the sections, sentences, clauses
or parts of this ordinance, chapter or section shall, for any reason, be held
invalid, the invalidity of such section, clause or part shall not affect or
prejudice in any way the applicability and validity of any other provision of
this ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City
Commission of the City of Enid that this section of the Enid Municipal Code
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence,
clause, section or part not been included.
Section VI: State Law Reference: 47 O.S. §11-309.
Section VII: Codification. This ordinance shall be codified as §6-1-2 and §6-4-
8 of the Enid Municipal Code, 2024.
 
This Ordinance was passed and approved by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners
of the City of Enid, Oklahoma, at the meeting held on August 5, 2025.
 
CITY OF ENID, OKLAHOMA
/s/ David M. Mason         
David M. Mason, Mayor
(SEAL)
ATTEST:
/s/ Summer Anderson         
Summer Anderson, City Clerk
 
 
 
Approved as to Form and Legality:
/s/ Melissa Blanton         
Melissa Blanton, City Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-05
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ENID MUNICIPAL CODE, 2024, TITLE 2, “FINANCE AND
TAXATION”, CHAPTER 6 “FEE SCHEDULE”, ARTICLE C, “CITY SERVICES AND FACILITIES”;
SECTION 2-6C-1 “ENID WOODRING REGIONAL AIRPORT” TO INCREASE HANGAR AND LAND
LEASE RATES; PROVIDING FOR REPEALER, SAVINGS CLAUSE, SEVERABILITY AND
CODIFICATION.
ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF ENID,
OKLAHOMA:
Section I: That Title 2, Chapter 6, Section 2-6C-1 of the Enid Municipal Code,
2024, is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 2-6C-1 ENID WOODRING REGIONAL AIRPORT.
   (A)   Airport landing fees. The landing fee referred to in § 7-4-2 shall be
$0.35 per 1,000 pounds of gross certified weight per scheduled landing. The
penalty fee referred to in such section shall be $10.
   (B)   Airport hangar rental. Subject to adjustment as hereinafter provided,
rental rates are established as listed below.
      (1)   Hangars. Unless negotiated for and contracted otherwise, the
following hangar rates shall apply.
         (a)   T-hangars in the 17 and 22 series shall be $0.15 $0.16 per
square foot per month.
         (b)   T-hangars in the 32 series shall be $0.17 $0.18 per square foot
per month.
         (c)   T-hangars in the 45 series shall be $0.12 per square foot per
month.
         (d)   T-hangars in the 46 series shall be $0.22 per square foot per
month.
         (e) T-hangars in the 401 series shall be $0.24 per square foot per
month.
         (f) Corporate hangars 26, 27, 28, 34, & 35 shall be $0.17 per square
foot per month.
         (g) Corporate hangars 36, 37, 38, 39, 44, 307, & 308 shall be $0.18
per square foot per month.
         (e h) All other hangars shall be $0.17 per square foot per month.
      (2)   Ground rental. Unless negotiated for and contracted otherwise,
ground rental rates shall be $0.17 $0.19 per square foot per year.
      (3)   Adjustment of rental. The Aviation Advisory Board shall annually
consider increasing or decreasing such rental based on a comparison of the fair
market value of other general aviation airports of like size within the
surrounding geographical area. In the event that the Board recommends a change
in the rental, such increases or decreases must first be approved by the City
Council. Adjustments shall become effective on January 1 of the next calendar
year, unless otherwise negotiated by the Director of Aviation.
      (4)   Delinquent accounts. All fees made for any service, lease rental
payments, supplies, fuel or any other charge made by the City at the airport,
if not paid within 30 days of billing, shall be subject to an additional
monthly charge of one and one-half percent (1½%) interest on the unpaid
balance.
      (5)   Negotiate rate. Should the City find good cause, it may negotiate
and contract for a higher or lower rate. Such good cause shall include, but not
be limited to, economic development and in-kind exchange.
   (C)   Airport ramp fee. The ramp fee referred to in § 7-4-4 shall be $100.
If the ramp fee is not paid pursuant to § 7-4-4, there shall be a penalty fee
of $10.
Section II: Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent
with this ordinance, are hereby repealed.
Section III: Savings Clause. Nothing in this ordinance hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceedings now pending in any court, or any
rights acquired or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes of action
accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor shall any
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
ordinance.
 
Section IV: Severability. If any one or more of the sections, sentences,
clauses or parts of this ordinance, chapter or section shall, for any reason,
be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, clause or part shall not
affect or prejudice in any way the applicability and validity of any other
provision of this ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
City Commission of the City of Enid that this section of the Enid Municipal
Code would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid
sentence, clause, section or part not been included.
 
Section V: Codification. This ordinance shall be codified as Title 2, Chapter
6, Article C, §2-6C-1 of the Enid Municipal Code, 2024.
 
This Ordinance was passed and approved by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners
of the City of Enid, Oklahoma, on May 5, 2025.
 
CITY OF ENID, OKLAHOMA
/s/ David M. Mason         
David M. Mason, Mayor
(SEAL)
 
ATTEST:
/s/ Summer Anderson         
Summer Anderson, City Clerk
Approved as to Form and Legality:
 
/s/ Carol Lahman         
Carol Lahman, City Attorney
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-12
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ENID MUNICIPAL CODE 2024, TITLE 13 “FLOOD CONTROL”,
CHAPTER 1 “FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION” SECTION 13-1-6 “PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD
REDUCTION”; PROVIDING FOR REPEALER, SAVINGS CLAUSE, SEVERABILITY, CODIFICATION
AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
 
ORDINANCE
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF ENID,
OKLAHOMA:
 
Section I:    That Title 13, Chapter 1, Sections 13-1-6 is hereby amended to
read as follows:
13-1-6: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION  
A.    General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards, SFHA, the
following provisions    are required for all new construction and substantial
improvements:
1.    All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
2.    All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
3.    All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
4.    All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with the electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning,
equipment and other service facilities must be that are designed and/or located
at least one foot above the base flood elevation so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
5.    All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the water supply system;
6.    New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge from the
systems into floodwaters; and
7.    On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
B.    Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are    required:
1.    Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement of
any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basements)
elevated at a minimum of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and all
mechanical systems and electrical equipment must be located a minimum of one
foot above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer,
architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the floodplain
administrator that the standard of this subsection is satisfied. This does not
apply for ramps, stairs or other access improvements.
2.    Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at a minimum
of one foot (1') above the base flood level or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below and one foot (1') above the
base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or
review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and
shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. The
floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all flood proofing
certifications that includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which each structure has been flood proofed.
3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
a.    A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
b.    The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above
grade; and
c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings
or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
4.    Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
anywhere within the city of Enid within zones A and AE on the Garfield County
FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage
and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation. Additionally, all mechanical systems and electrical equipment must
be placed at least one foot above the base flood elevation. For the purposes of
this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to Oklahoma state
law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the floodplain
administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
5.    Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites
within zones A and AE on the Garfield County FIRM either:
a.    Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days,
b.    Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
c.   Meet the permit requirements of subsection 13-1-5C of this chapter, and
the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in subsection
B4 of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or has a jacking system, and  is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
6.    Accessory Structure: Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
zones A and AE on the Garfield County FIRM shall comply with the following:
a.    The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
b.    The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
c.    The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
d.    Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated one foot (1') above the BFE;
e.    The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as
to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
f.    The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential and
constructed with flood resistance materials;
g.    The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement;
h.    Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the structure;
i.    Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be provided
below the BFE; and
j.    The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to adjacent and
nearby structures.
7.      Fences: All fences (other than minor maintenance of an existing fence)
within a regulated floodplain will require a Development Permit, that is
consistent with following guidelines set by the Floodplain Administrator.
C.    Standards for Subdivisions:
   1.    The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
zones A          and AE which is fifty (50) or more lots or greater than five
(5) acres shall          generate the base flood elevation data for that
subdivision.
2.    All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
3.    All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
D.    Floodways: The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
1.    Encroachments, including, but not limited to, fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the city of Enid during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
2.    If subsection D1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
3.    The city of Enid may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway
that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the
applicant for
 
Section II: Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof, which are inconsistent
with this ordinance, are hereby repealed.
 
Section III: Savings Clause. Nothing in this ordinance hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceedings now pending in any court, or any
rights acquired or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes of action
accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor shall any
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
ordinance.
 
Section IV: Severability. If any one or more of the sections, sentences,
clauses or parts of this ordinance, chapter or section shall, for any reason,
be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, clause or part shall not
affect or prejudice in any way the applicability and validity of any other
provision of this ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
City Commission of the City of Enid that this section of the Enid Municipal
Code would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid
sentence, clause, section or part not been included.
 
Section V: Codification. This ordinance shall be codified as Title 13, Chapter
1, Section 13-1-6 of the Enid Municipal Code, 2024.
 
PASSED AND APPROVED by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the City of
Enid, Oklahoma, on this August 19, 2025.
 
CITY OF ENID, OKLAHOMA
 
/s/ David M. Mason            
David M. Mason, Mayor
 
(SEAL)
ATTEST:
 
/s/ Summer Anderson            
Summer Anderson, City Clerk
 
 
Approved as to Form and Legality:
 
/s/ Melissa Blanton            
Melissa Blanton, City Attorney
 
 
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ENID
Adopted 1909, as amended
Part A. Basic Charter
   
Preamble
   
Art. I.   In General, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. II.   (Reserved), §§ 1—9
   
Art. III.   Powers Generally, §§ 1—40
   
Art. IV.   Board Of Commissioners, §§ 1—13
   
Art. V.   Finance, §§ 1—11
   
Art. VI.   Police Court, §§ 1—6
   
Art. VII.   Elections, §§ 1—7
   
Art. VIII.   General Provisions, §§ 1—31
   [
Art. IX.]   Schedule
 
Part B. Fire Department Civil Service Amendment
   
Art. I.   Commission, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. II.   Organization Of Fire Department, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. III.   Eligibility For Service, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. IV.   Application For Admission To Service, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. V.   Examinations, §§ 1—14
   
Art. VI.   Register Of Eligibles, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. VII.   Filling Vacancies, §§ 1—10
   
Art. VIII.   Promotions, §§ 1—7
   
Art. IX.   Removal From Service, §§ 1—5
   
Art. X.   General Provisions, §§ 1—8
   
Art. XI.   Appeals, § 1
 
Part C. Amendment No. 6
Police Department Civil Service Amendment
   
Art. I.   Commission, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. II.   Organization Of Police Department, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. III.   Eligibility For Service, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. IV.   Application For Admission To Service, § 1
   
Art. V.   Examination, §§ 1—14
   
Art. VI.   Register Of Eligibles, §§ 1, 2
   
Art. VII.   Filling Vacancies, §§ 1—10
   
Art. VIII.   Promotions, §§ 1—7
   
Art. IX.   Removal From Service, §§ 1—6
   
Art. X.   General Provisions, §§ 1—8
   
Art. XI.   Appeals, § 1
 
Part D. Amendment No. 7
City Manager Form of Government
   
Art. I.   Officers, §§ 1—20
   
Art. II.   Elections, §§ 1—9
   
Art. III.   Repeal Of Charter Provisions, §§ 1, 2
 
Part E. Union Organization and Collective Bargaining
   
Art. I.   Union Organization And Collective Bargaining For Certain Employees §§
1—3
 
[Editor’s Note:
   The Charter of the City of Enid was framed by freeholders elected on April
27, 1909, adopted by the city at an election held on September 27, 1909,
approved by the governor of the State of Oklahoma on October 2, 1909; it became
effective on December 20, 1909. Such charter is printed herein as part A.
Certain amendments to the charter, which did not amend specific sections of the
charter, are printed as separate parts. In the preparation of the charter laws,
article and section catchlines have been editorially supplied. Text within
brackets has been added by the editor.]
PART A. BASIC CHARTER
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of Enid, Garfield County, Oklahoma, under the
authority of the Constitution of the State of Oklahoma, do ordain and establish
this Charter for the City of Enid.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ A.1.1. Organization And Name.
   That the inhabitants of the City of Enid, Garfield County, Oklahoma, within
the boundaries hereinafter described and such additional territory as may be
hereafter added thereto, and their successors be and are hereby created and
organized a Municipal Corporation, with perpetual succession, under the style
and name of “The City of Enid”, and as such, they and their successors are by
these present organized and created a body politic and corporate, and shall
succeed to, own, possess and control all the books, records, documents, and all
the property, real, personal or mixed, and all the rights, privileges,
franchises, powers and immunities now belonging to and possessed or enjoyed by
the municipal corporation known as “The City of Enid”; that it shall be subject
to and liable for all legal debts, liabilities, judgments, bonds, notes and
other legal obligations for which the present corporation is now or may
hereafter become legally bound; that the corporation hereby created and its
successors, in said corporate name of “The City of Enid,” shall have power to
sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, complain, intervene, prosecute and
defend in all courts; and shall have power to make contracts, to take and
acquire property, by purchase or otherwise, necessary for the public good, and
to own, hold, sell, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of any real or personal
property within or outside of the city limits; that it shall have, exercise and
enjoy other and additional powers, rights, privileges, franchises and
immunities as are granted by existing laws or may be granted and conferred by
any other provision hereinafter adopted; that it shall use a corporate seal of
such design as the elective officers hereinafter provided may designate.
§ A.1.2. Boundaries.
   The boundaries and limits of the City of Enid are hereby established, and
are the same as are now prescribed and defined in Ordinance Number 603, as
passed by the Mayor and City Council, together with such additional territory
as may be hereafter annexed.
ARTICLE II. (RESERVED)
§ A.2.1.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.2.2.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.2.3.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.2.4.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.2.5.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.2.6.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor January 4, 1947.]
§ A.2.7.
   [Repealed by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913.]
§ A.2.8.
   [Repealed by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913.]
§ A.2.9.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
ARTICLE III. POWERS GENERALLY
§ A.3.1. Police Department.
   The City of Enid shall have power, by ordinance duly passed, to establish
and maintain a city police department, prescribe the duties of policemen, and
regulate their conduct.
§ A.3.2. Regulation Of Amusements.
   To permit, forbid or regulate theatres, balls, dance houses and other public
amusements, and to suppress the same whenever the preservation of order,
tranquility, public safety or good morals may demand.
§ A.3.3. Regulation Of Intoxicating Liquors.
   To prohibit dram shops, drinking saloons and other places where intoxicating
liquors are sold, and to close variety theatres when necessary, expedient or
advisable.
§ A.3.4. Prohibit Bawdy Houses, Etc.
   To prohibit and punish keepers and inmates of bawdy houses and variety
shows; to prevent and suppress assignation houses and houses of ill fame, to
determine such inmates and keepers to be vagrants and to provide for the
punishment of such persons.
§ A.3.5. Regulate Weights And Measures.
   To inspect weights and measures, fix standards of weight and measures, and
to fix the penalties for not using or conforming to the same, and to provide
that inspection fees may be fixed by ordinance.
§ A.3.6. Regulation Of Taverns, Public Transportation, Etc.
   To make all needful and proper regulations concerning keepers of taverns and
other public houses, draymen, horse drivers, omnibus drivers, hack drivers, and
drivers of baggage wagons and vehicles; to establish maximum rates for all
kinds of transportation within the city limits, to prevent extortion, and to
preserve order and prevent noises and confusion in and about the several depots
on the arrival and departure of railway trains, and to provide how and where
hacks and other carriers shall stand or take their positions upon the streets
adjacent or near to said depots, and where they shall stand when receiving or
discharging passengers.
§ A.3.7. Prohibit Gambling.
   To suppress gambling houses, and to punish keepers of gambling houses and
poolrooms, and all persons who play cards or games of chance of any kind, and
to punish persons who sell lottery tickets or who advertise lottery drawings or
schemes and results of drawing of lotteries.
§ A.3.8. Inspect Dairy Products.
   To provide for the inspection of milk, cream, butter and all dairy products
offered for sale, in the City of Enid, and to prescribe the fees to be charged
therefor.
§ A.3.9. Establish And Regulate Public Grounds; Regulation Of Livestock At
Large.
   To establish and regulate public grounds and regulate and restrain and
prohibit the running at large of horses, mules, asses, cattle, sheep, goats,
swine, geese, ducks, chickens and pigeons, and the distraining, impounding and
sale of the same for the cost of the proceedings and the penalty incurred, and
to order their destruction when they cannot be sold, and to impose penalties
upon the owners thereof for the violation of any ordinance regulating or
prohibiting the same.
§ A.3.10. Regulate Dogs.
   To tax, restrain or regulate and prohibit the running at large of dogs, and
to authorize their destruction when at large contrary to ordinances, and to
impose penalties upon the owners or keepers thereof.
§ A.3.11. Regulation Of Hoops, Kites, Bicycles, Etc.
   To prohibit or regulate the rolling of hoops, the flying of kites and the
firing of firecrackers, and use of velocipedes and bicycles, and the use of any
other amusement or practices tending to annoy persons passing upon the streets
or sidewalks, or to frighten horses or teams.
§ A.3.12. Regulate Blowing Of Whistles, Etc.
   To restrain and prohibit the blowing of whistles, horns, crying of goods,
and all other practices and performances tending to the collection of persons
in the streets or sidewalks by auctioneers and others for the purpose of
business, amusement or otherwise.
§ A.3.13. Regulate Solicitation Of Alms.
   To regulate or prohibit mendicants, beggars, or other persons from
soliciting alms, help or other assistance upon the streets or sidewalks of said
city, and prescribe a penalty by fine for a nonobservance thereof.
§ A.3.14. Regulation Of Speed Of Trains.
   To prohibit and regulate the speed of railroad engines or locomotives within
the city limits.
[Editor’s Note:
   Federal regulation currently preempts municipal regulation of train speeds.]
§ A.3.15. Prevention Of Trespasses, Breachers Of Peace, Etc.
   To prevent all trespasses and breaches of the peace and good order, assault
and batteries, fighting, quarreling, using abusive, profane or insulting
language, misdemeanor and all disorderly conduct and to punish all persons thus
offending.
§ A.3.16. Prohibit Immoral Shows.
   To prevent and punish the keepers of houses in which loud and immoral
theatrical representations are given, and to adopt summary measures for the
removal or suppression of all such theatrical representations.
§ A.3.17. Require Safe Railroad Tracks.
   To require all steam or street railway companies owning tracks within the
city limits, upon the public streets or highways of said city, to keep their
tracks in a safe condition, and to provide penalties for the nonperformance
thereof.
[Editor’s Note:
   Federal regulation currently preempts municipal regulation of train tracks.]
§ A.3.18. Prohibit Horse Racing.
   To prohibit, prevent and suppress horse racing, immoderate riding or driving
in the streets of said city.
§ A.3.19. Prevent Cruelty To Animals.
   To prevent cruel treatment of animals and to punish the abusers of animals.
§ A.3.20. Require Hitching Of Animals.
   To compel persons to fasten their horses or other animals attached to
vehicles, or otherwise hitched, or standing in the street.
§ A.3.21. Restrain Vagrants, Beggars And Prostitutes.
   To restrain and punish vagrants, mendicants, beggars and prostitutes.
§ A.3.22. Regulate Dangerous Drugs.
   To regulate and control the sale, gift, barter or exchange of cocaine,
opium, morphine and the salts thereof.
§ A.3.23. License, Tax And Regulate--Businesses Generally.
   To license, tax and regulate merchants, commission merchants, hotel and inn
keepers, brokers, money brokers, real estate agents, insurance agents,
insurance brokers, auctioneers, and all other trades, professions, occupations
and callings of every kind.
§ A.3.24. Same--Miscellaneous Businesses And Amusements.
   To license, tax, regulate, prevent or suppress paupers, peddlers, secondhand
dealers, pawnbrokers, and dealers in junk, and keepers of theatrical or other
shows and amusements. To license, tax and regulate theatres, circuses, moving
picture shows and shows of any kind, and the exhibition of natural or
artificial curiosities, menageries and musical exhibitions, and performances,
and to regulate and license or prohibit street parades, pool tables, slot
machines, striking machines, lung testers, doll racks, cane racks.
§ A.3.25. Prohibit Boxing Or Animal Fights.
   To prevent all boxing matches, sparring exhibitions, cock fighting and dog
fighting and punish all persons thus offending.
§ A.3.26. Regulate Or Prohibit Carrying Of Weapons.
   To regulate, control and prohibit the carrying of firearms and other weapons
within the city limits, and to provide and inflict the same punishment therefor
as is now or may hereafter be provided by state law against persons unlawfully
carrying weapons.
§ A.3.27. Provide For Workhouses, Etc., Unable To Pay Fines.
   To provide workhouses for vagrants, vagabonds and disorderly persons who are
unable or refuse to pay fines, or who have been sentenced to fine and
imprisonment or to compel them to work on the streets, alleys and public works,
and make all necessary regulations concerning the same, and to provide, keep
and regulate a city prison.
§ A.3.28. Define And Abate Nuisances.
   To define what shall be nuisances in the city, and within three thousand
feet (3,000’) of the corporation lines outside of the city limits and to abate
such nuisances by summary proceedings, and to punish the authors thereof by
penalties, fines and imprisonment.
§ A.3.29. Regulate Construction.
   To regulate and prevent dangerous construction and conditions of chimneys,
fireplaces, hearths, stoves, stove pipes, boilers, and other heating apparatus
and to cause the same to be made safe.
§ A.3.30. Regulate Traffic.
   To regulate the use of automobiles, motorcars, motorcycles or any motor
vehicles, and the speed thereof; to prescribe the proper lighting of same when
used at night; to issue permits for use of such vehicles and to require the
numbering of such vehicles.
§ A.3.31. Regulate Steam Engines And Boilers.
   To control and regulate the location and use of all kinds of steam engines
and steam boilers in the city; and prescribe the qualifications of persons
operating and running the same, and to adopt such rules and regulations in
relation thereto as may be seen best for the public safety and comfort.
§ A.3.32. Regulate Construction And Erection Of Poles.
   To inspect the construction of all buildings in the city and to prescribe
and enforce proper regulations in regard thereto; to regulate and locate or
prohibit the erection of all poles in the city, and cause the same to be
charged, whether telegraph, telephone, electric light or otherwise.
§ A.3.33. Establish City Prison.
   The city shall have power to establish, maintain and regulate a city prison,
or city prisons, workhouses, and other means of punishment for vagrants,
persons convicted of misdemeanors of the city and disorderly persons, houses of
correction and reformatories for youthful criminals.
§ A.3.34. Penalty For Ordinance Violations.
   The City of Enid shall have power to enforce the bylaws and ordinances of
the city, by fine or imprisonment, or both.
[Amendment approved by the Governor, 7-13-1936]
§ A.3.35. Provide For Commutation Of Fines Or Labor On Streets; Collection Of
Fines.
   The City of Enid may provide by ordinance for the commutation of fines
imposed, or may require labor in a workhouse or on a rock pile, or upon the
public streets, and public highways of the City of Enid, and for the collection
of any fine imposed; execution may be enforced as other executions issued in
civil cases.
§ A.3.36. Power To Enforce Forfeiture Of Franchise.
   Whenever the forfeiture of a franchise, right or privilege granted to any
person, firm or corporation to be exercised as a public utility, as provided in
this charter, the power to enforce such forfeiture shall not be construed to be
in the Board of Commissioners, but such forfeiture shall be finally enforced
only through the decree of a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ A.3.37. Regulate Streets And Grant Franchises.
   The City of Enid shall have power, by ordinance duly passed, to regulate,
operate or control the streets and alleys of said City of Enid, or may confer
by ordinance upon any person or corporation, the franchise, or the right to use
the property of the city, for the purpose of furnishing to the public any
general public service.
§ A.3.38. Power To Own, Etc., Utilities.
   The City of Enid shall have power, by ordinance duly passed, to buy, or
construct, own, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, gas or electric
plants, telephones, streetcars and sewers, or any other public service or
public enterprise.
[Amendment approved by the Governor, 7-13-1936; Ord. No. 2002-58, §I, 12-17-
2002 approved at election on March 4, 2003]
§ A.3.39. Fire Protection Powers.
   The City of Enid shall have power to provide means for the protection
against and the extinguishment of fires and shall provide for the regulation,
maintenance and support of a fire department, may prescribe fire limits,
regulate and prohibit the erection of buildings in said limits, may direct and
prescribe that all buildings within the fire limits shall be constructed of
fireproof material, the kind, character, extent and quality of which buildings
and materials may, by ordinance, be prescribed and fixed. And shall, by
ordinance duly passed, adopt such rules and regulations in relation thereto as
may seem best for the public safety, comfort and protection. And may, by
ordinance, condemn, destroy, remove or cause to be removed, any building or
thing that seems best for the public safety, comfort and protection.
§ A.3.40. Health Powers.
   The City of Enid shall have power, by ordinance duly passed, to regulate and
prescribe such rules and regulations deemed advisable or necessary to protect
the public health, public safety and comfort.
ARTICLE IV. BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ A.4.1. General Powers.
   The Board of Commissioners shall be vested with the power, and charged with
the duty, of adopting all laws and ordinances not inconsistent with the
Constitution of this State and the laws thereof touching every subject matter
and subject, within the purview of the local government, instituted by this
charter.
§ A.4.2.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.4.3.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.4.4. General Financial Powers.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have the management and control of the
finances of the city, except as otherwise herein provided. They shall have the
power to appropriate money and provide for the payment of debts and expenses of
the city; to provide by ordinance for special funds for special purposes, and
to make the same disbursable only for such purposes.
§ A.4.5. Power To Finance Debts, Issue Bonds, Etc.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have the power to fund or refund, as
provided by law, the whole or any part of the existing debts of the city or any
future debt, by acquiring and cancelling the evidence thereof, and to issue
other bonds in lieu thereof, bearing interest at a rate not greater than the
original indebtedness, and to apply the sinking fund belonging to said series
of bonds so refunded, and may pay and retire any bond, by using the sinking
fund therefor.
§ A.4.6.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.4.7. Persons Authorized To Administer Oaths.
   The Mayor and each Commissioner, the Judge of the Police Court and the City
Clerk shall be and they are hereby authorized to administer oaths in all
matters concerning the municipal affairs of the city.
§ A.4.8.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.4.9.
   [Repealed by amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.4.10.
   [Repealed by amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.4.11.
   [Repealed by amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.4.12. Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, Etc.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations now in force in the city
of Enid, not in conflict herewith, shall remain in full force and effect until
altered, amended or repealed by the Board of Commissioners; and all questions
arising in administering said city government, not provided for herein, shall
be governed by the state law in such case made and provided.
§ A.4.13. Publication Of Legal Notice; Opening And Advertising For Bids.
   The publication of all legal notices of the city shall be made in some
newspaper which is of general circulation, and must have been of a continuous
publication for a period of at least one year in the city of Enid, and before
letting the contract for the city printing, the Board of Commissioners shall
cause an advertisement to be published in a daily newspaper of general
circulation in the city of Enid, inviting competitive bids from daily
newspapers published in the city of Enid, for the work to be done, said
advertisement to be published not less than five (5) times; all bids submitted
shall be sealed, and the same shall be opened by the mayor in the presence of
the majority of the Board of Commissioners and shall remain on file in the
office of the city clerk and be open to public inspection for at least forty
eight (48) hours before any award of said work is made to any competitive
bidder. The Board of Commissioners shall, in determining the most advantageous
bid for the city, take into consideration the true and actual circulation of
said papers in the city, and shall enter into contract with the party
submitting the lowest secure bid; and if, in the opinion of the Board of
Commissioners, none of said bids are satisfactory, then the commissioners may
reject all bids and immediately readvertise for bids inviting competition from
both daily and weekly papers published in the city of Enid, and proceed as
before.
[Ord., 9-27-1909, eff. 12-20-1909]
[Editor’s note:
   The special notice provisions in this section have been superseded by the
adoption of section Part     D. Article I, §18 in 1989 that provides that the
open meeting act is to be followed.]
ARTICLE V. FINANCE
§ A.5.1. Levy Of Ad Valorem Tax.
   The Board of Commissioners shall, by ordinance or resolution, on or before
the first Tuesday in August in each year, levy an ad valorem tax for all
purposes except as herein otherwise provided, not to exceed the limit provided
by the constitution of the state of Oklahoma, which said levy shall include the
levy for park and library purposes. Said ordinance or resolution shall specify
distinctly the purpose for which said tax is levied, and no tax levied and
collected for one purpose shall ever be diverted to any other purpose. The tax
so levied, when collected, shall be kept in the fund created.
§ A.5.2. Raising Of Revenue To Pay Debt.
   The Board of Commissioners shall, on or before the first Tuesday in August
of each year, levy sufficient additional revenue to create a sinking fund to be
used first, for the payment of interest coupons as they fall due; second, for
the payment of bonds as they fall due; third, for the payment of such parts of
judgments as such municipality may by law be required to pay; provided, that
said city shall not be required to pay to exceed one-third (1/3) of the
original amount of all judgments now outstanding in any one year.
§ A.5.3. Tax Increases To Finance Construction Of Public Buildings.
   For the purpose of erecting public buildings in said city, the rates of
taxation herein limited may be increased and the rate of such increase and the
purpose for which it is intended shall be submitted to a vote of the people of
such city and the majority of the qualified voters of such city, voting at such
election, shall vote therefor, provided, that such increase shall not exceed
five (5) mills on the dollar of the assessed valuation of the taxable property
of such city.
[Editor’s note:
   The limitation imposed in this section has been superseded by the passage of
Part A, Article V, §11 in 2003.]
§ A.5.4. Limitations On Indebtedness--Generally.
   Said city shall not be allowed to become indebted in any manner, for any
purpose, to an amount exceeding in any year, the income in revenue provided for
such year, without the assent of three-fifths (3/5) of the qualified voters
thereof voting at an election to be held for that purpose nor in cases
requiring such assent, shall any indebtedness be allowed to be incurred to any
amount, including existing indebtedness, in the aggregate, exceeding five
percent (5%) of the value of the taxable property therein, to be ascertained
from the last assessment roll for state and county purposes, previous to the
incurring of such indebtedness; provided, that said city, in incurring any
indebtedness, requiring the assent of the voters as aforesaid, shall, before or
at the time of doing so, provide for the collection of an annual tax,
sufficient to pay the interest on such indebtedness as it falls due, and also
to constitute a sinking fund for the payment of the principal thereof, within
twenty five (25) years from the time of contracting the same.
[Ord., 9-27-1909, eff. 12-20-1909]
[Editor’s note:
   The limitation imposed in this section has been superseded by the passage of
Part A, Article V, §11 in 2003.]
§ A.5.5. Same--Election To Authorize Increases.
   Said city may, by a majority vote of the qualified voters, voting at an
election to be held for that purpose, be allowed to become indebted in a larger
amount than that specified in section A.5.4, for the purpose of purchasing or
conducting public utilities or for the repairing of the same, to be owned
exclusively by said city; provided, that in the incurring of any such
indebtedness, requiring the assent of the voters aforesaid, said city shall
have the power to provide for, and at or before the time for incurring such
indebtedness, shall provide for collection of an annual tax, in addition to
other taxes provided for by this charter, sufficient to pay the interest on
such indebtedness as it falls due, and also to constitute a sinking fund for
the payment of the principal thereof, within twenty five (25) years from the
time of contracting the same.
[Ord., 9-27-1909, eff. 12-20-1909]
[Editor’s note:
   The limitation imposed in this section has been superseded by the passage of
Part A, Article V, §11 in 2003.]
§ A.5.6. Authority To Issue Bonds.
   Said city, in addition to the authority hereinbefore given, shall have the
authority to issue bonds in lieu of any bond now outstanding against the said
city; provided, that said bonds shall not draw to exceed interest greater than
that which is allowed pursuant to state law, and shall be exchanged at not less
than par, and accrued interest on the outstanding bonds, and when so issued and
exchanged, such outstanding bonds shall be taken up and cancelled.
[Ord. 85-8 § 1, approved at an election on 4-2-1985]
§ A.5.7. Prohibited Interests Of City Officials In Loans.
   The receiving directly, or indirectly by any officer of said city, of any
interest, profit or prerequisites, arising from the use or loan of public funds
in his hands, or to be raised through his agency for city purposes, shall be
deemed sufficient cause to forfeit his office and the person so receiving shall
then and there forfeit his office and be disqualified to hold office.
§ A.5.8. Certification And Collection Of Tax Levies And Assessments.
   The various levies provided by this article and all other taxes and
assessments provided in this charter, except license and poll taxes, shall be
certified by the city clerk to the county clerk of Garfield County, to be by
said county clerk placed on the tax rolls for collection, subject to the same
penalty and collected by the county treasurer as other taxes are collected by
the county treasurer, as is provided by law for the collection of taxes, and
paid by him to the city treasurer, and such payment shall include all penalties
collected on such city taxes. The entire amount of all city levies shall be
placed upon the tax rolls as one levy, to be known as “city levy”.
§ A.5.9. Payment Of Tax Collections By County To City.
   The county treasurer shall, on January 15, May 15, July 15, and November 15,
of each year, and oftener if required by the Board of Commissioners, pay over
to the city treasurer, all monies and evidence of indebtedness, collected and
payable to this city, which shall include all penalties collected on city taxes
and assessments, and render a full itemized statement thereof to the Board of
Commissioners and the county treasurer shall duplicate receipts from the city
treasurer for the same, and file one of said receipts with the county clerk and
the city clerk shall enter in a book for that purpose, and under the proper
head, all amounts for which receipts are given.
§ A.5.10. Minimum Interest To Be Paid By Depositories.
   The city treasurer, under the immediate direction of the mayor and Board of
Commissioners, shall require every bank with which he makes a deposit of the
city’s funds, to pay not less than two percent (2%) interest on the average
daily or monthly balance of all money in said bank or banks, belonging to said
city, such interest to become a part of the fund on deposit and the said city
treasurer shall not keep any money in any bank that will not make such
allowance as aforesaid.
§ A.5.11. General Indebtedness.
   The city shall be allowed to become indebted in the manner, amount, and
subject to the restrictions provided by the constitution and the laws of the
state of Oklahoma as amended from time to time. This charter provision shall
supersede all local rules, ordinances, and charter provisions regarding the
manner, amount, and restrictions governing the indebtedness of the city.
[Ord. 2002-56 §I, 12-17-2002, approved at an election on March 4, 2003]
ARTICLE VI. POLICE COURT
§ A.6.1. Judicial Powers Vested.
   The judicial power of the city shall be vested in a Police Court.
§ A.6.2. General Jurisdiction.
   The Police Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of the criminal
proceedings for a violation of any city ordinance, and of all civil actions and
proceedings arising out of a violation of such ordinances and for the
collection of any license required by any ordinance, except such actions and
proceedings as fall within the jurisdiction of other courts under the
provisions of the Constitution of this State.
§ A.6.3. Jurisdiction Over Specific Offenses.
   The Police Court shall also have exclusive jurisdiction of the following
offenses committed within the city (except when prosecuted by indictment or
information): 1) petty larceny; 2) assault and battery; 3) breaches of the
peace, riot, committing willful injury to property and all misdemeanors
punishable by fine or imprisonment in the county jail, or by both; 4)
proceedings respecting vagrants, lewd or disorderly persons; and all other
petty offenses and misdemeanors committed within the city embraced in its
ordinances or by the laws of the State of which the Police Court has
jurisdiction.
§ A.6.4. Disposition Of Fines.
   All fines, penalties and forfeitures collected by said Police Court shall be
the property of the city, and shall be immediately deposited with the City
Treasurer for the use of said city.
§ A.6.5. Dockets, Records, Etc.
   The city shall furnish the necessary dockets, and all blanks and other books
and papers and stationery in the transaction of the business of said Police
Court. A complete record of all cases shall be entered in the docket of said
court.
§ A.6.6. Hours Of Operation.
   The Police Court shall always be open for the transaction of business,
except on Sunday.
ARTICLE VII. ELECTIONS
§ A.7.1.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.7.2.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.7.3.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.7.4.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.7.5.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.7.6. Board Of Education.
   The Board of Education of the City of Enid shall consist of seven (7)
members, one member to be nominated from each ward and territory attached to
said ward for school purposes, and one member to be nominated from the school
district at large in the manner provided by law and the City Charter. All
candidates shall be voted on at large by the qualified electors of said school
district in the manner provided by law and the City Charter.
   The term of office of each member shall be for a period of four (4) years
beginning the first Monday in May after the election, or until his successor
has been elected and qualified; provided, that in the election hereinafter
provided for on the first Tuesday in April, 1935, the term of the three (3)
members of said Board elected at said election receiving the lowest number of
votes therein shall be for a period of two (2) years beginning the first Monday
in May, 1935, or until their successors have been elected and qualified.
   An election shall be held on the First Tuesday in April, 1935, and
biennially thereafter as provided by law and the City Charter, for the election
of Board members whose terms expire on the first Monday in May of the year of
the election.
   The City and School District shall each bear one-half (1/2) the expense of
an election held for both city and school officers or for both city and school
purposes. The city shall pay the entire expense of any election held for City
Officers or city purposes only, and the Board of Education shall pay the entire
expense of any election for school officers or for school purposes only.
   Qualified electors residing in the territory outside the limits of the City
of Enid but within the school district shall be entitled to vote at all school
elections in the ward and precinct adjacent to the outlying territory in which
said elector resides.
[Amendment approved by the Governor, 8-29-1933]
§ A.7.7. Recall.
   The holder of any elective office may be removed at any time by the electors
qualified to vote for a successor of such incumbent. The procedure to effect
the removal of an incumbent of an elective office shall be as follows: A
petition signed by electors entitled to vote for a successor to the incumbent
sought to be removed, equal in number to at least thirty (30) per centum of the
vote of those that voted in the particular ward for commissioners if the recall
is for a commissioner or thirty (30) per centum of all those who voted for the
office of the Mayor if the recall is for the Mayor at the last preceding
general municipal election, demanding an election of a successor of the person
sought to be removed shall be filed with the City Clerk, which petition shall
contain a general statement of the grounds and charges for which the removal is
sought. The signatures to the petition need not all be appended to one paper,
but each signer shall add to his signature his place of residence, giving the
street and number. One of the signers of each such paper shall make oath before
an officer competent to administer oaths that the statements therein made are
true as he believes, and that each signature to the paper appended is the
genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be. Within ten (10)
days from the date of filing such petition the City Clerk shall examine and
from the voters’ register ascertain whether or not said petition is signed by
the requisite number of qualified electors, and, if necessary, the Council
shall allow him extra help for that purpose; and he shall attach to said
petition his certificate, showing the result of said examination. If by the
Clerk’s certificate the petition is shown to be insufficient, it may be amended
within ten (10) days from the date of said certificate. The Clerk shall, within
ten (10) days after such amendment, make like examination of the amended
petition, and if his certificate shall show the same to be insufficient, it
shall be returned to the person filing the same without prejudice, however, to
the filing of a new petition to the same effect. If the petition shall be
deemed to be sufficient, the Clerk shall submit the same to the Mayor and
Commissioners without delay. If the petition shall be found to be sufficient,
the Council shall order and fix a date for holding the said election, not less
than thirty (30) days nor more than forty (40) days from the date of the
Clerk’s certificate to the Mayor and Commissioners that a sufficient petition
is filed.
   The Mayor and Commissioners shall make, or cause to be made, publication of
notice and all arrangements for holding such election, and the same shall be
conducted, returned and the result thereof declared, in all respects as are
other city elections. The successor of an officer so removed shall hold office
during the unexpired term of his predecessor. Any person sought to be removed
may be a candidate to succeed himself, and unless he requests otherwise in
writing, the Clerk shall place his name on the official ballot without
nomination. In any such removal election, the candidate receiving the highest
number of votes shall be declared elected. At such election if some other
person than the incumbent receives the highest number of votes the incumbent
shall thereupon be deemed removed from the office upon qualification of his
successor. In case the party who receives the highest number of votes shall
fail to qualify, within ten (10) days after receiving notification of election,
the office shall be deemed vacant. If the incumbent receives the highest number
of votes, he shall continue in office. The same method of removal shall be
cumulative and additional to the methods heretofore provided by law.
   No recall petition shall be filed against any officer until he has actually
held his office for at least six (6) months.
[Ord. No. 2002-51, §I, 12-17-2002 approved at election on March 4, 2003]
[Editor’s Note:
   A recall election for a commissioner would be a ward election while a recall
election of mayor would be citywide.]
ARTICLE VIII. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ A.8.1. Unauthorized Diversion Of Funds.
   Any Commissioner who shall divert the money from the proper fund to which it
belongs, except pursuant to a resolution or ordinance passed by the Board of
Commissioners, duly authorizing the same or shall be instrumental in doing so
or who shall transfer the same from one fund to the other or who shall be the
cause directly or indirectly of having same diverted or transferred from the
fund to which it rightfully belongs, except pursuant to a resolution or
ordinance authorizing the same and duly passed by the Board of Commissioners
shall be deemed guilty of malfeasance of office and shall be removed from
office and shall be punished as the law requires. Provided, however, that if
there shall remain in any fund, at the end of the current year, any portion
thereof which has not been needed and has not been expended for the purpose for
which it was created, that then and in that event the Board of Commissioners
are hereby authorized the transfer of said fund to any fund of the City of Enid
to be properly and lawfully expended for the needs of said city and this
provision shall apply to any unexpended balance theretofore remaining in any
fund, as well as to any such balance hereafter arising.
[Amendment approved by the Governor, 10-20-1913]
§ A.8.2.
   [Repealed by amendment approved by the Governor on October 20, 1913.]
§ A.8.3. Poll Tax Authorized.
   The City of Enid shall have the power and the Board of Commissioners of said
city are hereby vested with the power and duty, to levy and annually collect a
poll tax, not exceeding two dollars ($2.00) in cash, from each able-bodied male
citizen between the ages of twenty one (21) and fifty (50) years; when such
action is authorized, the City Clerk shall make and certify a list of those
liable to pay the same and deliver such list to the Commissioner of Finance and
Revenue, to be by him collected and properly accounted.
[Editor’s Note:
   This section is unconstitutional and is not enforced.]
§ A.8.4. Bonds From Contractors.
   The Board of Commissioners shall require good and sufficient bonds from all
contractors, with at least two (2) good and sufficient sureties, who shall be
residents of the State of Oklahoma. No nonresidents of the State shall ever be
received sureties on any bond payable to the City of Enid, except such Guaranty
Companies as are authorized to make bonds in the State of Oklahoma and that may
be satisfactory to the Board of Commissioners. When bondsmen are not residents
of Garfield County, such proof of their solvency may be required as the Board
of Commissioners may deem necessary.
§ A.8.5. General Provisions Relative To Contracts.
   No contracts shall be entered into by the Board of Commissioners until after
an appropriation has been made therefor, nor in excess of the amount
appropriated, and all contracts shall be made upon specification, no contract
shall be binding upon the city unless it has been signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the City Clerk, and the expenses thereof charged to the proper
fund, liable for the payment of the same, and whenever the contracts charged to
any fund equals the appropriation made therefor, no further contracts shall be
signed by the Mayor or City Clerk, the payment of which would come from such
fund.
§ A.8.6. Bids Required For Certain Contracts.
   All contracts of whatever character, pertaining to public improvements, or
maintenance of public property of said city, involving an outlay of as much as
five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be based upon specifications to be
prepared and submitted to and approved by the Board of Commissioners, and after
approval by the Board of Commissioners, advertisement for the proposed work or
matter embraced in said proposed contract shall be made, inviting competitive
bids for the work to be done, which advertisement shall be published in a daily
newspaper, not less than five (5) times and all bids submitted shall be sealed,
and shall be opened by the Mayor in the presence of a majority of the Board of
Commissioners, and shall remain on file in the office of the City Clerk, and be
open to public inspection for at least forty eight (48) hours before any award
of said work made to any competitive bidder. Said newspaper to be of general
circulation and to have been published for a period not less than one year in
said City of Enid.
[Editor’s Note:
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 91-05,approved at an election on Jan. 15, 1991, added
§ 19 to Art. 1 of Part D of this charter relative to the Public Competitive
Bidding Act of 1974.]
§ A.8.7 Exemptions From Special Assessments.
   No property of any kind, churches, schools or otherwise, shall be exempt
from any of the special assessments authorized by this charter, or the laws of
the State of Oklahoma for local improvements.
§ A.8.8. Service Of Legal Process.
   All legal process against the city shall be served upon the Mayor, or Mayor
Pro Tempore.
§ A.8.9. City Property Not Subject To Execution.
   The property, real and personal, belonging to said city, shall not be liable
to be sold or appropriated under any writ of execution or cost bill, or other
force sale, nor shall the funds belonging to said city in the hands of any
person be liable to garnishment for any debt it may owe, or funds it shall have
due any person, nor shall said city be required to answer to any writ of
garnishment on any account whatsoever.
§ A.8.10. Illegal Purchase Of Votes, Office, Etc.
   No officer or employee of said city shall give or promise to give to any
other person, any portion of his compensation or any money or valuable thing or
promise of employment to any person, in consideration of having been, or being
nominated, appointed, voted for, or elected to any office or employment, and if
any such promise of gift be made, the person making or accepting such gift or
promise shall forfeit his office or employment and be debarred and disqualified
from being elected, appointed, or employed in the service of said city.
§ A.8.11. Unauthorized Acceptance Of Gifts, Salaries, Etc., By City Officers;
Conflicts Of Interest.
   Any officer of said city who shall, while in office, accept any donation or
gratuity in money or other valuable thing, either directly or indirectly from
any person or corporation dealing with the city or any subordinate or employee,
or from any candidate or applicant for any position as employee or subordinate
under him, shall forfeit his office and be forever debarred and disqualified
from holding any position in the service of the city.
   Neither Mayor nor any member of the Board of Commissioners, nor any elective
or appointive employee of the city, shall be directly or indirectly in the
employ of any person, company, or corporation holding or seeking to hold any
franchise of the City of Enid, or shall receive, directly or indirectly, any
wages, commission, gift or favor, or payment from any such franchise holder;
and a violation of this section shall ipso facto render vacant the position
held by the person so violating it, and shall be punished as bribery.
   No member of the Board of Commissioners or any other officer of said city
shall be directly or indirectly financially interested in any work, business or
contract, the expenses, price or consideration of which is paid from the City
Treasury, or by any assessment levied by ordinance or resolution of the Board
of Commissioners; nor be surety of any person having any contract work or
business with the city for the performance of which security may be required,
nor be the surety on the official bond of any officer of the city. Contracts in
violation of said provision shall be void.
§ A.8.12. Liability For Illegal Payments.
   Every officer who shall approve, allow, or pay any demand on the Treasury
not authorized by law, or by this charter, shall be liable to said city
individually and on his official bond for the amount of the demand so illegally
approved, allowed or paid.
§ A.8.13. Public Inspection Of Books And Records.
   All books and records in every office and department except warrants in the
Police Department, unexecuted, shall be open to the inspection of any citizen
at any time during business hours.
[Editor’s Note:
   Repealed by passage of Part D, Article 1, Section 18 in 1989.]
§ A.8.14. Reports Of Contract Violations By City Officers And Employees.
   It shall be the official duty of every officer or person in the employ or
service of said city, when it shall come to his knowledge that any contract or
agreement with said city or with any officer has been or is about to be
violated by the other contracting party, forthwith to report to the Mayor and
Board of Commissioners all facts and information in his possession concerning
such matter, and a failure to do so shall forfeit his office and remove the
officer and employee therefrom.
§ A.8.15. Taxpayer Suits To Enjoin Improper Expenditures.
   Any person who is a taxpayer of said city may maintain an action in the
proper court to restrain the execution of any illegal, unauthorized or
fraudulent contract of said city, or prevent paying any illegal, unauthorized
or fraudulent contract or agreement on behalf of said city and to restrain any
disbursing officer of said city from paying any illegal, unauthorized or
fraudulent bills, claims or demands against said city, or any salary or
compensation of any person in its administrative services, whose appointment
has not been made in pursuance with the provisions of law the regulations in
force thereunder, and in case of any such illegal, unauthorized or fraudulent
bills, claims or demand or any such salary or compensation which has been paid,
such citizen may maintain an action in the name of said city against the
officer and his bondsmen, from making such payment, and the party receiving the
same, or either, to recover the amount so paid, and such amount, after
deducting all expenses of the action, shall be paid into the City Treasury. In
case said taxpayer is not successful in such action, he shall pay all costs. In
no event shall the city ever be liable for the payment of such costs.
§ A.8.16. Appeals From Police Court.
   The defendant shall have the right to appeal in all cases from the Police
Court to the County Court of Garfield County.
§ A.8.17. Elections Generally.
   All elections for the approval of bond issues, the granting of franchises
and the levying of special taxes, wherein such matters shall be submitted to a
vote of the taxpayers of the city, shall be held at the general or special
election in said City of Enid. The elections held to elect members of the
School Board, Mayor and Commissioners shall be the only elections in said city
which shall be denominated general elections.
§ A.8.18.
   [Repealed by Amendment No. 7, approved by the Governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.8.19. Writs, Subpoenas, Service.
   All writs, subpoenas, or other processes issuing out of the Police Court
shall run in the name of the City of Enid, and may be executed and served by
the Chief of Police or his deputies, or policemen of said city or by private
process servers. Provided, that the city shall never be made liable for the
costs in any proceeding in the Police Court; and provided further, a law
enforcement officer of the municipality or county sheriff may serve an arrest
warrant issued by the municipal court any place within the state.
[Ord. No. 91-08, § I, 2-5-1991 approved at election on April 2, 1991; Ord. No.
2002-57, §I, 12-17-2002 approved at election on March 4, 2003]
§ A.8.20. Board Of Health Authorized.
   The Board of Commissioners are hereby authorized and required to create a
Board of Health for the City of Enid, said Board shall consist of three (3)
members, one of whom shall be a reputable physician, and shall as elsewhere
provided, and their duties and powers shall be as defined by law.
§ A.8.21. Power Over Streets.
   The City of Enid shall have and exercise such general powers over its
streets, alleys and public property, and make provisions relating thereto as
are now provided by law or as may be hereafter provided by ordinance.
§ A.8.22. Library Board Of Directors--Required.
   All public reading rooms and public libraries shall be under the management
and care of a Board of Directors composed of six (6) members, chosen from the
citizens of the City of Enid at large, and shall be appointed as elsewhere
provided in this charter.
§ A.8.23. Same--Terms Of Office.
   Within thirty (30) days after the election of the Board of Commissioners
provided for in this charter, said Board of Directors shall be appointed as
follows: Two (2) members who shall hold office until the first Monday in May,
1911. Two (2) members who shall hold office until the first Monday in May,
1912, and two (2) members who shall hold office until the first Monday in May,
1913, and the six (6) members so appointed shall constitute the Board of
Library Directors. The term of office shall be three (3) years. At the
expiration of the term of office of each of the aforesaid directors, his
successors in office shall be appointed to serve for a term of three (3) years,
and until his successor in office has been appointed and qualified. And
annually thereafter there shall be appointed, on or before the first Monday in
May, two (2) directors to take the place of the retiring director on said
Board.
§ A.8.24. Same--Officers And Claims.
   Said directors shall immediately after appointment meet and organize by
electing one of their number as president, and another as vice president, and
another as secretary of the Board, and thereafter such officers of the Board
shall be chosen on the second Monday in May of each year.
   Proper vouchers shall be rendered against the said board of directors for
all expenditures, duly verified, as all claims against cities of the first
class, and when certified by the president of and secretary of said board of
directors to be correct, the Board of Commissioners shall allow the same and
order the same to be paid out of the library fund of said city as other
obligations against the city are paid.
§ A.8.25. Same--Powers.
   Said board of directors shall have all the authority and power, and shall
perform all of the duties and requirements, provided in chapter seventy- one
(71) section fifty-eight sixty-four (5864) to section fifty-eight seventy-
three (5873) inclusive, of the statutes of Oklahoma, and the same are adopted
and made a part of this charter, save that where the same reads “the mayor and
city council” it shall be construed to mean the “mayor and commissioners”
elected under this charter, and except as otherwise provided in this charter.
[Ord., 9-27-1909, eff. 12-20-1909]
[Editor’s note:
   The court in City of Enid v. Board of Directors of Enid & Garfield County
Public Library, CJ-2008-327, found that this section was repealed in 1947 with
the adoption of part D of the charter pursuant to section D.3.1.]
§ A.8.26.
   [Repealed by amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.8.27.
   [Repealed by amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.8.28.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.8.29.
   [Repealed by amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.8.30.
   [Amended by amendment approved by the governor on October 20, 1913; repealed
by amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on January 4, 1947.]
§ A.8.31. Applicability Of State Constitution.
   The provisions of this charter shall be subject to the provisions of the
constitution of the state of Oklahoma.
ARTICLE IX. SCHEDULE
   In order that no inconvenience or injury may result from the change in the
form of government which now exists in the city of Enid, to the form of
government which shall exist and be in operation in such city under the
foregoing charter, it is hereby provided and declared:
   First: That no existing right, action, suit, proceeding, claim or contract
shall be affected by such change in the form of government but all shall
continue as if no change in the form of government had taken place.
   Second: That the foregoing charter and the municipal government thereby
created shall remain in abeyance, after its adoption and approval as provided
in the constitution and laws of this state, until after the first election and
qualification of the officers, which by the provisions of said charter, are
required to be elected, and the present mayor and city council of said city of
Enid shall, until after said first election, continue to possess and exercise
the powers and duties imposed on them by law.
PART B. FIRE DEPARTMENT CIVIL SERVICE AMENDMENT
[Editor’s note:
   This part contains the charter amendment creating a civil service system for
the fire department, approved by the governor on May 9, 1930. Such amendment
did not create specific sections of the basic charter, hence its inclusion as
part B.]
ARTICLE I. COMMISSION
§ B.1.1. Generally.
   There is hereby created for the purpose of carrying into effect and
enforcing the provisions of the civil service laws of the fire department of
the city of Enid, Oklahoma, as hereinafter set forth and specified, and for the
purpose of ascertaining the merit and fitness of all persons seeking positions
in the said fire department to which these laws shall apply, a fire department
civil service commission composed of five (5) citizens of the city of Enid, one
of whom shall be a member of the Enid fire department and who shall act as the
secretary of this commission, such commission to be designated as appointed by
the mayor and commissioners of the city of Enid and to be known as the fire
department civil service commission of the city of Enid, and not more than
three (3) of said civil service commission shall hold any other public office
except the secretary, who may be an officer of the fire department in
accordance with the specifications of this amendment.
   The members of the Civil Service Commission shall be appointed for a term of
six (6) years, and until their successors shall have been appointed and
qualified. In the event a vacancy, for any reason, shall occur in said Civil
Service Commission, the Secretary of such Commission shall immediately notify
the Mayor and City Commissioners of such vacancy, and said Mayor and City
Commissioners shall, within thirty (30) days thereafter, appoint another
citizen of the City of Enid, who shall hold office during such unexpired term;
provided, that in any event, the Mayor and City Commissioners shall fill, by
appointment, any vacancy occurring in the Civil Service Commission within
thirty (30) days after actual notice of such vacancy shall have been brought to
the attention of said Mayor and City Commissioners.
[Ord. No. 2002-53, §1, 12-17-2002 approved at election on March 4, 2003]
§ B.1.2. Functions And Secretary.
    a)   It shall be the duty of such Civil Service Commission to enforce all
rules for the Classification of the officers, places, and employments in the
Fire Department Service of the City of Enid, and for the appointments and
promotions therein and examinations thereof.
   b)   Subject to the direction of the Civil Service Commission, the Secretary
shall have charge of all matters pertaining to examinations called for under
these rules, ascertain the merit and fitness of the candidates for admission
into the civil service of the city with respect to such candidate’s character,
knowledge, and ability for this particular branch of service and to estimate
and determine the relative excellence and standing of the persons examined, and
to certify the same in such manner and form as may be prescribed.
   The Secretary of the Civil Service Commission shall keep minutes of the
Commission’s proceedings and all necessary records of applicants, their
examinations and standing, and keep a complete record of all persons employed
in the Fire Department and record all appointments, promotions, transfers,
dismissals, resignations and changes of any kind therein. He shall also see
that the rules and regulations are complied with and bring all cases of
infraction of these rules to the attention of the Civil Service Commission.
ARTICLE II. ORGANIZATION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ B.2.1. Rank Of Officers And Firemen.
   a)   The Officers of the Fire Department of the City of Enid shall be ranked
in the following manner:
      The Chief shall be first in rank and the other officers shall occupy
relative positions as follows:
      The Assistant Chief shall rank next below the Chief.
      The rank of Secretary shall be next below that of Chief in his
department.
      The rank of Fire Marshal shall be next below that of Chief in his
department.
      The rank of Assistant Fire Marshal shall be next below that of Fire
Marshal of his department.
      The Master Mechanic shall rank next below that of Chief in his
department.
      The rank of Assistant Mechanic shall rank next below that of Master
Mechanic in his department.
      The Training Officer shall rank next below that of Chief in his
department.
      The rank of Deputy Chief shall be next below that of Assistant Chief.
      The Captains shall rank next below the Deputy Chiefs in their
departments.
      The Lieutenants shall rank next below the Captains in their departments.
   Should the Chief or any officer of the Fire Department be dismissed from any
position on account of unfitness for the discharge of his duties under said
position and not for any cause authorizing his entire dismissal from the
service, he shall be restored to the rank and grade held by him prior to this
appointment. In case of the absence, disability or death of the Chief, said
position shall be filled from the eligibility list hereinafter mentioned.
   b)   The firemen of the Fire Department of the City of Enid shall be ranked
in the following manner:
      The Drivers shall rank next below the Lieutenants in their departments.
      The Firefighters shall rank next below the Drivers in their departments.
[Ord. No. 89-15, § II, 2-7-1989 approved at election on April 4, 1989]
§ B.2.2. Qualifications, Appointments And Duties.
   The City of Enid shall maintain a fire force consisting of the Fire Chief
and such other officers and firemen as may be provided by ordinance. Members of
such Fire Department, including the Chief and his assistants, shall be
appointed from the list of eligibles prepared by the Civil Service Commission
in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed herein; provided,
however, that in case of a riot, conflagration or emergency, the governing
body, or the Chief of the Fire Department of the City of Enid may make
temporary appointments to remain in force during the continuation of such
emergency; such appointees need not be in the classified service.
   The Fire Department shall be under the control and direction of the Chief of
such department, who shall be an experienced fireman. The Fire Chief shall have
exclusive control of the stationing and transfer of all firemen and other
officers and employees constituting the fire force under such rules and
regulations as are herein established. The Fire Chief in charge shall each day
furnish the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission a written statement
designating all members of the Fire Department who are sick or injured and the
Secretary shall keep a complete record thereof.
ARTICLE III. ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICE
§ B.3.1. Personal Qualifications.
   a)   No person shall be admitted to examination for any position in the Fire
Department Service who is not a citizen of the United States and who has not
been an actual resident of the City of Enid for at least three (3) years next
preceding the date of examination.
[Editor’s Note:
   The residency requirement is unconstitutional and is not enforced.]
   b)   No person will be admitted to examination who is less than eighteen
(18) years of age or more than thirty-five (35) years of age at the date of his
examination. This rule shall be waived in the case of men already in the
service of this Fire Department and who have served ninety (90) consecutive
days immediately preceding the adoption of these rules.
[Ord. No. 2002-52, §I, 12-17-2002 approved at election on March 4, 2003]
§ B.3.2. Original Appointments.
   In all other cases, the original appointments to the uniformed force of said
Fire Department shall be made to the lowest grade of said service and
advancement to the highest grade shall be by promotion in accordance with the
provisions of these rules. Every applicant, in addition to other requirements,
shall comply with the following regulations and specifications.
   He shall be not less than five (5) feet, eight (8) inches in height (in bare
feet), and his weight and circumference of chest must be within the following
table and must be physically qualified to sustain the labors and exposures of
the Fire Department as determined by the medical examiner or physical examiner
appointed by the Civil Service Commission for the purposes of making official
examinations:
SCHEDULE
Height Minimum Weight Maximum Weight Min. Circ. Of Chest Quiescent
Height           Minimum Weight Maximum Weight Min. Circ. Of Chest Quiescent
5 feet 8 inches  145 pounds     185 pounds     35 inches
5 feet 9 inches  150 pounds     190 pounds     35½ inches
5 feet 10 inches 155 pounds     195 pounds     36 inches
5 feet 11 inches 160 pounds     200 pounds     37 inches
6 feet           165 pounds     210 pounds     37½ inches
6 feet 1 inch    170 pounds     215 pounds     38 inches
6 feet 2 inches  175 pounds     225 pounds     39 inches
 
   Provided, however, the following modifications of the chest measurement
required in this schedule may be allowed:
      (1) To an applicant whose height is between five feet nine inches (5’9”)
and six feet (6’), a reduction of one inch or any fraction thereof.
      (2) To an applicant whose height is six feet (6’) or over, a reduction of
one and one-half inches (11/2”) or any fraction thereof. And provided further,
that in all cases the applicant shall have a chest expansion of three inches
(3”) or more; and there shall be a difference of at least two inches (2”)
between forced and full respiration; and provided the limitations of this
section shall not apply to men who have served ninety (90) or more consecutive
days immediately preceding the adoption of this amendment.
[Editor’s Note:
   All but the first sentence of this section is unconstitutional and is not
enforced.]
ARTICLE IV. APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO SERVICE
§ B.4.1. Generally.
   a)   Applications for admission to examination shall be made on forms
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission, such forms to be furnished by said
Commission to all applicants for examination, and to require such information
and certifications, of persons acquainted with the applicant, as said
Commission may require. All applications must be filled out and verified in the
handwriting of the applicant.
   b)   A good moral character is of paramount importance, and is an essential
qualification in determining an applicant’s right to examination. Proof at any
time produced to the Civil Service Commission, of an applicant’s bad character
or dissolute habits, or of any criminal or disgraceful act committed by him, or
of dismissal for good cause from the public service, shall be deemed sufficient
grounds for the rejection of such applicant, either before or after
examination, and for removal from the register of eligibles.
   c)   A false statement knowingly made by any person in an application for
examination, connivance at or with any false representation or statement made
in any certificate which may accompany such application, or complicity in any
fraud touching the same, shall be regarded as good cause for exclusion from the
examination, or from the register of eligibles, or for removal or discharge
during probation, or thereafter; but no person shall be removed from a register
of eligibles, or from the service, under this section, until an opportunity has
been given him to be publicly heard before the Civil Service Commission, on
written charges, and after due notice, as hereinafter provided for the hearing
of charges before said Civil Service Commission. And a record shall be kept of
the findings of said Commission, showing the vote thereon and the reasons
therefor.
   d)   Applications and accompanying certificates will be filed in the office
of the Civil Service Commission, and will not be returned to the applicant.
   e)   Defective applications shall be returned and an opportunity given for
correction, except when the defects therein disqualify the applicant under
these regulations.
   f)   The Civil Service Commission may limit the number of applicants to be
examined, according to the needs of the service, and in such cases, applicants
shall be admitted to examination in the order in which their applications have
been filed in due form.
§ B.4.2. Special Requirements In Mechanical Engineering And Electrical Service.
   In the Mechanical Engineering and Electrical Service the applicant shall be
required to produce, in addition to the other qualifications in this Article
enumerated, a certificate from some competent person or persons in the same
trade or occupation, of the applicant’s ability to do the special kind of work
in which he desires to be employed, and, in the case of mechanics, that the
applicant has served not less than three (3) years at his respective trade.
ARTICLE V. EXAMINATIONS
§ B.5.1. Character Of Examination.
   All examinations shall be impartial, public, competitive, and practical in
their character, and shall relate to those matters which will fairly test the
relative capacity of the persons examined to discharge the duties of the
positions to which they seek appointment, and shall include tests of physical
qualifications and health, and, when appropriate, of manual skill. No questions
in any examination shall relate to political or religious opinion or
affiliation.
§ B.5.2. Time, Place, And Notice.
   Examinations shall be held at such times and places as the Civil Service
Commission may designate, and two (2) weeks’ notice, in writing thereof shall
be given to all eligible applicants.
§ B.5.3. Subjects For Examination And Relative Importance Thereof.
   The subjects in examinations for the Official Service, and the relative
importance of each subject, shall be designated from time to time by the Civil
Service Commission. The subjects may include special tests as to manual skill,
or technical or scientific knowledge.
§ B.5.4. Physical Examinations.
   Physical examinations shall be made by physicians designated by the Civil
Service Commission. The result of such examinations shall be certified in forms
furnished by the Civil Service Commission.
[Ord. No. 89-14, § II, 2-7-1989 approved at election on April 4, 1989]
§ B.5.5. Secrecy Regarding Identity Of Applicants.
   All examinations shall be conducted so that no examination paper will
disclose the name or identity of any applicant until all the examination answer
sheets shall have been graded. Any applicant in any examination who places any
identification mark upon his examination sheet shall be deprived of all
benefits under such examination.
§ B.5.6. Explanation Of Questions.
   All necessary explanations of examination questions shall be made to the
whole class. No question shall be explained to any individual applicant.
§ B.5.7. Penalty For Withdrawal From Examination.
   Any applicant who withdraws from any examination or fails to complete the
entire examination after filling out his identification card and receiving
copies of the questions shall be considered as having failed in said
examination. The reason for such failure shall be stated on his record card.
§ B.5.8. Leaving Room During Examination.
   During the examination no applicant will be permitted to leave the room in
which the examination is being conducted, except in case of extreme necessity
and then only after having handed in his papers on one subject and prior to his
having received the questions in the next subject.
§ B.5.9. Time Limit For Examination.
   The time limit prescribed for each examination, and for any special subject
of examination, shall be announced before the examination. Such examination
shall begin when all announcements have been made and questions distributed. No
variation of time limitation shall be allowed any applicant during any
particular examination.
§ B.5.10. Grading.
   a)   Each member of Examining Board (composed of the Civil Service
Commission) shall place the grade he gives the applicant, on each subject, on a
separate blank and at the end of the grading, the three (3) grades on said
subject shall be averaged; this average shall be the final grade in said
subject. The Civil Service Commission shall establish a uniform method for
arriving at grades in all subjects; and each competitor or applicant shall be
uniformly graded on a scale of one hundred (100), according to the general
average determined by the markings, and the name of no competitor, who fails to
attain a general average of seventy per centum (70%) of complete proficiency in
the subjects of the examination, taken as a whole, shall be entered on the
register of eligibles for the Service.
   b)   In marking the subject of experience the grade shall be given upon the
answers contained in the application blank, subject to the general regulations
contained in subdivision (a) of article V, section 10, of this amendment.
§ B.5.11. Fraud In Examination.
   Any person who shall at any examination or in any document signed or
furnished by him in connection with any examination, by himself or in co-
operation with one or more persons, make any false representation regarding
himself or any of the applicants, or by impersonating any other person, or by
allowing any other person to impersonate him, or who uses or aids anyone in
using any information surreptitiously obtained, or who uses or aids another in
using any memoranda whereby an advantage is obtained over other competitors at
such examination shall be excluded from the examination, and his name shall be
stricken from any eligible list upon which it may appear; provided, this
penalty shall not be imposed until after the accused has been given the
opportunity to be heard, in his defense, in the manner prescribed in article IX
of this amendment, insofar as said procedure is applicable hereto.
§ B.5.12. Notice Of Standing.
   Within a reasonable time after the completion of an examination, each
applicant shall be notified of the general average he has attained on
examination.
§ B.5.13. Re-Examination.
   No person who has failed to pass an examination shall be re-examined within
six (6) months from the date of such failure. An applicant who has passed an
examination and been enrolled upon the register of eligibles shall not be again
examined until one year from the date of such enrollment, and then only upon
withdrawal of his name from the register of eligibles and upon the filing of a
new application.
§ B.5.14. Review Of Examination Papers.
   No examination papers and no examination shall be subject to review by any
person after the posting of the eligible list, except that the Civil Service
Commission may correct mistakes committed by an examiner on the unanimous
consent of such Civil Service Commission; provided, however, that no such
correction shall be made after one year from the date of the posting of the
eligible register in which the mistake occurred; and provided further, that no
person who has been certified from said eligible register shall be disturbed
because of such correction.
ARTICLE VI. REGISTER OF ELIGIBLES
§ B.6.1. Enrollment.
   The Civil Service Commission shall prepare and keep a book, to be known as
the “Register of Eligibles,” in which shall be enrolled the names of all
persons who are eligible to appointment or to promotion in the Fire Department
under the proper classes, divisions, and grades. All applicants for any
position in the Fire Department who participated in a competitive examination,
and attained on such examination a general average standing of seventy per
centum (70%), or over, and who are otherwise eligible, shall take rank and be
enrolled upon the register, as candidates for appointment to the position for
which they were examined, in the order of their relative excellence as
determined by examination, without reference to priority of time of
examination.
§ B.6.2. Striking Names From Register.
   The Civil Service Commission may strike the names of candidates from the
Register of Eligibles after they have remained thereon more than one year from
the date of their enrollment, without prejudice to the right of such candidate
or candidates to again make application in an effort to attain a higher state
of proficiency in such examination.
ARTICLE VII. FILLING VACANCIES
§ B.7.1. Requisition And Certification.
   When a vacancy is to be filled in the Fire Department, the appointing
officer shall make a requisition, upon a form prescribed by the Civil Service
Commission for the certification to him of the names of eligibles. The
appointing officer shall notify the Civil Service Commission of each position
to be filled separately. The Civil Service Commission shall, unless the place
is to be filled by reinstatement, certify to the appointing officer the name
and address of the candidate standing the highest upon the register for the
class, division or grade to which said position belongs, and such person shall
be appointed.
§ B.7.2. Waiver Of Certification Or Reinstatement.
   An eligible who has been certified or tendered reinstatement may waive said
certification or reinstatement, upon giving reasons satisfactory to the Civil
Service Commission, without losing his place upon the register. If the reason
assigned is not satisfactory to the Civil Service Commission, or the eligible
refuses to accept an appointment tendered, his name shall be removed from the
eligible register. All waivers must be filed with the Civil Service Commission
within five (5) days from the date of certification. In the absence of such
waiver the name of the eligible next in order is certified in his place. If,
within thirty (30) days from the date of certification, the eligible so removed
furnishes to the Civil Service Commission good and sufficient reason for his
failure to report, he may be restored to the eligible list. But in the absence
of any such sufficient reason, his separation at the expiration of said thirty
(30) days shall be final.
§ B.7.3. Method Of Reinstatement.
   Subject to the provisions of article VII, and the general provisions,
appearing in article X hereof, when a vacancy occurs in any department of the
Fire Department Service, the Civil Service Commission shall, before any new
certificate is made from an eligible register, reinstate in the same class,
division and grade in which he was formerly employed. Any person who has been
examined and appointed under these rules, and who has been temporarily
separated from the Fire Department Service, and the seniority of service of
such appointee shall be governed by the date of his original appointment.
§ B.7.4. Filling Of Vacancies.
   Vacancies in the Fire Department Service, if not filled by the promotion as
herein otherwise provided, shall be filled by requisition and certification as
provided in this amendment. The appointee shall be on probation for a period of
twelve (12) months. At the end of this period, if the conduct and capacity of
the person appointed has been satisfactory, the appointment shall be deemed
complete.
[Ord. No. 89-13, § II, 2-7-1989 approved at referendum April 4, 1989]
§ B.7.5. Discharge During Probationary Period.
   If any appointee shall, during said probation period, be found incompetent
or otherwise disqualified for the performance of the duties of the position he
is filling; the Chief of the Fire Department, by and with the consent of the
Civil Service Commission, may discharge said appointee upon assigning in
writing to the Civil Service Commission the reasons therefor.
§ B.7.6. Temporary Appointments.
   To prevent the stoppage of public business, or to meet extraordinary
exigencies, the Chief of the Fire Department may, with the approval of the
Civil Service Commission, make temporary appointments to remain in force not to
exceed sixty (60) days, and only until a regular appointment can be made in
accordance with the procedure otherwise provided herein.
§ B.7.7. Removal From City [County].
   Removal of the residence from the County of Garfield, shall be the cause for
the discharge of any person in the Fire Department Service.
[Ord. No. 85-6, § 1, approved at election on, 4-2-1985]
§ B.7.8. Restoration Of Probationer.
   Should the work for which a probationer has been certified prove temporary,
and his services be discontinued, without fault or delinquency on his part,
before his time of probation is completed, his name shall be restored to its
proper position upon the Register of Eligibles, and the time he has served
shall be credited to him on his probationary period.
§ B.7.9. Assignment Of Duty.
   Any person appointed to, or promoted in, the Fire Department Service, shall
be required to perform the duties of the position to which he has been
appointed or promoted.
§ B.7.10. Outside Employment.
   No employee of the Fire Department shall engage in any outside occupation
which shall interfere with the response to a call for emergency, when he is off
duty.
ARTICLE VIII. PROMOTIONS
§ B.8.1. Method.
   Promotions in the Fire Department Service shall be made on the basis of
seniority in service and examination. All examinations for promotion shall be
competitive among such members of the next lower grade or rank, as desire to
submit themselves to such examination; provided, however, that captains or
officers of higher rank shall be eligible to take examinations for any rank
higher than that in which they may be at the time of taking such examination.
§ B.8.2. Time Of Service.
   No person shall be examined for promotion for any grade in the Fire
Department unless he has served at least two (2) years in the next lower grade,
except captains and officers of higher rank, who shall, after having passed an
examination showing proper proficiency, be eligible for promotion to any rank.
§ B.8.3. Method Of Examination.
   The method of examination and the rules governing the same shall be the same
as herein provided for applicants for original appointment.
§ B.8.4. Charter Examination.
   Examinations for promotions shall be of the same general character as herein
provided for applicants for original appointment. Length of previous service
and the efficiency of the applicant therein shall be given due consideration.
In ascertaining such efficiency, the record of the applicant as to conduct
shown in the department in which he has served shall be considered.
§ B.8.5. Grading Of Examinations.
   Each competitor shall be graded on a scale of one hundred (100), according
to the general average determined by the markings, and no competitor who fails
to attain a general average of seventy per centum (70%) of complete proficiency
in the subject of the examination, taken as a whole, shall be deemed eligible
for promotion.
§ B.8.6. Priority Of Certification.
   In certifying from the registers for promotion, when two (2) or more
eligibles have the same general average, preference in certification shall be
given in order of seniority of service.
§ B.8.7. Making Of Certification.
   Upon requisition of the Chief of the Fire Department, the Civil Service
Commission shall certify the name of the person standing highest on the
promotion eligible register, and the Chief of the Fire Department shall appoint
said person to the position; provided, however, that no person shall be
certified from a promotion list who has for one year next preceding the date of
the certification, separated himself from the service of the Fire Department,
or who has been removed therefrom upon charges brought and established as
provided in this amendment.
ARTICLE IX. REMOVAL FROM SERVICE
§ B.9.1. Generally.
   Charges against any person holding an office or place of employment in the
Fire Department Service of the City of Enid, may be filed by the Chief or head
of the department in which the person against whom such charges are made is
employed, or by any other person. Such charges shall be investigated by or
before the Civil Service Commission. All charges must be in writing, signed and
duly verified by the person making the same. No member of the Fire Department
can be dismissed from service until proven guilty of charges previously
brought, in the manner hereinafter provided.
§ B.9.2. Hearing.
   The Civil Service Commission shall cause notice in writing, together with a
copy of all charges to be considered, to be personally served upon the accused
or to be mailed to him at his address as shown by the records in the office of
the Civil Service Commission, such notice to state the time, which shall not be
less than ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of such notice, and place
at which such charges will be investigated. The accused shall be given an
opportunity for a public hearing in his defense at such investigation.
§ B.9.3. Findings And Decision.
   The findings and decision of the Civil Service Commission shall be certified
to the Chief of the Fire Department and shall be forthwith enforced by him.
§ B.9.4. Suspension.
   The Chief of the Fire Department may, for good cause, suspend a subordinate
for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. In such case he must forthwith
notify the Civil Service Commission in writing of the suspension and the reason
therefor.
§ B.9.5. Political Activity.
   No person in the Fire Department Service of the City of Enid shall take any
part in any political campaign, in the interest of any candidate, save to
exercise his right of franchise. And any member of said Fire Department, who,
having been given an opportunity to be duly heard as in this act provided,
shall be found to have violated any portion of this rule will be dismissed from
the service.
[Editor’s Note:
   This section is illegal pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes § 22-101.1 and is
not enforced.]
ARTICLE X. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ B.10.1. Reports, Lists, Etc.
   a)   If any office or place of employment is created or abolished, or the
compensation attached thereto altered, the officer or board making such change
shall immediately report the same in writing, to the Civil Service Commission.
   b)   A list, to be known as the Civil List of the Fire Department of the
City of Enid shall be kept in the office of the Civil Service Commission, and
shall contain the name of every person employed in, or receiving compensation
from, the Fire Department. The list shall show, respecting every officer and
employee, the title of office, or position, the length of time the incumbent or
employee has held the same, the salary or compensation thereto attached, the
length of time the incumbent or employee has been in the service of the Fire
Department of the City of Enid, and the place in the service he has filled.
   c)   No payment in compensation for services rendered, after the taking
effect of this amendment, can be made by the City of Enid, or any of its
officers, to a person holding a position in the Fire Department Service, until
it appears either that he was employed in such position at least ninety (90)
consecutive days, immediately preceding the adoption of this amendment, or that
he has been employed under the provisions of this act.
§ B.10.2. Resignations.
   Any officer or employee in the Fire Department Service who tenders his
resignation to his superior officer shall not, after said resignation has been
accepted by the Chief of the Fire Department and reported to the Civil Service
Commission, be allowed to withdraw said resignation or be reinstated, unless
the application for such withdrawal is made within thirty (30) days after the
receipt of said report and then only upon the recommendation of the Chief of
the Fire Department and the consent of the Civil Service Commission.
§ B.10.3. Unauthorized Absences.
   Any officer or employee in the Fire Department Service of this city, who
shall absent himself from a duty for a period of ten (10) days without
permission in writing from the Chief of the Fire Department, shall be
considered as having abandoned his employment and as having separated himself
from the service of the Fire Department. Such officer or employee may, within
thirty (30) days after such separation, make an application in writing to the
Civil Service Commission for reinstatement, and the Civil Service Commission
shall thereupon give him a hearing and may grant said reinstatement, if it
deems the same to be for the interest of the service. If said application for
reinstatement be refused the separation shall be final, subject to the right of
appeal from the rulings of the Civil Service Commission as hereinafter
provided.
§ B.10.4. Leave Of Absence And Reinstatement.
   a)   Leave of absence without pay may be granted by the Chief of the Fire
Department with the consent of the Civil Service Commission, for the following
causes:
      (1)   That an officer or employee may enter upon a course of study, or
engage in an investigation, calculated to improve the quality of his service.
      (2)   If such officer or employee has some reason which, in the judgment
of the Chief of the Fire Department and the Civil Service Commission, is
sufficient to constitute good reason for granting such leave of absence.
      (3)   By the Civil Service Commission, to those eligible, upon the
request of the Chief of the Fire Department for a period of thirty (30) days,
or more, not to exceed six (6) months, except in the case of an employee
desiring to attend an institution of higher learning, in which case the time
limit shall be one year.
   b)   Positions so vacated shall be filled either for the duration of the
leave by substitution from the head of the eligible list, when an eligible
qualified to do the work is available; or by temporary appointment.
   c)   Leave of absence will not be granted during the probationary period, or
within ninety (90) days from the reinstatement of a former employee except on
account of illness.
   d)   A vacation of fifteen (15) days, with full pay, shall be granted each
year to every member of the Enid fire department, who has been in said service
for a period of one full year.
   e)    Sickness, disability, death, and retirement from duty shall be
governed by the Oklahoma Statutes in such case made and provided, and by the
general laws of the state of Oklahoma applicable to the firemen’s relief and
pension fund.
§ B.10.5. Meetings Of Civil Service Commission.
   Meetings of the civil service commission shall be held at the office of said
commission, when called by the president, or any two (2) members, or by the
mayor of the city of Enid. Written notice of the date, time, and object of the
meeting shall be mailed to each other member by the secretary, at least two (2)
days prior to the meeting. A majority of the civil service commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. [Ord., 5-9-1930]
[Editor’s note:
   These notice provisions have been superseded by the passage of D.1.18 in
1989, that provides that the notice requirements of the open meeting act are
followed.]
§ B.10.6. Eligibility Of Civil Service Commission Members For Examinations;
Appointment Of Successors.
   If at any time any member of the civil service commission, created by this
amendment, shall desire to submit to any examination relative to admission to
the fire department service or promotion therein, such member shall make known
to the commission his intention to take such examination and shall resign from
said commission, wholly severing all connection therewith, prior to the date of
the examination in which said member of the commission proposes to compete. It
shall be the duty of the mayor and commissioners of the city of Enid to appoint
a successor to said resigning commissioner immediately upon the acceptance of
such resignation, said successor to be appointed, qualify, and assume his
duties on the civil service commission prior to any preparation made by the
civil service commission with reference to the examination heretofore
mentioned.
§ B.10.7. Reduction In Force.
   In the event it becomes necessary to discontinue the services of any officer
or member of the fire department, because of congested conditions in the
service, or for any other cause not involving any fault or dereliction of such
officer or member justifying his removal for cause under the terms of this
amendment, seniority shall prevail.
§ B.10.8. Financial Support Of Civil Service Commission.
   Appropriation And Expense: The mayor and commissioners of the city of Enid
are hereby authorized and directed to make appropriations necessary for the
payment of such expenses as may be incurred by the civil service commission in
putting into execution and continuing in effect, the provisions of this
amendment.
ARTICLE XI. APPEALS
§ B.11.1. Generally.
   An appeal from any final action, decision, ruling, judgment or order of the
civil service commission may be taken to the district court of Garfield County,
state of Oklahoma, by any person or persons, any taxpayer, officer, department,
board or bureau of the city of Enid, Oklahoma, jointly or severally aggrieved
by filing with the secretary of the civil service commission, within thirty
(30) days, a notice of appeal, which notice shall specify the grounds of such
appeal. Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the secretary
of the civil service commission shall forthwith transmit to the court clerk of
the said district court the original, or certified copies, of all the papers
constituting the record in the case, together with the order, decision or
ruling of the civil service commission. Such case shall be heard and tried de
novo in the district court.
PART C. AMENDMENT NO. 6
POLICE DEPARTMENT CIVIL SERVICE AMENDMENT*
[*Editor’s note:
   This part contains the charter amendment creating a civil service system for
the police department, being amendment no. 6, approved by the governor on April
19, 1937. Such amendment did not create specific sections of the basic charter,
hence its inclusion as part C.]
ARTICLE I. COMMISSION
§ C.1.1. Generally.
   There is hereby created for the purpose of carrying into effect and
enforcing the provisions of the civil service laws of the Department of Police
of the City of Enid, Oklahoma, as hereinafter set forth and specified, and for
the purpose of ascertaining the merit and fitness of all persons seeking
positions in the said Department of Police to which these laws shall apply, a
Department of Police Civil Service Commission composed of five (5) citizens of
the City of Enid, Oklahoma, all of whom shall serve without compensation
therefor and one of whom shall be a member of the Enid Department of Police and
who shall act as Secretary of this Commission, such commission to be designated
and appointed by the Mayor and Commissioners of the City of Enid, and to be
known as the Department of Police Civil Service Commission of the City of Enid,
Oklahoma, and not more than three (3) of said Civil Service Commissioners shall
hold any other office except the Secretary, who may be an officer of the
Department of Police, in accordance with the specifications of the amendment.
   Within thirty (30) days after this amendment shall become effective, the
Mayor and Commissioners of the City of Enid, Oklahoma, shall appoint the
members of such Civil Service Commission, one of whom shall serve for a period
of one year, one for a period of two (2) years, one for a period of three (3)
years, one for a period of four (4) years, and one for a period of five (5)
years, said terms of office to be computed from the date this amendment becomes
effective, all members to take office as soon as they have been appointed and
qualified. Thereafter, the members of the Civil Service Commission shall be
appointed for a term of five (5) years, and until their successors shall have
been appointed and qualified.
   In the event a vacancy, for any reason, shall occur in said Civil Service
Commission, the Secretary of such Commission shall immediately notify the Mayor
and City Commissioners of such vacancy, and said Mayor and City Commissioners
shall, within thirty (30) days thereafter, appoint another citizen of the City
of Enid, Oklahoma, who shall hold office during such unexpired term; provided,
in any event, that the Mayor and City Commissioners shall fill, by appointment,
any vacancy occurring within the Civil Service Commission within thirty (30)
days after actual notice of such vacancy shall have been brought to the
attention of said Mayor and City Commissioners.
§ C.1.2. Functions And Secretary.
   a)   It shall be the duty of such Civil Service Commission to enforce all
rules for the qualification of the officers, places, and employments in the
Department of Police Service of the City of Enid, Oklahoma, and for the
appointments and promotions therein, and the examination thereof.
   It shall be the duty of such Civil Service Commission, as soon as
practicable within sixty (60) days after their appointment and qualification,
to cause to be given an examination, in accordance with the provisions therefor
herein, of all applicants for offices, places, and employments in the
Department of Police, requiring all officers and employees of said Department
at the time of such examination to compete with any and all other applicants
whose applications for admission to the Service may be by the Civil Service
Commission accepted.
   b)   Subject to the direction of the Civil Service Commission, the Secretary
shall have charge of all matters pertaining to examinations called for under
these rules to ascertain the merit and fitness of the candidates for admission
into the Department of Police Service of the City of Enid, Oklahoma, with
respect to such candidate’s character, knowledge, and ability for the
particular class of service, and to estimate and determine the relative
excellence and standing of the persons examined, and to certify the same in
such manner and form as may be prescribed.
   The Secretary of the Civil Service Commission shall keep minutes of the
Commission’s proceedings and all necessary records of applicants, their
examinations and standing, and keep a complete record of all persons employed
in the Department of Police, and record all appointments, promotions,
transfers, dismissals, resignations, and changes of any kind therein.
ARTICLE II. ORGANIZATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ C.2.1. Rank Of Officers.
   The officers of the Department of Police of the City of Enid shall rank in
the following manner:
   The Chief shall be first in rank.
   Other officers shall be ranked in accordance with the rules and regulations
promulgated for use in the Department of Police.
   Should the Chief, or any officer of the Department of Police, be dismissed
from any position on account of unfitness for the discharge of his duties under
said position, and not for any cause authorizing his entire dismissal from the
service, he shall be restored to the rank and grade held by him prior to his
appointment. In case of the absence, disability, or death of the Chief or any
other officer, said position shall be filled from the eligibility list
hereinafter mentioned.
[Ord. No. 2002-54, §I, 12-17-2002 approved at an election on March 4, 2003]
§ C.2.2. Qualifications, Appointments, And Duties.
   The City of Enid shall maintain a Police Department consisting of the Chief
of Police and such other officers and patrolmen as may be provided by
ordinance. Members of the Department of Police, including the Chief and his
assistants, shall be appointed from the list of eligibles prepared by the Civil
Service Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed
herein; provided, however, that in case of an emergency the Chief of the
Department of Police of the City of Enid may make temporary appointments, to
remain in force during the continuation of such emergency. Such appointees need
not be in the classified service.
   The Department of Police shall be under the control and direction of the
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall have exclusive control of the
stationing and transfer of all officers and patrolmen constituting the Police
Force, under such rules and regulations as are established. The Chief of Police
shall each day furnish the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission a written
statement designating all members of the Department of Police who are sick or
injured, and the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission shall keep a
complete record thereof.
ARTICLE III. ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICE
§ C.3.1. Personal Qualifications.
   a)   No person shall be admitted to examination for any position in the
Department of Police who is not a citizen of the United States and who has not
been an actual resident of the City of Enid for at least three (3) years next
preceding the date of examination.
[Editor’s Note:
   The residency requirement is unconstitutional and is not enforced.]
   b)   No person will be admitted to examination who is less than twenty one
(21) years of age, or more than forty five (45), at the time of his
examination. This rule shall be waived in the case of men already in the
service of the Department, and who have served ninety (90) consecutive days
immediately preceding the adoption of these rules. This rule may be waived at
the discretion of the Civil Service Commission, in unusual or extraordinary
cases.
§ C.3.2. Original Appointments.
   In all other cases, the original appointments to positions in the Department
shall be made to the lowest grade of service, and advancements to the highest
grade shall be by promotion in accordance with the provisions of these rules.
Every applicant, in addition to other requirements, shall comply with the
following regulations and specifications
   He shall be not less than five feet six inches (5’6”) in height (in bare
feet), and his weight and circumference of chest must be within the following
table, and he must be physically qualified to sustain the labors and exposures
of the Police Department.
Height Minimum Weight Maximum Weight Min. Circ. Of Chest Quiescent
Height           Minimum Weight Maximum Weight Min. Circ. Of Chest Quiescent
5 feet 6 inches  135 pounds     175 pounds     34 inches
5 feet 7 inches  140 pounds     180 pounds     34½ inches
5 feet 8 inches  145 pounds     185 pounds     35 inches
5 feet 9 inches  150 pounds     190 pounds     35½ inches
5 feet 10 inches 155 pounds     195 pounds     36 inches
5 feet 11 inches 160 pounds     200 pounds     37 inches
6 feet           165 pounds     210 pounds     37½ inches
6 feet 1 inch    170 pounds     215 pounds     38 inches
6 feet 2 inches  175 pounds     225 pounds     39 inches
         
   Provided, however, that the following modifications of the chest measurement
required in this schedule may be allowed:
      (1) To an applicant whose height is between five feet nine inches (5’9”)
and six feet (6’), a reduction of one inch (1”) or any fraction thereof.
      (2) To an applicant whose height is six feet (6’) or over, a reduction of
one and one-half inches (11/2”) or any fraction thereof. And provided further,
that in all cases the applicant shall have a chest expansion of three inches
(3”) or more; and there shall be a difference of at least two inches (2”)
between forced and full respiration; and provided, that the limitations of this
section shall not apply to men who have served ninety (90) or more consecutive
days immediately preceding the adoption of this amendment.
[Editor’s Note:
   All but the first sentence of this section is unconstitutional and is not
enforced.]
ARTICLE IV. APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO SERVICE
§ C.4.1. Generally.
   a)    Applications for admission to examination shall be made on forms to be
furnished by said Commission to all applicants for examination, and to require
such information and certifications of persons acquainted with applicant as
said Commission may require. All applications must be filled out and certified
in the handwriting of the applicant.
   b)   A good moral character is of paramount importance, and is an essential
qualification in determining an applicant’s right to examination. Proof at any
time produced to the Civil Service Commission of an applicant’s bad character
or dissolute habits, or of any criminal or disgraceful act committed by him, or
of dismissal for good cause from the public service, shall be deemed sufficient
grounds for the rejection of such applicant, either before or after
examination, and for removal from the register of eligibles.
   c)   A false statement knowingly made by any person in an application for
examination, connivance at or with any false representation or statement made
in any certificate which may accompany such application, or complicity in any
fraud touching the same, shall be regarded as good cause for exclusion from the
examination, or from the register of eligibles, or for removal or discharge
during probation, or thereafter; but no person shall be removed from a register
of eligibles, or from the service, under this section, until an opportunity has
been given him to be publicly heard before the Civil Service Commission, on
written charges, and after due notice, as hereinafter provided for the hearing
of charges before said Civil Service Commission. And a record shall be kept of
the findings of said Commission, showing the vote thereon and the reasons
therefor.
   d)   Applications and accompanying certificates will be filed in the office
of the Civil Service Commission, and will not be returned to the applicant.
   e)   Defective applications shall be returned and an opportunity given for
correction, except when the defects therein disqualify the applicant under
these regulations.
   f)   The Civil Service Commission may limit the number of applicants to be
examined according to the needs of the service, and in such cases applicants
shall be admitted to examination in the order in which their applications have
been filed in due form.
[Editor’s Note:
   The section number (and catchline) has been furnished by the editor.]
ARTICLE V. EXAMINATION
§ C.5.1. Character Of Examination.
   All examinations shall be impartial, public, competitive, and practical in
their character, and shall relate to those matters which will fairly test the
relative capacity of the persons examined to discharge the duties of the
positions to which they seek appointment, and shall include tests of physical
qualifications and health. No questions in any examination shall relate to
political or religious opinion or affiliation.
§ C.5.2. Time, Place, And Notice.
   Examinations shall be held at such times and places as the Civil Service
Commission may designate, and two (2) weeks’ notice, in writing thereof, shall
be given to all eligible applicants.
§ C.5.3. Subjects For Examination And Relative Importance Thereof.
   The subjects in examinations for the Service, and the relative importance of
each subject, shall be designated from time to time by the Civil Service
Commission. The subjects may include special tests as to technical or
scientific knowledge.
§ C.5.4. Physical Examinations.
   Physical examinations shall be made by physicians designated by the Civil
Service Commission.
[Ord. No. 89-12, § II, 2-7-1989 approved at election on April 4, 1989]
§ C.5.5. Secrecy Regarding Identity Of Applicants.
   All examinations shall be conducted so that no examination paper will
disclose the name or identity of any applicant until all the examination answer
sheets shall have been graded. Any applicant in any examination who places any
identification mark upon his examination shall be deprived of all benefits
under such examination.
§ C.5.6. Explanation Of Questions.
   All necessary explanations of examination questions shall be made to the
whole class. No question shall be explained to any individual applicant.
§ C.5.7. Penalty For Withdrawal From Examination.
   Any applicant who withdraws from any examination or fails to complete the
entire examination after filling out his identification card and receiving
copies of the questions shall be considered as having failed in said
examination. The reason for such failure shall be stated on his record card.
§ C.5.8. Leaving Room During Examination.
   During the examination, no applicant will be permitted to leave the room in
which the examination is being conducted, except in case of extreme necessity
and then only after having handed in his papers on one subject and prior to his
having received the questions in the next subject.
§ C.5.9. Time Limit For Examination.
   The time limit prescribed for each examination, and for any special subject
of examination, shall be announced before the examination. Such examination
shall begin when all announcements have been made and questions distributed. No
variation of time limitation shall be allowed any applicant during any
particular examination.
§ C.5.10. Grading.
   a)   Each member of the Examining Board (composed of the Civil Service
Commission) shall place the grade he gives the applicant, on each subject, on a
separate blank, and at the end of the grading the three (3) grades on said
subject shall be averaged; this average shall be the final grade in said
subject. The Civil Service Commission shall establish a uniform method for
arriving at grades in all subjects; and each competitor or applicant shall be
uniformly graded on a scale of one hundred (100), according to the general
average determined by the markings, and the name of no competitor, who fails to
attain a general average of seventy per centum (70%) of complete proficiency in
the subjects of the examination, taken as a whole, shall be entered on the
register of eligibles for the Service.
   b)   In marking the subject of experience, the grade shall be given upon the
answers contained in the application blank, subject to the general regulations
contained in subdivision (a) of article V, section 10, of this amendment.
§ C.5.11. Fraud In Examination.
   Any person who shall, at any examination or in any document signed or
furnished by him in connection with any examination, by himself or in co-
operation with one or more persons, make any false representation regarding
himself or by allowing any other person to impersonate him, or who uses or aids
anyone in using any information surreptitiously obtained, or who uses or aids
another in using any memoranda whereby an advantage is obtained over other
competitors at such examination, shall be excluded from the examination, and
his name shall be stricken from any eligible list upon which it may appear;
provided, this penalty shall not be imposed until after the accused has been
given the opportunity to be heard, in his defense, in the matter prescribed in
article IX of this amendment, insofar as said procedure is applicable hereto.
§ C.5.12. Notice Of Standing.
   Within a reasonable time after the completion of an examination, each
applicant shall be notified of the general average he has attained on
examination.
§ C.5.13. Re-Examination.
   No person who has failed to pass an examination shall be re-examined within
six (6) months from the date of such failure. An applicant who has passed an
examination and been enrolled upon the register of eligibles, shall not be
again examined until one year from the date of such enrollment, and then only
upon withdrawal of his name from the register of eligibles and upon the filing
of a new application.
§ C.5.14. Review Of Examination Papers.
   No examination papers and no examination shall be subject to review by any
person after the posting of the eligible list, except that the Civil Service
Commission may correct mistakes committed by an examiner on the unanimous
consent of such Civil Service Commission; provided, however, that no such
correction shall be made after one year from the date of the posting of the
eligible register in which the mistake occurred; and provided further, that no
person who has been certified from said eligible register shall be disturbed
because of such correction.
ARTICLE VI. REGISTER OF ELIGIBLES
§ C.6.1. Enrollment.
   The Civil Service Commission shall prepare and keep a book, to be known as
the “Register of Eligibles,” in which shall be enrolled the names of all
persons who are eligible to appointment or to promotion in the Department of
Police under the proper classes, divisions, and grades. All applicants for any
position in the Department of Police who participated in a competitive
examination, and attained on such examination a general average standing of
seventy per centum (70%), or over, and who are otherwise eligible, shall take
rank and be enrolled upon the register as candidates for appointment to the
position for which they were examined, in the order of their relative
excellence as determined by examination, without reference to priority of time
of examination.
§ C.6.2. Striking Names From Register.
   The Civil Service Commission may strike the names of candidates from the
Register of Eligibles after they have remained thereon more than one year from
the date of their enrollment, without prejudice to the right of such candidate
or candidates to again make application in an effort to attain a higher state
of proficiency in such examination.
ARTICLE VII. FILLING VACANCIES
§ C.7.1. Requisition And Certification.
   When a vacancy is to be filled in the Department of Police, the appointing
officer shall make a requisition, upon a form prescribed by the Civil Service
Commission for the certification to him of the names of eligibles. The
appointing officer shall notify the Civil Service Commission of each position
to be filled separately. The Civil Service Commission shall, unless the place
is to be filled by reinstatement, certify to the appointing officer the name
and address of the candidate standing highest upon the register for the class,
division, or grade to which said position belongs, and such person shall be
appointed.
§ C.7.2. Waiver Of Certification Or Reinstatement.
   An eligible who has been certified or tendered reinstatement may waive said
certification or reinstatement, upon giving reasons satisfactory to the Civil
Service Commission, without losing his place upon the register. If the reason
assigned is not satisfactory to the Civil Service Commission, or the eligible
refuses to accept an appointment tendered, his name shall be removed from the
eligible register. All waivers must be filed with the Civil Service Commission
within five (5) days from the date of certification. In the absence of such
waiver, the name of the eligible next in order is certified in his place. If,
within thirty (30) days from the date of certification, the eligible so removed
furnishes to the Civil Service Commission good and sufficient reason for his
failure to report, he may be restored to the eligible list. But in the absence
of any such sufficient reason, his separation at the expiration of said thirty
(30) days shall be final.
§ C.7.3. Method Of Reinstatement.
   Subject to the provisions of article VII, and the general provisions
appearing in article X hereof, when a vacancy occurs in any department of the
Department of Police Service, the Civil Service Commission shall, before any
new certificate is made from an eligible register, reinstate in the same class,
division, and grade in which he was formerly employed, any person who has been
examined and appointed under these rules, and who has been temporarily
separated from the Department of Police Service, and the seniority of service
of such appointee shall be governed by the date of his original appointment.
§ C.7.4. Filling Of Vacancies.
   Vacancies in the Department of Police Service, if not filled by promotion as
herein otherwise provided, shall be filled by requisition and certification, as
provided in this amendment. The appointee shall be on probation for a period of
twelve (12) months. At the end of this period, if the conduct and capacity of
the person appointed has been satisfactory, the appointment shall be deemed
complete.
[Ord. No. 89-11, § II, 2-7-1989 approved at election on April 4, 1989]
§ C.7.5. Discharge During Probationary Period.
   If any appointee shall, during said probation period, be found incompetent,
or otherwise disqualified, for the performance of the duties of the position he
is filling, the Chief of the Department of Police, by and with the consent of
the Civil Service Commission, may discharge said appointee upon assigning in
writing to the Civil Service Commission the reasons therefor.
§ C.7.6. Temporary Appointments.
   To prevent the stoppage of public business, or to meet extraordinary
exigencies, the Chief of the Department of Police may, with the approval of the
Civil Service Commission, make temporary appointments to remain in force not to
exceed sixty (60) days, and only until a regular appointment can be made in
accordance with the procedure otherwise provided herein.
§ C.7.7. Removal From County.
   Removal of residence from the County of Garfield shall be cause for the
discharge of any person in the Department of Police Service.
§ C.7.8. Restoration Of Probationer.
   Should the work for which a probationer has been certified prove temporary,
and his services be discontinued, without fault or delinquency on his part,
before his time of probation is completed, his name shall be restored to its
proper position upon the Register of Eligibles, and the time he has served
shall be credited to him on his probationary period.
§ C.7.9. Assignment Of Duty.
   Any person appointed to, or promoted in, the Department of Police Service
shall be required to perform the duties of the position to which he has been
appointed or promoted.
§ C.7.10. Outside Employment.
   No employee of the Department of Police shall engage in any outside
occupation which shall interfere with the response to a call for emergency when
he is off duty.
ARTICLE VIII. PROMOTIONS
§ C.8.1. Method.
   Promotions in the Department of Police Service shall be made on the basis of
seniority in service and examination. All examinations for promotion shall be
competitive among such members of the next lower grade, or rank, as desire to
submit themselves to such examination; provided, however, that sergeants or
officers of higher rank shall be eligible to take examinations for any rank
higher than that in which they may be at the time of taking such examination.
§ C.8.2. Time Of Service.
   No patrol officer shall be examined for promotion for any grade in the
Department of Police until he has served at least four (4) years in the next
lower grade, and no sergeant shall be examined for promotion for any grade in
the department until he has served at least two (2) years in the next lower
grade. Captains and the rank immediately below captain and officers of higher
rank, after having passed an examination showing proper proficiency, are
eligible for promotion to any rank.
[Ord. No. 2002-55, §I, 12-17-2002 approved at election on March 4, 2003]
§ C.8.3. Method Of Examination.
   The method of examination and the rules governing the same shall be the same
as herein provided for applicants for original appointment.
§ C.8.4. Character Of Examination.
   Examinations for promotions shall be of the same general character as herein
provided for applicants for original appointment. Length of previous service,
and the efficiency of the applicant therein, shall be given due consideration.
In ascertaining such efficiency, the record of the applicant as to conduct
shown in the department in which he has served shall be considered.
§ C.8.5. Grading Of Examination.
   Each competitor shall be graded on a scale of one hundred (100), according
to the general average determined by the markings, and no competitor who fails
to attain a general average of seventy per centum (70%) of complete proficiency
in the subjects of the examination, taken as a whole, shall be deemed eligible
for promotion.
§ C.8.6. Priority Of Certification.
   In certifying from the registers for promotion, when two (2) or more
eligibles have the same general average, preference in certification shall be
given in order of seniority of service.
§ C.8.7. Making Of Certification.
   Upon requisition of the chief of the department of police, the civil service
commission shall certify the name of the person standing highest on the
promotion eligible register, and the chief of the department of police shall
appoint said person to the position; provided, however, that no person shall be
certified from a promotion list who has for one year next preceding the date of
the certification, separated himself from the service of the department of
police, or who has been removed therefrom upon charges brought and established
as provided in this amendment.
ARTICLE IX. REMOVAL FROM SERVICE
§ C.9.1. Generally.
   Charges against any person holding an office or place of employment in the
department of police service of the city of Enid may be filed by the chief or
head of the department in which the person against whom such charges are made
is employed, or by any other person.
   Such charge shall be investigated by or before the civil service commission.
All charges must be in writing, signed and duly verified by the person making
the same. No member of the department of police can be dismissed from service
until proven guilty of charges previously brought, in the manner hereinafter
provided.
[§ C.9.2. Hearing.
   The civil service commission shall cause notice, in writing, together with a
copy of all charges to be considered, to be personally served upon the accused,
or to be mailed to him at his address as shown by the records in the office of
the civil service commission, such notice to state the time, which shall not be
less than ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of such notice, and place
at which such charges will be investigated. The accused shall be given an
opportunity for a public hearing in his defense at such investigation.
§ C.9.3. Findings And Decision.
   The findings and decision of the civil service commission shall be certified
to the chief of the department of police, and shall be forthwith enforced by
him.
[§ C.9.4. Suspension.
   The chief of the department of police may, for good cause, suspend a
subordinate for a period of not to exceed thirty (30) days. In such case he
must forthwith notify the civil service commission in writing of the suspension
and the reason therefor.
[§ C.9.5. Political Activity.
   No person in the department of police service of the city of Enid, Oklahoma,
shall take any part in any political campaign, in the interest of any
candidate, save to exercise his right of franchise; and any member of said
department of police who, having been given an opportunity to be duly heard, as
in this act provided, shall be found to have violated any portion of this rule,
will be dismissed from the service. [Ord., 4-19-1937]
[Editor’s note:
   This section is illegal pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-101.1
and is not enforced.]
§ C.9.6. Specific Grounds For Discipline, And Authorized Punishments.
   The following shall be deemed specific cause for the suspension, under
charges, of any member of the department of police:
   1.   Intoxication while on or off active duty.
   2.   Being a user of intoxicating liquor to excess.
   3.   Being engaged directly or indirectly as a vendor of intoxicating
liquor.
   4.   Willful disobedience of any order lawfully issued to him by a superior
officer in the department of police.
   5.   Incompetency to perform the duties of his office.
   6.   Conviction of any crime, or misdemeanor, against the laws of the United
States or the laws of the state of Oklahoma, or conviction of any violation of
a lawful ordinance of the city of Enid.
   7.   Habitually contracting debts which he is unable or unwilling to pay, or
refusing, without reasonable excuse, to discharge his lawful obligations.
   8.   Conduct unbecoming to an officer, patrolman, or gentleman.
   9.   Conduct subversive to the good order and discipline of the department
of the police.
   10.   Willfully or continually violating any of the rules or regulations of
the department of police.
   The civil service commission, after a fair and impartial hearing, shall, if
the party under charges is found guilty, order any of the following actions
taken:
      1)   Fine of not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2)   Loss of vacation days; or suspension from duty, for not to exceed
sixty (60) days, without pay.
      3)   Reduction in rank of office.
      4)   Discharge from service.
[Ord., 4-19-1937]
[Editor’s note:
   The section number and catchline for the above section has been editorially
supplied; such section appeared after section 5 in the charter compilation
published in the city’s 1973 code under the caption “specified rules.”
Additionally, the specific causes for suspension, i.e., items “1” through “10”
above were designated in such charter compilation as sections 1--10.]
ARTICLE X. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ C.10.1. Reports, Lists, Etc.
   a)   If any office or place of employment is created or abolished, or the
compensation attached thereto altered, the officer or board making such change
shall immediately report the same in writing to the civil service commission.
   b)   A list, to be known as the civil list of the department of police of
the city of Enid, Oklahoma, shall be kept in the office of the civil service
commission, and shall contain the name of every person employed in, or
receiving compensation from, the department of police. The list shall show,
respecting every officer and employee: the title of office, or position, the
length of time the incumbent or employee has held the same, the salary or
compensation thereto attached, the length of time the incumbent or employee has
been in the service of the department of police of the city of Enid, and the
place in the service he has filled.
   c)   No payment in compensation of services rendered, after the taking
effect of this amendment, can be made by the city of Enid, or any of its
officers, to a person holding a position in the department of police service,
until it appears either that he was employed in such position at least ninety
(90) consecutive days, immediately preceding the adoption of this amendment, or
that he has been employed under the provisions of this act.
§ C.10.2. Resignations.
   Any officer or employee in the department of police service who tenders his
resignation to his superior officer shall not, after said resignation has been
accepted by the chief of the department of police and reported to the civil
service commission, be allowed to withdraw said resignation or be reinstated,
unless the application for such withdrawal is made within thirty (30) days
after the receipt of said report, and then only upon the recommendation of the
chief of the department of police and the consent of the civil service
commission.
§ C.10.3. Unauthorized Absences.
   Any officer or employee of the department of police service of this city,
who shall absent himself from duty for a period of ten (10) days without
permission in writing from the chief of the department of police, shall be
considered as having abandoned his employment and as having separated himself
from the service of the department of police. Such officer or employee may,
within thirty (30) days after such separation, make an application in writing
to the civil service commission for reinstatement, and the civil service
commission shall thereupon give him a hearing and may grant said reinstatement,
if it deems the same to be for the interest of the service. If said application
for reinstatement be refused, the separation shall be final, subject to the
right of appeal from the rulings of the civil service commission, as
hereinafter provided.
§ C.10.4. Leave Of Absence And Reinstatement.
   a)   Leave of absence without pay may be granted by the chief of the
department with the consent of the civil service commission, for the following
causes:
      1)   That an officer or employee may enter upon a course of study, or
engage in an investigation, calculated to improve the quality of his service.
      2)   If such officer or employee has some reason which, in the judgment
of the chief of the department of police, and the civil service commission, is
sufficient to constitute good reason for granting such leave of absence.
      3)   By the civil service commission, to those eligible, upon the request
of the chief of the department of police, for a period of thirty (30) days, or
more, not to exceed six (6) months, except in the case of an employee desiring
to attend an institution of higher learning, in which case the time limit shall
be one year.
   b)   Positions so vacated shall be filled either for the duration of the
leave, by substitution from the head of the eligible list, when an eligible
qualified to do the work is available; or by temporary appointment.
   c)   Leave of absence will not be granted during the probationary period, or
within ninety (90) days from the reinstatement of a former employee, except on
account of illness.
   d)   A vacation of fifteen (15) days, with full pay, shall be granted each
year to every member of the Enid department of police, who has been in said
service for a period of one full year.
§ C.10.5. Meetings Of The Civil Service Commission.
   Meetings of the civil service commission shall be held at the office of said
commission, when called by the president, or any two (2) members, or by the
mayor of the city of Enid. Written notice of the date, time, and object of the
meeting shall be mailed to each other member by the secretary, at least two (2)
days prior to the meeting. A majority of the civil service commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
[Editor’s note:
   These notice provisions have been superseded by the adoption of D.1.18 in
1989 that provides that the notice requirements of the open meeting act are
followed.]
§ C.10.6. Eligibility Of Civil Service Commission Members For Examinations;
Appointment Of Successors.
   If, at any time, any member of the civil service commission created by this
amendment shall desire to submit to any examination relative to admission to
the department of police service, or promotion therein, such member shall make
known to the commission his intention to take such examination and shall resign
from said commission, wholly severing all connection therewith, prior to the
date of the examination in which said member of the commission proposes to
compete. It shall be the duty of the mayor and commissioners of the city of
Enid to appoint a successor to said resigning commissioner immediately upon the
acceptance of such resignation, said successor to be appointed, qualify, and
assume his duties on the civil service commission prior to any preparation made
by the civil service commission with reference to the examination heretofore
mentioned.
§ C.10.7. Reduction In Force.
   In the event it becomes necessary to discontinue the services of any officer
or member of the department of police, because of congested conditions in the
service, or for any other cause not involving any fault or dereliction of such
officer or member justifying his removal for cause under the terms of this
amendment, seniority shall prevail.
§ C.10.8. Financial Support Of Civil Service Commission.
   The mayor and commissioners of the city of Enid are hereby authorized and
directed to make appropriations necessary for the payment of such expenses as
may be incurred by the civil service commission in putting into execution and
continuing in effect the provisions of this amendment.
ARTICLE XI. APPEALS
§ C.11.1. Generally.
   An appeal from any final action, decision, ruling, judgment, or order of the
civil service commission may be taken to the district court of Garfield County,
state of Oklahoma, by any person or persons, any taxpayer, officer, department,
board or bureau of the city of Enid, Oklahoma, jointly or severally aggrieved,
by filing with the secretary of the civil service commission, within thirty
(30) days, a notice of appeal, which notice shall specify the grounds of such
appeal. Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the secretary
of the civil service commission shall forthwith transmit to the court clerk of
the said district court the original, or certified copies, of all the papers
constituting the record in the case, together with the order, decision or
ruling of the civil service commission. Such case shall be heard and tried de
novo in the district court.
PART D. AMENDMENT NO. 7
CITY MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT
[Editor’s note:
   This part contains charter amendment no. 7, approved by the governor on
January 4, 1947. Such amendment did not create specific sections of the basic
charter, hence its inclusion as part D.]
ARTICLE I. OFFICERS
§ D.1.1. Rules Of Construction.
   Whenever in the constitution of the state of Oklahoma, or the laws thereof,
or in the present ordinances of the city of Enid, hereby continued in force,
reference is made to the “mayor” or to the “chief executive officer” of the
city, such reference shall be deemed made to the mayor under the new form of
government under this amendment; and whenever in the said constitution, laws or
ordinances, reference is made to the “city board” or to the “mayor and
council,” or to the “mayor and councilman,” or to the “legislative body” of the
city, such reference shall be deemed made to the Board of Commissioners of the
city.
§ D.1.2. Composition Of Mayor And Board Of Commissioners.
   The Board of Commissioners of the city of Enid shall consist of one
commissioner from each ward as now constituted, and shall be candidates from
and elected by their respective wards. Each commissioner shall be a resident
citizen of the ward from which he is a candidate at the time of his candidacy
and election. The mayor and Board of Commissioners shall constitute the
governing body of the city. The mayor shall be a candidate at large and elected
at large.
§ D.1.3. Qualifications For Mayor And Commissioners.
   Any elector of the state of Oklahoma, twenty five (25) years of age, and who
at the time of the election shall be, and for the two (2) years next preceding
such election shall have been, a resident in good faith of the city of Enid,
shall be qualified for the office of mayor or commissioner.
§ D.1.4. Commissioners; How Elected And Term Of Office.
   The commissioners elected under this amended charter from the respective
wards of the city shall serve for a term of four (4) years, beginning on the
first Monday in May following their election, and until their successors are
elected and have qualified. Each commissioner shall give bond to the city in
the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his duties, and the premium on such bond shall be paid by the
city. All such bonds shall be executed by a reliable surety company duly
authorized to do business in Oklahoma and approved by the county treasurer of
Garfield County. No person shall be eligible to serve as commissioner, mayor or
as an elective official of the city of Enid for more than eight (8) years in
succession; provided, however, that no time served by appointment or election
to fill a vacancy in an unexpired term shall be considered as a part of said
eight (8) years.
[Amendment approved by the governor, 5-1-1961; Ord. 2002-50 §I, 12-17-2002,
approved at election on March 4, 2003]
§ D.1.5. Mayor; How Chosen And Term Of Office.
   The mayor shall be elected at large and shall serve as mayor beginning on
the first Monday in May following his election, for the term of four (4) years,
and until his successor is elected and qualified.
[Ord. 2002-50 §I, 12-17-2002, approved at election on March 4, 2003]
§ D.1.6. Filling Of Vacancies.
   Vacancies in the office of mayor and commissioners shall be filled by the
Board of Commissioners until the next general municipal election at which time
the electors of the city must elect some person to fill the unexpired term, but
any vacancies from recall election shall be filled in the manner provided in
such cases; provided further, that a residence change of any commissioner from
the ward in which he was elected shall constitute vacancy in such office.
[Amendment approved by the governor, 7-7-1955; Ord. 2002-50 §I, 12-17-2002,
approved at election on March 4, 2003]
§ D.1.7. Legislative Authority; Voting; Veto; Minutes; Emergency Measures.
   All legislative authority is hereby vested in the mayor and Board of
Commissioners. The mayor and commissioners will each have one vote on the
board; and the mayor shall have no veto power, but shall forthwith, without
discretion, approve all ordinances and resolutions adopted by a majority vote
of the Board of Commissioners. All ordinances and resolutions shall be entered
in the minutes, and no ordinance or resolution shall become operative until
thirty (30) days after its passage, approval, and publication except in cases
of emergency measures; and no such emergency measure shall become immediately
operative unless it shall state in a separate section the reason why it is
necessary that it should become immediately operative, and the question of
emergency shall be ruled upon separately and approved by the affirmative vote
of not less than five (5) members of the mayor and Board of Commissioners; and
emergency measures so adopted and approved shall take effect and be in force
from and after their passage, approval, and publication.
§ D.1.8. Meetings; Notice; Quorum; Compensation.
   The Board of Commissioners shall hold at least one public meeting in each
month at the city hall at an hour to be designated by resolution, and such
special or adjourned meetings as may be called. Such special meetings of the
Board of Commissioners may be called by the mayor, or by any two (2) of the
commissioners, or by the city manager, upon twelve (12) hours’ written notice
to each member of the board, and the city manager, served personally on each,
or left at his residence in the city, with some member of his family not less
than fifteen (15) years of age; provided, that the appearance of any member of
the board at any such special meeting of the board, shall be a waiver of such
notice. All meetings of the Board of Commissioners shall be public, and a
journal of the proceedings kept by the city clerk, and any citizen shall have
access to the minutes of the meetings and all records of the city’s business.
The city manager shall attend all meetings of the board and may take part in
the discussion, but shall have no vote on the Board of Commissioners. A
majority of the board shall constitute a quorum and the mayor shall preside at
the meetings. In case he is absent, the board may elect from their number an
acting mayor for the period of such absence. The mayor and each commissioner
shall serve without compensation for their services.
[Editor’s note:
   These notice provisions have been superseded by the adoption of Part D,
Article I §18 in 1989 that provides that the open meeting act shall be
followed.]
§ D.1.9. Appointments By Mayor And Commissioners.
   The mayor and commissioners shall select and employ a city auditor or
auditors, either on part time, contract, or full time basis as they may deem
necessary, who shall work with the city manager in the preparation of his
financial reports, estimates and budgets, and who shall make such additional
audits and reports as the board may require. Such auditor or auditors may be
discharged only by a majority vote of the mayor and the Board of Commissioners.
They shall be paid such compensation as may be determined by the mayor and the
board.
   The mayor and commissioners shall appoint the city attorney and the members
of all boards and commissions; provided, however, that no person shall serve
more than one term in succession as a member of any civil service commission
after the adoption of this section.
[Amendment approved by the governor, 7-7-1955]
§ D.1.10. Oath Of Office.
   Officers of the city shall, before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices, take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by the
constitution of the state of Oklahoma, and file the same in the office of the
city clerk.
§ D.1.11. Continuation In Office.
   All officers and employees not holding office under the civil service
provisions of the charter and its amendments of the city of Enid, shall hold
their respective offices without change of compensation until the officers
provided in this amended charter are elected and qualified under the amended
charter, at which time their respective terms of office or appointments, as the
case may be, shall end; except that appointive employees may continue to hold
office until their successors are appointed as provided herein.
§ D.1.12. City Manager; Appointment; Qualifications; Removal; Hearing.
   The mayor and commissioners elected under this amendment to the charter
shall qualify as such respectively on the second Monday after their election,
and immediately after they have qualified, the commissioners shall convene and
proceed to employ and appoint a city manager, who shall be the administrative
head of the municipal government. The city manager so employed shall be
appointed without regard to his political belief, and may or may not be a
resident of the city of Enid when appointed, but shall reside in the city of
Enid during his term of office. He shall hold office at the will of the Board
of Commissioners, and be subject to removal by majority vote of the board at
any time. Provided however, that at least thirty (30) days before such removal
shall become effective, the board shall, by a majority vote of its members,
adopt a preliminary resolution stating the reason for his removal. The manager
may reply in writing and may request a public hearing, which shall be held not
earlier than twenty (20) days nor less than thirty (30) days after the filing
of such request. After such public hearing, if one be requested, and after full
consideration, the board by majority vote of its members may adopt a final
resolution of removal. By the preliminary resolution the board may suspend the
manager from duty, but shall in any case cause to be paid him forthwith any
unpaid balance of his salary up to, and including, the date of his removal.
§ D.1.13. Powers And Duties Of City Manager.
   The powers and duties of the city manager shall be:
   a)   To prepare and submit to the Board of Commissioners the annual budget.
   b)   He shall see to the faithful execution of all laws and ordinances of
the city and state.
   c)   He shall appoint all officers, boards, commissions, and employees of
the city of Enid, whose appointment is not specifically reserved to the mayor
and the Board of Commissioners by this amendment, except the municipal judge,
who shall be appointed as provided by law, and except those civil service
employees, whose selection is otherwise provided by the civil service
provisions of the city charter. No person, however, shall be eligible to serve
as a member of any civil service commission who holds any other public office,
except that the secretary of such commission may be an officer of the
department coming under the supervision of such commission. Provided, however,
that no person shall hold an appointive position or employment in the pay of
the city, under civil service or otherwise, who is related by blood or marriage
within the third degree to either of the commissioners, mayor or to the city
manager; provided, further that this nepotism restriction shall not apply to
any person within the prohibited degree who has held an appointive position or
employment in the pay of the city for two (2) years or more prior to the taking
of office of any commissioner, mayor or city manager to whom said person is
related within the prohibited degree.
   d)   He shall have power to dismiss any officer or employee appointed by him
when in his judgment the interest of city service so requires, except as
otherwise provided by the civil service provision of the city charter.
   e)   He shall direct and control the several officers and departments of the
city administration, except where otherwise provided in this charter.
   f)   He shall attend all meetings of the Board of Commissioners and may take
part in the discussion, but shall have no vote.
   g)   He shall keep the Board of Commissioners advised of all the needs of
the city and shall recommend suitable measures for adoption.
   h)   He shall see to it that the city lives within its budget.
   i)   He shall perform all such other duties as may be imposed upon him by
charter or by ordinance.
[Amendment approved by the governor, 7-7-1955]
[Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of ord. 91-07, adopted February 5, 1991, added § 20 to Article. 1
of Part D relative to nepotism which supersedes the pertinent conflicting part
of § 13(c). See § D.1.20 for further information.]
§ D.1.14. Salary Of City Manager.
   The city manager shall receive such salary as may be agreed upon and fixed
by the mayor and Board of Commissioners.
§ D.1.15. Appointment And Removal Procedure; Penalty.
   Neither the mayor nor any commissioner shall recommend any appointment or
removal to be made by the manager except upon request of the manager; and
except for the purpose of inquiry the board and its members shall deal with the
administrative service solely through the city manager, and neither the mayor,
the board, nor any member thereof, shall give orders to any subordinate of the
city manager, either publicly or privately. The mayor or any board member
violating the provisions of this section, or voting for a resolution or
ordinance in violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall cease to be a member of the Board of
Commissioners.
§ D.1.16. City Manager’s Bond; Financial Reports.
   The city manager shall, before entering upon the discharge of his duties,
enter into an undertaking, with the city, secured by some reliable surety
company, in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), and in such
additional sum and undertaking as the board may from time to time in their
discretion, require, said undertaking or undertakings to be approved by the
Board of Commissioners, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of his office and for faithfully accounting for and paying over to said
city of Enid all city funds received or collected by him. The said city manager
shall require any appointive officer or employee of the city whose duties
involve the handling of city money, to give bond to the city, secured by some
reliable surety company, and approved by the Board of Commissioners, in such
amounts as the board may deem necessary for the faithful performance of all
duties of and the accounting for and payments by such appointive officer or
employee of all city funds received by him. The premium for all bonds required
and authorized under this section shall be paid out of the funds of the city.
The city manager shall make a quarterly report in writing to the city
commissioners, or more frequently if requested, covering the receipt and
disbursement of funds and proceedings of the affairs of the city, and a
condensed quarterly report which said quarterly report shall be immediately
published in some newspaper of general circulation in the city and shall be
preserved among the records of the city.
§ D.1.17. Park Board.
   There shall be a board of park commissioners consisting of three (3) members
to be appointed by the city manager who shall hold their positions during the
pleasure of said city manager; and except as herein otherwise provided and
until the commissioners shall otherwise provide by ordinance, the rights,
powers and duties of said board of park commissioners shall be as now declared
and defined by the laws of the state of Oklahoma, as now existing or hereafter
enacted, relative to park boards in cities of the first class.
[Editor’s Note:
   This section has been superseded by the second paragraph of Section D.1.9 of
the Charter, which was added in 1955.]
§ D.1.18. Oklahoma Open Meeting Act And Oklahoma Open Records Act Govern.
   The city and all of its boards, commissions, agencies, authorities and
public trusts shall be governed by the Oklahoma open meeting act (Oklahoma
Statutes title 25, section 301 et seq.) and the Oklahoma open records act
(Oklahoma Statutes title 51, section 24A.1 et seq.), and as said statutes may
be hereinafter amended. These acts shall supersede all local rules, ordinances
and charter provisions providing for any different standard or regulation.
[Ord. 89-9 § II, 2-7-1989, approved at election on April 4, 1989]
§ D.1.19. Public Competitive Bidding Act Of 1974.
   All public construction contracts made for the purpose of making any public
improvements or constructing any public building or making repairs to same, and
all contracts pertaining to the maintenance of public property shall be let and
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, by free and open competitive bidding
after solicitation for sealed bids, in strict accordance with all the
provisions of the state of Oklahoma’s public competitive bidding act of 1974
(title 61 Oklahoma Statutes, section 101 et seq.) and as said statutes may be
hereinafter amended. This act shall supersede all local rules, ordinances and
charter provisions providing for any different standard or regulation.
[Ord. 91-05 § I, 1-15-1991, approved at election on April 2, 1991]
§ D.1.20. Nepotism.
   No elected or appointed official or other authority of the municipal
government shall appoint or elect any person related by affinity or
consanguinity within the third degree to any governing body member or to
himself or, in the case of a plural authority, to any one of its members to any
office or position of profit in the municipal government. The provisions of
this section shall not prohibit an officer or employee already in the service
of the municipality from continuing such service or from promotion therein.
This act shall supersede all local rules, ordinances and charter provisions
providing for any different standard or regulation.
[Ord. 91-07 § I, 2-5-1991, approved at election on April 2, 1991]
ARTICLE II. ELECTIONS
§ D.2.1. Election Board.
   All elections for mayor and commissioners shall be conducted by the
regularly lawfully constituted election board of Garfield County, Oklahoma.
§ D.2.2. Time Of Election.
   On the first Tuesday in February in the year 2007 and each four (4) years
thereafter, and on the first Tuesday in February in the year 2009 and each four
(4) years thereafter, there shall be held a general election conducted at the
regular voting places within the city of Enid, for the election of those
elected officials whose terms of office expire in said year or years under the
provisions of this charter.
[Ord. 2004-44, 12-21-2004, approved at an election on March 1, 2005.]
§ D.2.3. Determination Of Name Of Candidate; Required Information.
   The method of determining the name of a candidate entitled to be placed upon
the official ballot at said election mentioned in section 2 of this article,
for the office of mayor, or members of the Board of Commissioners of the city
of Enid, shall be as follows: Candidates may have their names printed on the
ballot as a candidate for an office to be filled under the provisions of this
charter at any city election held for the purpose of electing the officers
mentioned in this amendment, by filing with the county election board a
statement signed by him stating his name as he desires it to appear on the
ballot in the general election, the name of the office for which he is a
candidate, together with his street address. If a candidate for the office of
commissioner, he shall state that he is now a resident of the ward which he
seeks to represent on said board, and has been a resident of the city of Enid
for two (2) years next preceding date of filing said statement. In case of a
candidate for mayor, in addition to stating the name of the office for which he
is a candidate, together with his name and street address, said statement shall
contain a paragraph in which the candidate shall assert that he is now and has
been for two (2) years next preceding the date of filing said statement, a
resident in good faith of the city of Enid, Oklahoma. Said statement in the
case of candidate for mayor and commissioner, when so signed shall be filed
with the secretary of the Garfield County election board no earlier than 8:00
A.M. on the first Monday in December of the year preceding the municipal
general election and no later than 5:00 P.M. on the next succeeding Wednesday.
[When a candidate’s name is presented as provided herein, it shall be placed on
the official ballot for said election mentioned in section 2 of this article.]
When such candidate is unopposed, his name shall not appear on the ballot and a
certificate of election shall be issued him.
[Ord. 2004-44, approved at an election on March 1, 2005]
§ D.2.4. Ballots; Requirements.
   The Garfield County election board shall prepare the ballots for said
election and such ballots shall contain no emblems, devices, parts or signs
which would in any manner indicate to which political party any candidate
belongs. Said ballot shall be strictly nonpartisan.
   The day after the closing of the filing period for candidates, and the day
after the general election if a runoff election is necessary, the secretary of
the Garfield County election board shall prepare numbered lots in an amount
reflecting the number of candidates for each office and every candidate for
each respective office shall select a numbered lot which shall determine the
order of that candidate’s name on the ballot.
[Ord. 83-7, approved at election on 4-5-1983; Ord. 91-02 § I, 1-15-1991,
approved at election on April 2, 1991]
§ D.2.5. Conduct Of Elections; Certificate Of Election.
   In addition to the preparation of said ballot the said Garfield County
election board shall conduct said election in all respects as other elections
provided for by the general laws and constitution of the state of Oklahoma. A
certificate of each candidate’s vote shall be made as in such laws provided;
the ballot boxes shall be sealed as therein provided, and said ballot and
ballot boxes shall be disposed of as provided by the general election laws of
the state. Said election board shall cause to be issued to the successful
candidate or candidates, that is to say the candidates for commissioner from
each ward receiving the largest number of votes for the office for which he is
a candidate, and the candidate for mayor receiving the largest number of votes
for the office for which he is a candidate, proper certificates or certificate
of election; provided, however, if no candidate receives more than fifty
percent (50%) of the votes cast in the general election, a runoff election
between the two (2) candidates with the highest number of votes shall be
conducted on the first Tuesday in April of that year.
[Ord. 91-02 § I, 1-15-1991, approved at election on April 2, 1991]
§ D.2.6. Applicable Laws.
   All provisions of the general election laws of the state of Oklahoma, where
applicable, and except where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
herein made, shall apply to all municipal elections held in the city of Enid.
§ D.2.7. Alternative Laws.
   In the event that the foregoing provisions or any of them should be for any
reason held void or for any reason shall become inoperative, then the election
laws of the state of Oklahoma shall govern all elections for municipal officers
within the city of Enid insofar as said special provisions fail.
§ D.2.8. Certain Actions Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any candidate for office or any officer or employee
of the city to give or promise to give to any person or persons, directly or
indirectly, any office, position, employment, benefit, or anything of value for
the purpose of influencing or obtaining support, political or otherwise, aid or
vote of any person or persons; the doing of any of which things shall be
grounds for removal from office of such officer, employee or candidate if
elected.
§ D.2.9. Petitions And Filing Fees.
   A declaration of candidacy must be accompanied by a petition supporting a
candidate’s filing signed by five percent (5%) of the registered voters
eligible to vote for a candidate in the general election wherein the
candidate’s name would appear on the ballot, as reflected by the latest January
15th registration report; or by a cashier’s check or certified check in the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) filed with the secretary of the county
election board.
   Said check shall be forfeited to the election board and proceeds therefrom
shall be used by said board to defray election expenses unless the candidate is
unopposed in the general election, becomes a candidate in the runoff election,
or receives more than fifteen percent (15%) of the votes cast for the office
for which he is a candidate at the first election wherein his name appears on a
ballot, in which case said check shall be returned to the candidate
immediately.
[Ord. 91-06 § I, 1-15-1991, approved at election on April 2, 1991.]
ARTICLE III. REPEAL OF CHARTER PROVISIONS
§ D.3.1. Repealed Sections.
   Article II, sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9; article IV, sections 2, 3, 6, 8,
9, 10, 11; article VII, sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; article VIII, sections 18, 26,
27, 28, 29, 30 of the charter of Enid, and all articles, sections, and
provisions of the said charter, amendments thereto, and ordinances, of the city
of Enid, to the extent only that any provision thereof is in conflict with this
amendment, are hereby repealed.
§ D.3.2. Effective Date.
   For the preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency is
hereby declared to exist so that this ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage, approval and publication.
PART E. UNION ORGANIZATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
[Editor’s note:
   This part contains charter amendment no. 17, approved by the governor on
January 6, 2014. Such amendment did not create specific sections of the basic
charter, hence its inclusion as part E.]
ARTICLE I. UNION ORGANIZATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES
§ E.1.1. Right To Organize And Bargain Collectively.
   In order to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizenry
by promoting good labor relations, the city of Enid hereby extends the right to
organize and bargain collectively to all non-supervisory, non-management
confidential city employees. All such rights granted by this article, and
ordinances enacted thereunder and procedures and activities used in the
implementation of these rights shall be governed by the laws of the state of
Oklahoma. The city council shall enact ordinances to effectuate the intent and
express provisions of this article.
§ E.1.2. Recognition Of Bargaining Unit.
   The city commissioners shall recognize, subject to the provisions of this
charter and relevant ordinances, a bargaining unit of city employees for the
purpose of bargaining collectively with the city of Enid with respect to wages,
salaries, hours, rates of pay, grievances, working conditions and other terms
and conditions of employment.
§ E.1.3. Strikes Prohibited.
   In order to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizenry, the right to strike or to engage in any work stoppage or slowdown is
hereby expressly prohibited. “Strike” means, in concerted action with others,
an employee’s refusal to report to duty or wilful absence from one’s position,
or abstaining in whole or in part from the full, faithful and proper
performance of the duties of employment for the purpose of inducing,
influencing or coercing a change in the conditions, compensation, rights,
privileges or obligations of employment.
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
1.    MUNICIPAL CODE
      
2.    SAVING CLAUSE
      
3.    DEFINITIONS
      
4.    GENERAL PENALTY
      
5.    CITY SEAL, LEGISLATION AND RECORDS
      
6.    WARDS AND ELECTIONS
      
7.    IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
      
8.    BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
9.    CITY DEPARTMENTS
      
10.    PUBLIC RECORDS
      
11.    RESERVED
      
12.    DISCRIMINATION AND RACIAL PROFILING
      
13.    LABOR RELATIONS FOR NON-MANAGEMENT, NON-MANAGEMENT/CONFIDENTIAL AND
NONCONFIDENTIAL CITY EMPLOYEES
      
14.    LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
      
15.    SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 1: MUNICIPAL CODE
Section
   
1-1-1   Enid Municipal Code 2024
   
1-1-2   Acceptance
   
1-1-3   Territorial applicability
   
1-1-4   Amendments
   
1-1-5   Supplementation of code
   
1-1-6   Code alterations
§ 1-1-1 ENID MUNICIPAL CODE 2024.
   Upon the adoption by the City Council, this city code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Enid. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the “Enid Municipal Code 2024”
and is hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided
in §
1-1-5. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this city code by title in
any legal documents.
§ 1-1-2 ACCEPTANCE.
   The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
1-2-1.
§ 1-1-3 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the
territorial limits of the City and to that territory outside the City over
which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or
charter provisions, or any law.
§ 1-1-4 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code.
§ 1-1-5 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   Preparation and printing. By contract or by city personnel,
supplements to this code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or
directed by the City Council. A supplement to the code shall include all
substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the City
Council or adopted by initiative during the period covered by the supplement
and all changes made thereby in the code, and shall also include all amendments
to the charter during the period. The pages of the supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   Exclusion of repealed portions. In preparing a supplement to this
code, all portions of the code which have been repealed shall be excluded from
the code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
   (C)   Nonsubstantive changes authorized. When preparing a supplement to this
code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to
prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances
and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary
to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections or
subsections;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subsections of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subsections to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subsection numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this article”, “this section” as the case may be or to
“sections _____ to _____” , (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections
of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated
into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 1-1-6 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the City to be misrepresented thereby; provided
that supplementation of this code, as provided for in §
1-1-5, by authorized persons shall be permitted.
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
   
1-2-1   Repeal of general ordinances
   
1-2-2   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
1-2-3   Provisions as continuation of existing ordinances
   
1-2-4   Effect of repeal of ordinances; revival
   
1-2-5   Severability clause
§ 1-2-1 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the ordinances
enumerated in §
1-2-2.
§ 1-2-2 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be construed
to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
   (A)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
City, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of
the City’s indebtedness;
   (B)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for the levy of
taxes or for an annual budget;
   (C)   Any ordinance creating specific sewer and paving districts and other
local improvement or special assessment districts or otherwise relating to
specific local improvements and special assessments therefor;
   (D)   Any ordinance calling or otherwise relating to specific elections;
   (E)   Any ordinance defining, extending or contracting the corporate limits
of the City;
   (F)   Any ordinance granting any right or franchise;
   (G)   Any ordinance authorizing or approving specific contracts;
   (H)   Any ordinance vacating, opening or naming streets or alleys;
   (I)   Any ordinance relating to retirement or pension benefits for city
officers and employees; provided, however, that this subsection (I) shall not
apply to ordinances dealing exclusively with pensions or retirement for members
of the Fire or Police Departments;
   (J)   Any ordinance relating to subdivisions or zoning;
   (K)   Any ordinance the purpose of which has been accomplished;
   (L)   Any ordinance which is temporary, although general in effect; or
   (M)   Any ordinance which is special although permanent in effect.
§ 1-2-3 PROVISIONS AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
ordinance provisions previously adopted by the City relating to the same
subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
§ 1-2-4 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES; REVIVAL.
   (A)   Effect. Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal hereby of any
ordinance of the City shall in any manner affect the prosecution for violation
of ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the effective date
hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of any license or penalty at the effective
date due and unpaid under such ordinance, nor be construed as affecting any of
the provisions of such ordinance relating to the collection of any such license
or penalty or the penal provisions applicable to any violation thereof, nor to
affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof, required to be
posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance, and all rights and
obligations thereof appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.
   (B)   Revival. Whenever any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause
or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to
revive such former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be therein
so expressly provided.
(1994 Code, § 1-8)
§ 1-2-5 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold one or more sections or a
part of a section of this code or of an ordinance passed hereafter invalid,
such holding shall not affect the remainder of the code or ordinance nor the
context in which such section, sections or part of a section so held invalid
may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of a section
may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with the section, sections
or part of a section so held invalid.
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
1-3-1   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1-3-2   Titles of chapters, articles and sections
   
1-3-3   History notes
§ 1-3-1 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of the City Charter, city code and of all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the City Council, the following definitions and rules
shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the City Council.
   CHARTER, CITY CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Enid.
   CITY. The City of Enid, in Garfield County, Oklahoma.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected or appointed Mayor and Board of Commissioners of
the City.
   CODE. Reference to THIS CODE or THE CODE shall mean the Enid City Code, as
designated in §
1-1-1 .
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day is
a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall not be counted in the
COMPUTATION.
   COUNTY. Garfield County, Oklahoma.
   DIRECT OR INDIRECT FINANCIAL INTEREST. Only the interest which would be
prohibited by 11 O.S. § 8-113 or as such statute may be hereinafter amended.
   GENDER. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males. A title of a position that ends in man, such as “chairman”, applies to
females as well as males.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the City. Also
referred to as City Council.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Any authorized representative of the County Health
Department.
   HERETOFORE and HEREAFTER. Whenever the word HERETOFORE appears in any
ordinance, it shall be construed to mean any time previous to the day when that
ordinance shall take effect; whenever the word HEREAFTER appears, it shall be
construed to mean the time after the ordinance shall take effect.
   HIGHWAY. Includes any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or
square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, underpass, overpass or causeway in the City,
dedicated or devoted to public use.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
   MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY. For the purposes of § A.8.6 of the City
Charter, the term shall mean any maintenance or repair contract on or for any
public improvement, including, but not limited to, contracts for the
maintenance or repair of streets, alleys, sidewalks, storm sewers, water and
sanitary sewer lines and plant facilities. The term does not include the direct
purchases of materials, equipment or supplies used by the City to maintain or
repair public improvements.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUST. Is mandatory.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. All words and phrases shall be construed
and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language.
TECHNICAL WORDS AND PHRASES and such others as may have acquired a peculiar or
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
peculiar or appropriate meaning.
   NUMBER. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural and
any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the words “swear” and “sworn”
shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed.”
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, whenever any officer, department, board, commission or other agency
is referred to by title alone, such reference shall be construed as if followed
by the words “of the City of Enid, Oklahoma”.
   OR, AND. OR may be read “and”, and AND may be read “or”, if the sense
requires it.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to associations, corporations, firms,
partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Whenever used with respect to any penalty, the word PERSON, as applied to
partnerships or associations, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and
as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every specie of property, except real property
as herein defined.
   PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes personal, real and mixed property.
   PUBLIC GROUNDS, PUBLIC PROPERTY or PUBLIC PLACES. Any park or open place
adjacent thereto, any lake or stream, any and every public ground, public
square, public park, street or sidewalk, or other public place within the City.
PUBLIC PROPERTY shall include any and all interests in property held by the
City.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any beneficial or valuable change or addition,
betterment, enhancement or amelioration of or upon any real property or
interest therein, belonging to a public agency, intended to enhance its value,
beauty or utility or to adapt it to a new or future purpose. The term does not
include the direct purchases of materials, equipment or supplies by a public
agency.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes land together with all things attached to the land
so as to become a part thereof and all rights thereto and interest therein.
   SHALL; MAY. The word SHALL is mandatory and the word MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line of
the roadway, and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Shall include a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES. Reference to the statutes of the state means the
statutes as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   STREET. Includes any highway, alley, street, avenue or public place, square,
bridge, viaduct, underpass, overpass, tunnel or causeway in the City, dedicated
or devoted to public use.
   TENANT; OCCUPANT. These terms, applied to a building or land, shall include
any person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a
part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
   TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense shall include the future as
well as the past and present, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Include any representations of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 1-3-2 TITLES OF CHAPTERS, ARTICLES AND SECTIONS.
   All titles of chapters and articles, and all catchlines of sections and
subsections of this code are unofficial and intended only for convenience in
arrangement and as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the chapters,
articles, sections and subsections. They shall not be deemed to be part of the
contents of the chapters, articles, sections or subsections, nor shall the
titles and catchlines alter the otherwise intended meaning of any provision of
this code.
§ 1-3-3 HISTORY NOTES.
   The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this code are
not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the
source of matter contained in the section.
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
1-4-1   Penalties for violations
   
1-4-2   Application of provisions
   
1-4-3   Liability of officers
§ 1-4-1 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Penalties imposed. Whenever in this code or in any other ordinance of
the City, or in any rule, regulation or order promulgated by any officer or
agency of the City under authority duly vested in him, or it, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or the doing of an act is required, or the failure to do any act
is declared to be unlawful, or an offense or a misdemeanor, the violation of
any such provisions of this code or any other ordinance of the City or such
rule, regulation or order shall be punished as indicated in the applicable code
section.
   (B)   Absence of penalty. In the absence of any penalty being specified in
an applicable code section, an offense shall be punishable by a fine of $200
plus costs.
   (C)   Limitation; compliance with state statute. The provisions of
subsections (A) and (B) above notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than
that established by state statute for the same offense.
   (D)   Separate offense for each day. Except as otherwise provided, every day
any violation of this code or any other ordinance of the City or any rule,
regulation or order shall continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Subsequent offense. Whenever in this code, an offense provides an
enhanced punishment for a second or subsequent offense, this language shall be
interpreted to require a conviction of the previous offense prior to the
imposition of the enhanced punishment. A conviction for this section does not
include those offenses for which a person received a deferred sentence and the
charge was later dismissed by the court.
§ 1-4-2 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   (B)   Acts punishable under different sections. In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
§ 1-4-3 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
CHAPTER 5: CITY SEAL, LEGISLATION AND RECORDS
Section
   
1-5-1   Seal established; use
   
1-5-2   City and public trusts authorized
   
1-5-3   Compliance with local, state and federal regulations
   
1-5-4   Protection of public health and safety
   
1-5-5   Fees imposed; exceptions
   
1-5-6   Posting of fee schedule
   
1-5-7   Retention of security video recordings at city property
§ 1-5-1 SEAL ESTABLISHED; USE.
   (A)   Superscription. The City hereby adopts as a superscription for the
corporate seal of the City, the following: “The City of Enid, State of
Oklahoma, Official Seal”.
   (B)   Engraving. The seal of the City shall be made of metal in circular
form, and the words, “The City of Enid, State of Oklahoma”, shall be engraved
in circular form near the circumference of the face thereof, and inside of the
face the words “Official Seal”.
   (C)   Use of seal. The seal made and engraved pursuant to subsections (A)
and (B) above shall be the corporate seal of the City and shall be used as such
for the authentication of all documents required to be sealed with the seal of
the City.
§ 1-5-2 CITY AND PUBLIC TRUSTS AUTHORIZED.
   The City and any public trust with the City as beneficiary are hereby
authorized:
   (A)   Support state and national policies. To endorse and support state and
national policies, legislation and programs which may be beneficial and to
oppose such as may be injurious to the City. The City or trusts may endorse,
support or oppose such policies, legislation and programs by a duly approved
resolution approved by a majority of the public body present at a regular or
special meeting;
   (B)   Legislative liaison. To appoint an employee of the City or trust and/
or contract to provide legislative liaison services with the state legislature
and/or United States Congress. The legislative liaison shall assist the City or
appropriate trust in identifying positive and negative legislative actions
affecting the City, proposing amendments to bills affecting the City,
developing legislative strategies as they relate to the City Council goals and
priorities and the long range strategic plan for economic recovery of the City
and perform all other services and duties as set out in the respective job
description of such employee and/or appropriate contract; and
   (C)   Litigation at District Court or appellate level. To join with other
cities, towns and state and national municipal associations and leagues as a
means for collective action in the exercise of their governmental and
proprietary functions, including, but not limited to, instituting or joining in
litigation at the District Court or appellate level.
§ 1-5-3 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance required. All duties and activities performed by the City
Council, trustees of any public trust or legislative liaison authorized by this
chapter shall be in accordance with all local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
   (B)   Use of public funds. Public funds may be used to pay necessary and
reasonable salaries, costs and expenses for such activities and services.
§ 1-5-4 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   All actions taken under the terms of this chapter shall be necessary to
protect the public health, public safety and comfort of the residents of the
City.
§ 1-5-5 FEES IMPOSED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Payment of fee; exceptions. Persons desiring copies of ordinances and
other public records of the City shall pay to the Director of Finance the fee
provided for in §
2-6A-1. This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Complete copies of this code;
      (2)   Copies of chapters or similar parts of this code which have been
prepared in booklet form; or
      (3)   Ordinances which have been prepared in booklet form; provided
another fee has been established for same.
   (B)   Search fee.
      (1)   If the request for copies of public records is solely for
commercial purposes or clearly would cause excessive disruption of the public
body’s essential functions, then the fee provided in §
2-6A-1(B) will be charged and paid to recover the direct cost of document
search.
      (2)   In no case shall a search fee be charged when the release of said
documents is in the public interest, including, but not limited to, release to
the news media, scholars, authors and taxpayers seeking to determine whether
those entrusted with the affairs of the government are honestly, faithfully and
competently performing their duties as public servants.
§ 1-5-6 POSTING OF FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City Clerk shall post a copy of the fee schedule on the public bulletin
board in the administration building and with the County Clerk.
§ 1-5-6 RETENTION OF SECURITY VIDEO RECORDINGS AT CITY PROPERTY.
   Digital video recordings from security cameras at city property are retained
until the storage media capacity limitations on said digital cameras are
exceeded and the recordings are automatically deleted to make room for new
recordings.
(Ord. 2020-13, passed 7-7-2020)
CHAPTER 6: WARDS AND ELECTIONS
Section
   
1-6-1   Wards established
   
1-6-2   Absentee ballots
   
1-6-3   Recall of elected officials
   
1-6-4   Recall petition
   
1-6-5   Signature sheets
   
1-6-6   Warning
   
1-6-7   Verification of signatures and belief in the grounds and charges for
removal
   
1-6-8   Timing of recall elections
§ 1-6-1 WARDS ESTABLISHED.
   The location and boundaries of the six wards of the City are located
specifically in accordance with the map and plat attached to Ord. 2002-06, on
file in the Office of the City Clerk, and are described by boundaries, with all
boundary lines described following the centerline of the streets and extending
to the furthermost point within the corporate limits of the City or to a
further point without the corporate limits of the City, if necessary, to
include any portion of the City within said described ward, further described
as follows:
   (A)   Ward One. That portion of southwest Enid, Oklahoma, which lies within
the following described line which extends to the furthermost limits of the
city, or to a further point without the corporate limits of the city, if
necessary, to include any portion of the city within said described ward,
described as follows:
      Beginning at the intersection of West Chestnut Avenue and the western
boundary line limit of the city of Enid, Oklahoma; Thence East to the
intersection of Oakwood Road and Chestnut Avenue; Thence South to the
intersection of Oakwood Road and Randolph Avenue; Thence East to the
intersection of Randolph Avenue and Cleveland Street; Thence South along
Cleveland Street continuing south on South Wilkie Way to the south boundary of
the City limits, thence west following the south boundary of the City limits,
or the fence line of Vance Air Force Base to South Oakwood Road, thence north
along Oakwood Road to the Southeast corner of the Northeast quarter of Section
27 of Township 22 North, Range 7 West, thence west following the center of
Sections 27, 28, and 29 of Township 22 North, 7 West to Imo Road, thence north
following the west boundary line of the city limits to West Chestnut Avenue,
which is the point of Beginning.
   (B)   Ward Two. That portion of southcentral Enid, Oklahoma, which lies
within the following described line which extends to the furthermost limits of
the city, or to a further point without the corporate limits of the city, if
necessary, to include any portion of the city within said described ward,
described as follows:
      Two separated areas:
      The Northwest Quarter of Section 28 of Township 22 North Range 6 West of
Indian Meridian, City of Enid, within Garfield County, Oklahoma.
      Beginning at the intersection of South Cleveland Avenue and Owen K.
Garriott Avenue thence east along Garriott to the Intersection of Garriott and
30th Street, thence south on 30th Street to Rupe Avenue, thence west on Rupe
Avenue to the Rail Road and following the Rail Road southwesterly until it
intersects with Van Buren Avenue where it includes the Sunridge Estates
Subdivision and continues south down Van Buren Avenue to Grey Ridge Estates
Subdivision which is included, thence along the southern boundary of the Enid
city limits that follows Wheat Capital Road and continues west across Van Buren
following the Vance Air Force Base fence line to the Northwest Corner of
Section 1 of Township 21 North, Range 7 West, thence north, incorporating part
of Vance Air Force Base, to the Intersection of Cleveland Avenue and Garriott,
which is the point of Beginning.
   (C)   Ward Three. The portion of southeast Enid, Oklahoma which lies within
the following described line which extends to the furthermost limits of the
City, or to a further point without the corporate limits of the City, to
include any portion of the City within said described ward, described as
follows: Beginning at the intersection of East Willow Road and the eastern
boundary line limit of the City of Enid, Oklahoma; thence west to the
intersection of 30th Street and Willow Road; thence south to the intersection
of Walnut Avenue and 30th Street; thence west to the intersection of Walnut
Avenue and the U.P. Railroad tracks; thence southwesterly along the U.P.
Railroad tracks to the intersection of Garriott Road; thence east to the
intersection of Market Avenue and 30th Street; thence south to the southern
boundary line limit of the City of Enid, Oklahoma;
   (D)   Ward Four. The portion of northeast Enid, Oklahoma which lies within
the following described line which line extends to the furthermost limits of
the City, or to a further point without the corporate limits of the City, if
necessary, to include any portion of the City within said described ward,
described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of North Van Buren Street
and the northern boundary line limit of the City of Enid, Oklahoma; thence
south to the intersection of Mulberry Avenue and Van Buren Street; thence
easterly along Mulberry Avenue to the intersection of Washington Street and
Mulberry Avenue; thence south to the intersection of Walnut Avenue and
Washington Street; thence east to the intersection of 30th Street and Walnut
Avenue; thence north to the intersection of Willow Road and 30th Street; thence
east to the intersection of Willow Road and the eastern boundary line limit of
the City of Enid, Oklahoma;
   (E)   Ward Five. The portion of central Enid, Oklahoma, which lies within
the following described line which extends to the furthermost limits of the
City, or to a further point without the corporate limits of the City, if
necessary, to include any portion of the City within said described ward,
described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of North Van Buren Street
and Willow Road; thence west to the intersection of Oakwood Road and Willow
Road; thence south to the intersection of Randolph Avenue and Oakwood Road;
thence East to the intersection of Cleveland Street and Randolph Avenue; thence
south to the intersection of Garriott Road and Cleveland Street; thence east to
the intersection of Garriott Road and U.P. Railroad; thence northeasterly to
the intersection of Walnut Avenue and U.P. Railroad; thence west to the
intersection of Washington Street and Walnut Avenue; thence north to the
intersection of Mulberry Avenue and Washington Street; thence westerly along
Mulberry Avenue to the intersection of Van Buren Street and Mulberry Avenue;
thence north to the intersection of North Van Buren Street and Willow Road,
said intersection being the point of beginning; and
   (F)   Ward Six. That portion of northwest Enid, Oklahoma which lies within
the following described line which line extends to the furthermost limits of
the City, or to a further point without the corporate limits of the City, if
necessary, to include any portion of the City within said described ward,
described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of North Van Buren Street
and the northern boundary line limit of the City of Enid, Oklahoma; thence
south to the intersection of Willow Road and Van Buren Street; thence west to
the intersection of Oakwood Road and Willow Road; thence south to the
intersection of Chestnut Avenue and Oakwood Road; thence west to the western
boundary line limit of the City of Enid, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-7-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 20-101
§ 1-6-2 ABSENTEE BALLOTS.
   Absentee ballots shall be provided in every municipal election.
§ 1-6-3 RECALL OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Recall petitions for the removal of the Mayor or a Commissioner are governed
by City Charter and are limited to those officers that have been in office at
least six months.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 10-19-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see City Charter, § A.7.7
§ 1-6-4 RECALL PETITION.
   The petition shall include a general statement of the grounds and charges
for which the removal is sought.
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see City Charter, § A.7.7
§ 1-6-5 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   The sheet for signatures shall include a space for persons to sign
their name, their address with a street name and number, a zip code and the
month and day of the birth of the person signing the petition.
   (B)   The requirements of having a voter include his name and address (with
street name and number) are required by the City Charter, § A.7.7. The
requirements of having a voter include his zip code and the month and day of
his birth are required by 34 O.S. §§ 1 and 2.
   (C)   The voter signature part of the petition may follow this sample:
 
_____________      _____________________      __________________      _____________________
Name (print)         Street [number, zip]         Birth [month, day]         Signature
 
   (D)   Each recall petition shall be duplicated for the securing of
signatures. Each copy of the recall petition shall include the general
statement of the grounds and charges and the sheet for signatures. This is
referred to as a pamphlet.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 1-6-6 WARNING.
   (A)   On the outer page of each pamphlet shall be printed the word
“Warning”, and underneath this in ten-point type the words: “It is a felony for
anyone to sign an initiative, referendum or recall petition with any name other
than his own, or knowingly to sign his name more than once for the measure, or
to sign such petition when he is not a legal voter”.
   (B)   The felony that is referenced in the warning is 34 O.S. § 24. The
State Supreme Court has mandated the inclusion of the 34 O.S. § 3 warning for
municipal recall petitions.
Editor’s note:
   In Re: Petition to Recall Ward Three City Commissioner Ben Ezzell, 2021 OK
05.
§ 1-6-7 VERIFICATION OF SIGNATURES AND BELIEF IN THE GROUNDS AND CHARGES FOR
REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any person who circulates a sheet of said petition shall verify the
signatures included on any signature sheets he circulates by executing his
affidavit thereon and as a part thereof. The verification shall be placed on
the back of each signature sheet. The following is the verification required:
 
State of Oklahoma,
 
County of Garfield,
 
I, ___________, being first duly sworn, say: That I am at least eighteen years
old and that all signatures on the signature sheet were signed in my presence;
I believe that each has stated his or her name, mailing address, and date of
birth associated with his or her Oklahoma voter registration record, and that
each signer is a legal voter of ___________ (the City of Enid, for the recall
of the Mayor) or ______ (Ward__ in the City of Enid, for the recall of a
Commissioner). I further state that the grounds and charges are true and I
believe that each signature on the pamphlet is the genuine signature of the
person whose name it purports to be.
 
___________________________________
(Signature and complete address of affiant.)
 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this ___ day of _______ A.D. 20__.
 
___________________________________
(Signature and title of the Oklahoma notarial officer before whom oath is made,
and his or her complete address, commission number and expiration date, and
official Oklahoma notary public seal.)
 
   (B)   This verification combines the language required by 34 O.S. § 6 and
the last sentence of the verification includes the language of the City
Charter, § A.7.7.
§ 1-6-8 TIMING OF RECALL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   State laws governing elections no longer accommodates the short time
frame for holding a recall election provided in the City Charter, § A.7.7.
Therefore, when the City Clerk has found a recall petition sufficient, the City
Clerk shall place the recall petition on the next City Council meeting for
action by the City Council. The Council shall order and fix the date for
holding the election pursuant to state election laws.
   (B)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than $300 plus costs.
(Ord. 2017-27, passed 12-5-2017; Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-21-2021; Ord. 2021-16,
passed 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 7: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
1-7-1   Red Flag Program
   
1-7-2   Definitions
   
1-7-3   Findings
   
1-7-4   Process of establishing a covered account
   
1-7-5   Access to covered account information
   
1-7-6   Credit card payments
   
1-7-7   Red flags
   
1-7-8   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
1-7-9   Program administration
   
1-7-10   Amendments to program
   
1-7-11   Outside service providers
   
1-7-12   Treatment of address discrepancies
§ 1-7-1 RED FLAG PROGRAM.
   As mandated by federal law and regulation, the City hereby adopts an
“identity theft prevention program”, to prevent and mitigate identity theft
through the use of “red flags”.
§ 1-7-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT. An account that a financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains, primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that
involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a
credit card account or utility account, and any other account that the
financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the
financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial,
operational, compliance, reputation or litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefor.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original CREDITOR who participates in the
decision to extend, renew or continue credit and includes utility companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and driver’s
license information and for a natural person includes the person’s Social
Security number, date of birth and the person’s mother’s birth name.
   RED FLAGS. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the City.
§ 1-7-3 FINDINGS.
   The City has performed a risk assessment as required by federal law and the
findings of the assessment are as follows.
   (A)   The City is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its
maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in arrears.
   (B)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (C)   Access to personal identifying information is restricted to those
employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered
accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information provided
to such employees is entered directly into the City’s computer system and is
not otherwise recorded.
   (D)   There is a “low risk” of identity theft for customers that utilize
city services:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s identifying information to
establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a customer’s or previous customer’s personal identifying
information by an applicant to obtain or restore service in the previous
customer’s name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment by a customer to pay a customer’s covered account or accounts; and/
or
      (4)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment in order to obtain or restore an account.
§ 1-7-4 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account, each applicant shall provide
the City with personal identifying information of the applicant/customer. Such
information shall be entered directly into the City’s computer system and shall
not otherwise be recorded. Each account shall be assigned an account number.
The City may utilize computer software to randomly generate assigned PINs and
to encrypt account numbers and PINs.
§ 1-7-5 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be limited
to authorized city personnel. Any unauthorized access to or other breach of
customer accounts is to be reported immediately to the Finance Director and the
password changed immediately. Personal identifying information included in
customer accounts is considered confidential, and any requests or demand for
such information shall be immediately forwarded to the Finance Director and the
City Attorney for a determination concerning release.
§ 1-7-6 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments made over the internet are
processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or via the City’s
website shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in
the computer database.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit card, debit card or the bank account
used for payment of the covered account.
§ 1-7-7 RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for “red flags”. Red flags include:
   (A)   Alerts. Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection
agencies or service providers. Examples of alerts include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
      (2)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer
report;
      (3)   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency; or
      (4)   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
         (a)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         (b)   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         (c)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         (d)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution
or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identification. Examples of suspicious identifying
personal information include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. (For
example, the address does not match any address in the consumer report, or the
Social Security number (SSN) provided has not issued, or is listed in the
Social Security Administration’s death master file);
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN ranges and date of
birth;
      (3)   Personal identifying information (such as a phone number or
address) that is associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as
indicated by internal or third party sources used by the financial institution
or creditor;
      (4)   Other information provided, such as a fictitious mailing address,
maildrop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or use
of an answering service that is associated with fraudulent activity;
      (5)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers;
      (6)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or is
similar to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually
large number of applicants or customers;
      (7)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
      (8)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; and/or
      (9)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   (D)   Suspicious activity. Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to
a covered account. Examples of suspicious activity include the following.
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
the City receives a request for the addition of authorized users on the
account.
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud, such as a customer failing to make the
first payment or makes the first payment but fails to make subsequent payments.
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. (For example, there is a
nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments, or a material
change in consumption of services.)
      (4)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account.
      (5)   The City is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
      (6)   The City is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account.
      (7)   The City is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   (E)   Notice. Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other
reliable sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to
covered accounts.
§ 1-7-8 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   Existing accounts. In the event that a city employee responsible for
or involved in restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a
covered account becomes aware of one or more red flags with respect to existing
covered accounts, such employee shall use discretion to determine whether such
red flag or combination of red flags suggest a threat of identity theft. If
such employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is
likely or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to
the Finance Director. If such employee deems that identity theft is unlikely or
that reliable information is available to reconcile red flags, the employee
shall convey this information to the Finance Director, who may determine that
no further action is necessary. If the Finance Director determines that further
action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one or more of the following
responses, as determined to be appropriate by the Finance Director:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   If, after contacting the customer, it is apparent that someone
other than the customer has accessed the customer’s covered account, the
following changes to the account should occur:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account.
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customers,
and decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event
that the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such
access has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   In the event that a customer’s account has been sold to a debt
collector prior to the discovery of the likelihood or probability of identity
theft relating to such account, notify the debt collector within 72 hours of
the discovery of a probable identity theft related to a customer account;
      (5)   Notify law enforcement, in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; and
      (6)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   New accounts. In the event that a city employee responsible for or
involved in opening a new covered account becomes aware of one or more red
flags with respect to an application for a new account, such employee shall use
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If such employee determines that identity
theft or attempted identity theft is likely or probable, such employee shall
immediately report such red flags to the Finance Director. If such employee
deems that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available
to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the
Finance Director, who may determine that no further action is necessary. If the
Finance Director determines that further action is necessary, a city employee
shall perform one or more of the following responses, as determined to be
appropriate by the Finance Director:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; and/or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
§ 1-7-9 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Finance Director is appointed the compliance administrator and is
responsible for oversight of the program and for program implementation. The
City Manager is responsible for reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding
compliance with red flag requirements and with recommending material changes to
the program to address changing identity theft risks and to identify new or
discontinued types of covered accounts. Any recommended material changes to the
program shall be submitted to the City Council for consideration.
   (B)   (1)   The Finance Director will review the program in November 2009,
and prepare a yearly report for the City Manager and the City Council in May
2010. The report will address material matters related to the program and
evaluate issues such as:
         (a)   The effectiveness of its policies and procedures in addressing
the risk of identity theft in connection with the covered accounts;
         (b)   Service provider arrangements;
         (c)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
         (d)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
      (2)   Thereafter, the Finance Director shall report at least annually to
the City Manager on compliance with the identity theft prevention program.
   (C)   The Finance Director is responsible for providing training to all
employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implantation and requirements of the identity theft
prevention program. The Finance Director shall determine the amount and
substance of training necessary.
§ 1-7-10 AMENDMENTS TO PROGRAM.
   Based upon the annual reviews of the program, recommendations and amendments
to the program should be considered by the City Council whenever necessary. The
Council should consider updating this chapter to reflect changes in risks to
customers or to the safety of the City and its covered accounts from identity
theft. It shall consider the following factors and exercise its discretion in
amending the program:
   (A)   The City’s experience with identity theft;
   (B)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
   (C)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft;
   (D)   Updates in the types of accounts that the City offers or maintains;
and
   (E)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
§ 1-7-11 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the City engages a service provider to perform an activity
in connection with one or more covered accounts, the Finance Director shall
exercise discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to ensure that the
service provider’s activities are conducted in accordance with policies and
procedures that are designated to detect any red flags that may arise in the
performance of the service provider’s activities and that appropriate steps are
in place to prevent or mitigate identity theft. This should be covered in the
contract between the service provider and the City.
§ 1-7-12 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   (A)   Customer identity. Pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.1, the City must
establish a process for determining the identity of a customer when there is a
discrepancy between the address provided and the one listed on the customer
credit report.
   (B)   Activities to be performed. In the event that the City receives a
notice of address discrepancy, the city employee responsible for verifying a
consumer’s address for the purpose of providing the municipal service or
account sought by the consumer shall perform one or more of the following
activities, as determined to be appropriate by such employee:
      (1)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
         (a)   Information the City obtains to verify a consumer’s identity in
accordance with the requirements of the customer information program rules
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 5318(l);
         (b)   Information the City maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records or tax records; or
         (c)   Information the City obtains from third party sources that are
deemed reliable by the relevant city employee.
      (2)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
   (C)   Address confirmation; reporting to consumer reporting agency.
      (1)   In the event that the City reasonably confirms that an address
provided by a consumer to the City is adequate, the City is required to provide
such address to the consumer reporting agency from which the City received a
notice of address discrepancy with respect to such consumer. This information
is required to be provided to the consumer reporting agency when:
         (a)   The City is able to form a reasonable belief that the consumer
report relates to the consumer about whom the City requested the report;
         (b)   The City establishes a continuing relationship with the
consumer; and
         (c)   The City regularly and in the ordinary course of business
provides information to the consumer reporting agency from which it received
the notice of address discrepancy.
      (2)   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency
as part of the information regularly provided by the City to such agency for
the reporting period in which the City establishes a relationship with the
customer.
   (D)   Methods of confirming consumer addresses. The city employee charged
with confirming consumer addresses may confirm the accuracy of an address
through one or more of the following methods:
      (1)   Verify the address with the consumer;
      (2)   Review the City’s records to verify the consumer’s address;
      (3)   Verify the address through third party sources; or
      (4)   Use other reasonable processes.
CHAPTER 8: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
1-8-1   Reserved
   
1-8-2   Meetings of commissions, rules of procedure
   
1-8-3   Members of boards and commissions
   
1-8-4   Boards and commissions
Cross-reference:
   Provisions concerning the Mayor and Board of Commissioners and the City
Manager, see §§ A.4.1 through A.4.13 and Part D of the City Charter
§ 1-8-1 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 1-8-2 MEETINGS OF COMMISSIONS, RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   All meetings of the City Council and all other city boards and the
procedures for such meetings shall be governed first by state law, then city
code, and then resolutions passed by the City Council. The most recent version
of Roberts Rules of Order may be used as a reference for the procedures of
conducting meetings where there is no law, code or resolution providing such
procedure.
(1994 Code, § 2-7) (Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 1-8-3 MEMBERS OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   Absence from meetings.
      (1)   City Council and Board of Trustees of City Trust Authorities.
Whenever any member of the City Council and/or a Board of Trustees of City
Trust Authorities is absent from more than one-half of all meetings of the City
Council and/or a Board of Trustees of City Trust Authorities, regular and
special, held within any period of four consecutive months, such member shall
thereupon cease to hold such position.
      (2)   Other boards and commissions excepting city trusts. Any member
appointed or confirmed by the City shall cease to hold office whenever:
         (a)   The member of a board or commission, that regularly meets on a
monthly or more frequent basis, is absent from more than one-half of all
meetings of such board or commission, regular and special, held within any
period of four consecutive months; or
         (b)   The member of a board or commission, that meets on call or
regularly meets on less than a monthly basis, is absent from more than one-half
of all meetings of such board or commission, regular or special, held within
any period of 12 consecutive months.
   (B)   Removal; notice of charges, hearing and appeal.
      (1)   Causes for removal. Any member of any board or commission, other
than members of Board of Trustees of City Trust Authorities, appointed by the
City Council, may be removed from office by the City Council for any of the
following causes:
         (a)   Habitual or willful neglect of duty;
         (b)   Gross partiality in office;
         (c)   Oppression in office;
         (d)   Corruption in office;
         (e)   Extortion or willful overcharge of fees in office;
         (f)   Willful maladministration;
         (g)   Habitual drunkenness;
         (h)   Failure to produce and account for all public funds and property
in his hands at any settlement or inspection authorized or required by law;
         (i)   Violation of any penal statute involving moral turpitude; and/or
         (j)   Failure to maintain conditions of office.
      (2)   Charges and hearing. Prior to removal of a member of a city board
or commission for causes other than absence, the member shall have been given
written notice of the charges and be afforded an opportunity to be heard before
the City Council.
      (3)   Appeal. The decision of the City Council may be appealed to the
District Court of the county if filed within 30 days of the decision of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3) (Ord. 2013-20, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 1-8-4 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide direction to
appointed members of boards and commissions to promote good stable decision-
making and productive meetings. All the boards, other than the Civil Service
Commissions, have an advisory role as their primary function.
   (B)   Direction of employees.
      (1)   Members of appointed boards do not direct city employees.
      (2)   The hiring, firing and discipline of city employees is left
exclusively to the City Manager, the Chiefs of the Fire and Police Departments
and the respective Civil Service Commissions, with the exception of the City
Manager, City Attorney and the city judges that are hired by the City Council.
   (C)   Meetings of the boards and commissions.
      (1)   All boards and commissions are subject to the Open Meeting Act, see
25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq. and the Open Records Act, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
      (2)   Board members who want to place an item on the agenda should notify
the appropriate city staff as soon as possible, at least four days, not
including weekends or holidays, before the meeting, to allow staff time to
prepare the agenda and any documents that are needed.
      (3)   Meetings should provide an opportunity for the public to make
comments on the items that are to be discussed with the exception of the Fire
and Police Civil Service Commissions when the meetings involve testing for
employment or discipline.
      (4)   Board members should review agendas prior to the meeting.
      (5)   All board decisions must be made at a public meeting.
      (6)   Board members may not confer on matters of business with a majority
of board members except at a public meeting and if the item is on the agenda.
To do so violates the Open Meeting Law. If members poll a majority of the board
on a matter of business whether in a group or one by one, including emails,
this activity is a violation of the Open Meeting Law.
   (D)   Conflict of interest. If a board member has a personal or business
interest in an item on the agenda, a board member should do one of the
following options. Prior to the item coming up for discussion, the board member
could leave the meeting while the item is discussed and voted upon, if his
absence will not result in a loss of a quorum; or, the board member could
abstain from the vote. An abstention is counted as a no vote on whatever motion
is made. A board member should not enter into the discussion of the item or
vote on an item for which he has an interest in.
   (E)   Policies.
      (1)   For those boards that have policy making authority, the policies
should apprise the public of the reason for the policy and the policy should be
written in clear language so that the public understands it and staff can
implement it.
      (2)   If a board member plans on putting a policy on the agenda for
approval, not just discussion or study, the board member should meet and
discuss the policy with appropriate staff prior to requesting it be placed on
the agenda. This gives staff the opportunity to discuss the implementation and
implications of the proposed policy, allow for alternatives or suggestions to
be discussed, and if necessary to have it be reviewed by the City Manager to
ensure that they are consistent with the City’s overall mission and determine
if the City has the resources and staff to implement it well.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 9: CITY DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
1-9-1   Convention and Tourism Department
   
1-9-2   Golf Course Department
§ 1-9-1 CONVENTION AND TOURISM DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a department within the City
entitled the “Convention and Tourism Department”.
   (B)   Functions.
      (1)   The Department shall administer and direct, to the extent such
authority has not been delegated by the City Council to a third party by
contract, all tourism and convention activities of the City.
      (2)   This Department’s duties shall include, but not be limited to:
managing, operating and maintaining the Cherokee Strip Conference Center;
gathering information and ideas; conducting research and developing advertising
and promotional programs and materials to promote the City’s image so that the
City will be developed and maintained as a major tourist and convention center.
      (3)   The City Manager, or his designee, shall be responsible for the
activities and functions of this Department.
   (C)   Third party contracts. The City Council may contract with a third
party entity to perform any and all services of this Department, including, but
not limited to, the management, operation and advertising of the Cherokee Strip
Conference Center. In the event that a third party contract is used to
implement this Department, the City Manager shall coordinate all work under the
contract so that a smooth and efficient service is maintained.
   (D)   Rules, regulations and fees. The City Council shall designate rules
and regulations concerning the operation of the conference center, which rules
and regulations shall be on file with the City Clerk. These rules and
regulations shall be followed in the management of the Cherokee Strip
Conference Center. The fees that are set out in §
2-6C-5 shall be charged for the use of the conference center.
(1994 Code, § 2-51) (Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 1-9-2 GOLF COURSE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a department within the City
entitled the “Golf Course Department”.
   (B)   Functions. The functions and duties of the Golf Course Department
shall be as provided by this code and the City Manager. The Golf Course
Department shall have under its supervision, Meadowlake Golf Course, together
with all other golf course facilities which may hereinafter be established and/
or which are owned and managed by the City. The Golf Course Department shall be
supervised and directed by the golf professional, who shall be responsible for
all operations of his Department.
   (C)   City Park and Recreation Board. The City Manager may refer Golf Course
Department issues and policies to the City’s Park and Recreation Board for
their consideration and review. Such Board shall submit recommendations to the
City Council concerning the Golf Course Department.
   (D)   Rules, regulations and fees. The City Council shall designate rules
and regulations concerning the operation of the golf course, which rules and
regulations shall be on file with the City Clerk. These rules and regulations
shall be followed in the management and operation of Meadowlake Golf Course.
The fees that are set out in §
2-6C-4 shall be charged for the use of Meadowlake Golf Course.
(1994 Code, § 2-61) (Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
CHAPTER 10: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
1-10-1   Fees imposed; exceptions
   
1-10-2   Posting of fee schedule
   
1-10-3   Retention of security video recordings at city property
§ 1-10-1 FEES IMPOSED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Payment of fee; exceptions. Persons desiring copies of ordinances and
other public records of the City shall pay to the Director of Finance the fee
provided for in §
2-6A-1. This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Complete copies of this code;
      (2)   Copies of chapters or similar parts of this code which have been
prepared in booklet form; or
      (3)   Ordinances which have been prepared in booklet form; provided
another fee has been established for same.
   (B)   Search fee.
      (1)   If the request for copies of public records is solely for
commercial purposes or clearly would cause excessive disruption of the public
body’s essential functions, then the fee provided in §
2-6A-1(B) will be charged and paid to recover the direct cost of document
search.
      (2)   In no case shall a search fee be charged when the release of said
documents is in the public interest, including, but not limited to, release to
the news media, scholars, authors and taxpayers seeking to determine whether
those entrusted with the affairs of the government are honestly, faithfully and
competently performing their duties as public servants.
(1994 Code, § 2-10) (Prior Code, § 1-10-1)
§ 1-10-2 POSTING OF FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City Clerk shall post a copy of the fee schedule on the public bulletin
board in the administration building and with the County Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 2-10) (Prior Code, § 1-10-2)
§ 1-10-3 RETENTION OF SECURITY VIDEO RECORDINGS AT CITY PROPERTY.
   Digital video recordings from security cameras at city property are retained
until the storage media capacity limitations on said digital cameras are
exceeded and the recordings are automatically deleted to make room for new
recordings.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3) (Ord. 2020-13, passed 7-7-2020)
CHAPTER 11: RESERVED
[Reserved]
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Court provisions, see
Title 5, Chapter 1
CHAPTER 12: DISCRIMINATION AND RACIAL PROFILING
Section
   
1-12-1   Definitions
   
1-12-2   Employees
   
1-12-3   Employment agencies
   
1-12-4   Labor organizations
   
1-12-5   Training programs
   
1-12-6   Public accommodations
   
1-12-7   Housing
   
1-12-8   Other discriminatory practices
   
1-12-9   Reverse discrimination
   
1-12-10   Application of federal or state law
   
1-12-11   Exceptions
   
1-12-12   Serving notices
   
1-12-13   Community Relations Commission
   
1-12-14   Violations and complaints
   
1-12-15   Racial profiling prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Discrimination generally, see 25 O.S. §§ 1101 et seq.
   Local ordinances prohibiting discrimination authorized, see 25 O.S. § 1702
§ 1-12-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGE. The period of time when a worker is at least 40 years old and less than
70 years old.
   COMMISSION. The Community Relations Commission.
   COMMISSIONER. A member of the Commission.
   DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE. The practice designated as discriminatory under
this chapter.
   EMPLOYER. A person who has five or more employees exclusive of the parent,
spouse or children of such person, including the City, its departments, boards,
commissions and authorities, and any other governmental agency within its
jurisdiction, or a person who, as a contractor or subcontractor, is furnishing
the material or performing work for the state or a governmental entity or
agency of the state and includes an agent of such a person, but does not
include an Indian tribe, a bona fide membership club not organized for profit
or religious, fraternal or sectarian organization which is not supported in
whole or in part by any governmental appropriations.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. A person regularly undertaking, with or without
compensation, to procure employees for an employer or to procure for employees
opportunities to work for an employer and includes an agent of such a person.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. Shall include:
      (1)   An organization of any kind, an agency or employee representation
committee, group, association or plan in which employees participate and which
exists for the purpose, in whole or in part;
      (2)   A conference, general committee, joint or system board or joint
council so engaged which is subordinate to a national or international labor
organization; or
      (3)   An agent of a labor organization.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN. Shall include the national origin of an ancestor.
   OWNER. The owner, co-owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee, assignee, manager,
agent, employee or any other person having the right of ownership or possession
or the authority to sell, rent or lease any dwelling unit, or any person having
an equitable or security interest in any dwelling unit, including the City and
its departments, boards, commissions and authorities.
   PERSON. An individual, association, corporation, joint apprenticeship,
committee, joint stock company, labor union, legal representative, mutual
company, partnership, receiver, trust, trustee, trustee in bankruptcy,
unincorporated organization, any other legal or commercial entity, the state or
any governmental entity or agency, including the City.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Includes any place, store or other
establishment, either licensed or unlicensed, which supplies goods or services
to the general public or which solicits or accepts the patronage or trade of
the general public or which is supported directly or indirectly by government
funds. Except that a private club is not a PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION, if
its policies are determined by its members and its facilities or services are
available only to its members and their bona fide guests. PLACE OF PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION shall not include barbershops or beauty shops or privately owned
resort or amusement establishments or an establishment located within a
building which contains not more than five rooms for rent or hire and which is
actually occupied by the proprietor of the establishment as his residence.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person who, for a fee or other valuable
consideration, manages, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents or negotiates, or
offers or attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange or rental of, the
real property of another, or holds himself out as engaged in the business of
managing, selling, purchasing, exchanging or renting the real property of
another, or collects rent for the use of the real property of another, and
includes real estate salesmen or agents or any other person employed by a real
estate broker to perform or to assist in the performance of his business.
§ 1-12-2 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Discriminatory practice. It is a discriminatory practice for an
employer:
      (1)   To fail or refuse to hire, to discharge or otherwise to
discriminate against an individual with respect to compensation or the terms,
conditions, privileges or responsibilities of employment because of age, race,
color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap unless such action is related
to a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal
operation of the employer’s business or enterprise; and/or
      (2)   To limit, segregate or classify an employee in a way which would
deprive or tend to deprive him of employment opportunities or otherwise
adversely affect his status because of age, race, color, sex, national origin
or handicap unless such action is related to a bona fide occupational
qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the employer’s
business or enterprise.
   (B)   Exception. This shall not apply to the employment of an individual by
his parents, spouse or child or to employment in the domestic service of the
employer.
§ 1-12-3 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES.
   It is a discriminatory practice for an employment agency to fail or refuse
to refer for employment, or otherwise to discriminate against, an individual
because of age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap, or to
classify or refer to employment an individual on the basis of age, race, color,
religion, sex, national origin or handicap.
§ 1-12-4 LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.
   It is a discriminatory practice for a labor organization:
   (A)   Exclude from membership. To exclude or to expel from membership, or
otherwise to discriminate against, a member or applicant for membership because
of age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap;
   (B)   Limit, segregate or classify. To limit, segregate or classify
membership, or to classify or to fail to refer for employment an individual in
a way:
      (1)   Which would deprive or tend to deprive an individual of employment
opportunities; or
      (2)   Which would limit employment opportunities or otherwise adversely
affect the status of an employee or of an applicant for employment because of
age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap.
   (C)   Encourage violation by employer. To cause, or attempt to cause, an
employer to violate the provisions of this chapter.
§ 1-12-5 TRAINING PROGRAMS.
   It is a discriminatory practice for an employer, labor organization or joint
labor-management committee controlling apprenticeship, on-the-job or other
training or retraining program, to discriminate against an individual because
of age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap in admission
to, or employment in, a program established to provide apprenticeship or other
training.
§ 1-12-6 PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   It is a discriminatory practice for a person to deny an individual the full
and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages
and accommodations of a place of public accommodation because of age, sex,
race, color, religion, national origin or handicap.
§ 1-12-7 HOUSING.
   (A)   Real estate brokers, salesmen. No person, real estate broker, real
estate salesman or agent shall:
      (1)   Refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title
or other interest in any housing or real property upon which residential
housing is to be constructed to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential unit, because of
race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap;
      (2)   Refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or leasing
of any residential property, or to represent that such property is not
available for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, because of such person’s race, color, religion, sex, national origin
or handicap;
      (3)   Solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person
owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not
to sell, rent or lease such housing to any person on the ground of loss of
value due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person
of another race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap, either by
direct solicitation or inducement or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute, or cause to
be distributed, material or making statements designed to induce a residential
property owner to sell or lease his property due to such change in
neighborhood;
      (4)   File a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter with
knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment; and
      (5)   Deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple-listing service, (real estate broker’s organization or other service),
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of such
access, membership or participation, on account of race, color, sex, religion,
national origin or handicap.
   (B)   Banks, financial institutions. No bank, building and loan association,
insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose
business consists, in whole or in part, in the making of commercial real estate
loans, shall:
      (1)   Deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
      (2)   Discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest,
rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of race, color, sex, religion, national origin or handicap
of such person or of any person associated with him in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance (or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance), or of the prospective owners, lessees, tenants or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be given.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of subsections (A) and (B) above shall not
apply:
      (1)   To prohibit persons from giving preference to prospective buyers or
tenants for any reason other than race, color, religion, sex, national origin
or handicap;
      (2)   To the sale of a dwelling which is, or was at the time when first
offered for sale, the residence of its owner;
      (3)   To the rental of rooms in an owner occupied residence or in a
dwelling used exclusively as a rooming house; and
      (4)   To the rental or leasing of a dwelling or housing unit owned by any
religious or fraternal organization, or private club used and occupied for
organizational purposes.
§ 1-12-8 OTHER DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   It is a discriminatory practice for an employer, labor organization or
employment agency to print or publish, or cause to be printed or published, a
notice or advertisement relating to employment by the employer or membership in
or a classification or referral for employment by the labor organization, or
relating to a classification or referral for employment by the employment
agency, indicating a preference, limitation, specification or discrimination,
based on age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap; however,
a notice or advertisement may indicate a preference, limitation, specification
or discrimination based on age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or
handicap when it is a bona fide occupational qualification for employment.
§ 1-12-9 REVERSE DISCRIMINATION.
   Nothing in this chapter requires an employer, employment agency, labor
organization or joint labor-management committee subject to this chapter to
grant preferential treatment to an individual or to a group because of age,
race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap of the individual or
group on account of an imbalance which may exist with respect to the total
number or percentage of persons of any age, race, color, religion, sex,
national origin or handicap employed by an employer, referred or classified for
employment by an employment agency or labor organization, admitted to
membership or classified by a labor organization or admitted to, or employed
in, an apprenticeship or other training or retraining program, in comparison
with the total number or percentage of persons of the age, race, color,
religion, sex, national origin or handicap in the state or a community, section
or other area. However, it is not a discriminatory practice for a person
subject to this chapter to adopt and carry out a plan to eliminate or reduce
imbalance with respect to age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or
handicap if the plan has been filed with the Commission under regulations of
the Commission and the Commission has not disapproved the plan.
§ 1-12-10 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL OR STATE LAW.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, it shall not be an
unlawful employment practice or discrimination if the act is not prohibited by
state or federal laws in regard to discrimination.
§ 1-12-11 EXCEPTIONS.
   It is not a discriminatory practice:
   (A)   For an employer to hire and employ an employee, or an employment
agency to classify or refer for employment an individual, for a labor
organization to classify its membership or to classify or refer for employment
an individual, or for an employer, labor organization or joint labor-management
committee controlling an apprenticeship or other training or retraining program
to admit or employ an individual in the program, on the basis of his age,
religion, sex, race, color, national origin or handicap if it is a bona fide
occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the
business or enterprise;
   (B)   For a school, college, university or other educational institution to
hire and employ an employee of a particular religion if the school, college,
university or other educational institution is, in whole or substantial part,
owned, supported, controlled or managed by a particular religion or by a
particular religious corporation, association or society, or if the curriculum
of the school, college, university or other educational institution is directed
toward the propagation of a particular religion;
   (C)   For an employer to apply different standards of compensation or
different terms, conditions, privileges or responsibilities of employment
pursuant to a bona fide seniority or merit system, or a system which measures
earnings by quantity or quality of production or to employees who work in a
different location, if the differences are not the result of an intention to
discriminate because of age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or
handicap; or
   (D)   For an employer to give and to act upon the results of a
professionally developed ability test if the test, its administration or action
upon the results is not designed, intended or used to discriminate because of
age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or handicap.
§ 1-12-12 SERVING NOTICES.
   All notices required under this chapter to be served upon any person may be
served personally on such person, or by mailing a copy thereof by certified or
registered mail, with return receipt requested, to the current business or
residence address of such person.
§ 1-12-13 COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Established. A Community Relations Commission will be called and
appointed to hear specific complaints. The standing commission is dissolved.
   (B)   Members. If a complaint is received by the City Clerk, the City
Manager shall appoint five residents of the City who are not directly involved
in the allegations of the complaint to serve as the Community Relations
Commission to investigate said complaint, pursuant to this chapter. The
appointees will serve until the investigation and hearing is complete.
   (C)   Clerk. The City Clerk shall serve as Clerk for the Community Relations
Commission.
   (D)   Duties. The Community Relations Commission shall:
      (1)   Receive, investigate and seek the satisfactory adjustment of
complaints which charge discriminatory practices as set forth herein; and
      (2)   Hold hearings, make findings of fact, adopt such rules and policies
as may be necessary within the limits of this chapter and otherwise carry out
the purposes and provisions of this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Local human relations commissions authorized, see 25 O.S. § 1705
§ 1-12-14 VIOLATIONS AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Filing of complaint.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practices prohibited by this
chapter may file with the Clerk of the Commission, a complaint in writing,
administered under oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming
to be aggrieved, and shall state the name and address of the person alleged to
have violated the provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the
particulars of the violation, and may include such other information as may be
required by the Commission. Complaints filed under this section shall be filed
within 60 days after the alleged violation, and failure to file within said
time shall be considered a waiver of the application of this chapter.
      (2)   The Commission may issue a complaint on its own initiative, at any
time it has knowledge that a person has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Investigation; Commission determination. The Commission shall
investigate each complaint filed, and shall attempt an adjustment of the
complaint by means of conference and conciliation. Sixty days shall be allowed
for the purpose of investigation, conference and conciliation. Upon
determination that a complaint is not well founded, the Commission shall
dismiss the complaint and notify the complainant and respondent in writing of
said dismissal. If the Commission takes no action within 90 days of the filing
of the complaint, it shall be considered dismissed.
   (C)   Hearing; notice. If conference or conciliation does not result in
compliance with this chapter, the Commission shall give the respondent and
claimant written notice stating when the hearing on the complaint alleging
discrimination is to be held. Written notice should be given at least ten days
prior to said hearing.
   (D)   Hearing procedure; appearance of complainant. At the hearing the
complainant or person aggrieved may appear in person and with counsel, and the
respondent may file a written answer to the complaint and may appear in person
and with counsel. The Commission, when conducting any hearing, pursuant to this
section, may permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony
taken at the hearing shall be under oath, and shall be transcribed at the
request of either party, or at the direction of the Commission. If the
Commission finds at said hearing that the respondent has engaged in any
discriminatory practice or practices prohibited by this chapter, it shall state
its findings of fact, and shall so certify the matter to the City Attorney for
appropriate action. No prosecution shall be brought under this chapter except
upon such certification. If the Commission, upon hearing, finds that respondent
has not engaged in any discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of
fact, and shall issue and file an order dismissing the complaint. The
Commission shall establish rules and regulations to govern, expedite and
effectuate the foregoing procedure, and shall maintain the files provided for
herein.
§ 1-12-15 RACIAL PROFILING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Racial profiling is prohibited. No officer or employee of the City
shall engage in racial profiling.
   (B)   Racial profiling means the detention, interdiction or other disparate
treatment of an individual solely on the basis of the racial or ethnic status
of an individual.
   (C)   The race or ethnicity of an individual shall not be the sole factor in
determining the existence of probable cause to take into custody or to arrest
an individual or in constituting a reasonable and articulable suspicion that an
offense has been or is being committed so as to justify the detention of an
individual or the investigative stopping of a motor vehicle.
   (D)   If an investigation reveals that racial profiling has occurred, the
employee or officer involved will be subject to disciplinary action to include
termination of employment or removal from office.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 22 O.S. § 34.3
CHAPTER 13: LABOR RELATIONS FOR NON-MANAGEMENT,
NON-MANAGEMENT/CONFIDENTIAL AND NONCONFIDENTIAL CITY EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-13-1   Purpose
   
1-13-2   Definitions
   
1-13-3   Exclusive recognition
   
1-13-4   Municipal powers and employer rights
   
1-13-5   Collective bargaining
   
1-13-6   Meet and confer
   
1-13-7   Arbitration
   
1-13-8   Arbitrators; selection
   
1-13-9   Hearing procedures; special municipal elections; effective date
   
1-13-10   Factors to be considered
   
1-13-11   Fees and expenses
   
1-13-12   Agreements; contents
§ 1-13-1 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to set forth procedures to be followed if
and when the governor of the state approves the charter amendment passed by
initiative election on November 12, 2013, wherein the voters of the City
approved collective bargaining between the City and nonuniform, non-
management, non-management/confidential and nonconfidential employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-1) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEES. All employees of the City Manager’s Office, all
employees of the City Attorney’s Office (including the court clerks), all
employees of the Human Resources Office, all employees of the Payroll Office,
all employees of the IT Department and one secretarial or clerical employee
designated by each department head.
   DAY. A calendar day, except that when a limited time period specified in
this chapter ends on a Saturday, Sunday or recognized city holiday, the limited
time period shall be extended to the next workday of the employer’s
administrative offices.
   DIRECT ECONOMIC ISSUES. Salaries, wages, rates of pay or other fringe
benefits, which require the appropriation of monies by the City Council.
   EMPLOYEE. A full time employee of the City, but does not include, for the
purposes of exclusive recognition, a management official; a supervisor; a
confidential employee; a management/confidential employee; an employee engaged
in the administration of this chapter; police officers or firefighters; or a
temporary or seasonal employee hired for a time certain of less than six months
during a fiscal year.
   EMPLOYER. The City Manager.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. A lawful organization of any kind in which employees
participate and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing
with employers concerning compensation, hours, grievances and other terms and
conditions of employment, but does not include an organization which:
      (1)   Assists or participates in a strike against the City or imposes a
duty or obligation to conduct, assist or participate in such a strike;
      (2)   Advocates the overthrow of the constitutional form of government of
the United States, or any political subdivision thereof; and/or
      (3)   Discriminates with regard to the terms or conditions of membership
because of race, color, creed, sex, age or national origin.
   MANAGEMENT/CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE. This category shall include all executive
employees and professional employees.
   MANAGEMENT OFFICIAL. This category shall include all directors, department
heads and other FLSA exempt personnel.
   STRIKE. Any work stoppage or slowdown or other behavior by an employee who,
individually or by concerted action with others and without the approval of his
superior, willfully absents himself from his position or abstains in whole or
in part from the full, faithful and proper performance of his duties for the
purpose of inducing, influencing or coercing a change in conditions or
compensation, or the rights, privileges or obligations of employment.
   SUPERVISOR. An employee having the authority, in the interest of the
employer, to do one of the following: transfer, suspend, lay off, recall,
promote, discharge, assign, reward or discipline other employees or responsibly
to direct them, or to adjust their grievances, if, in connection with the
foregoing, the exercise of authority is not of a mere routine or clerical
nature, but requires the use of independent judgment. Examples of SUPERVISORY
POSITIONS include, but are not limited to, the following: Animal Control
Manager, CIC Assistant Manager, Librarian, Assistant Supervisor, Landfill
Manager, Court Clerk, Planning Administrator, Civil Engineer, Records
Supervisor, 911 Supervisors and Juvenile and Community Services Manager.
SUPERVISORS include all department heads.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-2) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-3 EXCLUSIVE RECOGNITION.
   (A)   A labor organization seeking exclusive recognition shall submit to the
employer a roster of its officers and representatives, a copy of its charter
and constitution and bylaws.
   (B)   The City Council shall accord exclusive recognition to a labor
organization when the organization has been selected, in a secret ballot
election, by a majority of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit as
their representative. When a labor organization has been accorded exclusive
recognition, it is the exclusive representative of employees in the unit and is
entitled to act for and to negotiate agreements covering all employees in the
unit. It is responsible for representing the interests of all employees in the
unit without discrimination and without regard to labor organization
membership.
   (C)   Bargaining units shall ensure a clear and identifiable community of
interest among the employees concerned, promote effective dealings between the
labor organization and the employer, and promote the efficiency of city
operations. Therefore, there shall be established only one bargaining unit as a
result of secret ballot election. No bargaining unit shall be established if it
includes:
      (1)   Police officers or firefighters;
      (2)   Any management official or management/confidential employee,
supervisor or confidential employee;
      (3)   An employee engaged in administering this chapter; or
      (4)   A temporary or seasonal employee hired for a time certain of less
than six months during a fiscal year.
   (D)   All elections shall be conducted by secret ballot. Each employee not
excluded from the bargaining unit shall be eligible to vote and shall be
provided the opportunity to choose the labor organization he wishes to
represent him from among those on the ballot, or “no union”. When no category
on the ballot receives a majority of the valid ballots cast, a runoff election
shall be held between the two categories receiving the largest and second
largest number of votes in the first election. Elections may be held to
determine whether:
      (1)   A labor organization should be recognized as the exclusive
representative of the employees;
      (2)   A labor organization should replace another labor organization as
the exclusive representative; or
      (3)   A labor organization should cease to be the exclusive
representative.
   (E)   The employer shall call and hold an election upon receipt of a timely,
written petition signed by no less than thirty percent (30%) of the employees
eligible for membership in the union indicating their desire to be represented
by that particular labor organization or to change or to withdraw recognition.
No labor organization will be permitted to intervene in the election proceeding
and secure a place on the ballot unless it has submitted a timely, written
petition signed by no less than twenty percent (20%) of the employees eligible
for membership in the unit indicating their desire to be represented by that
particular labor organization. The employer may hold an election when he has
evidence supporting a good faith belief that the labor organization no longer
is the choice of employees in the bargaining unit.
   (F)   (1)   When the employer has received an appropriate petition, the
employer shall post notices to all employees containing information as to the
name of the petition. All interested labor organizations wishing to participate
in the election must seek intervention within the ten-day period following the
date of the posting of the notice by submitting a timely, written petition with
the employer and otherwise meeting the requirements of this chapter. As soon as
possible after the close of the period of intervention, the employer shall meet
with representatives of the successful petitions to arrange the details of the
election. Following the meeting, the employer shall post appropriate notices of
election. Between the meeting and the date of the election set by the employer,
all parties to the election. may campaign freely. Such notices shall set forth
details and procedures for the election, the eligibility period, the date, hour
and place of the election and shall contain a sample ballot, which is clearly
marked “sample” on its face. The employer shall provide the voting booths and
ballot boxes.
      (2)   Each labor organization on the ballot and the employer may be
represented by no more than two observers of its own selection at the polling
place. The observers’ function is to see that the election is conducted fairly,
the security of the ballot is maintained and all eligible voters are given an
opportunity to cast a ballot. At the conclusion of the balloting, the ballots
will be counted by the observers and an appropriate tally of ballots will be
issued. Representatives of the labor organizations and the employer shall sign
the tally of ballots indicating that the tally is correct. The signing of the
tally does not constitute a waiver of any rights by any party to file
objections. The City Manager shall promptly report the final results of the
election to the City Council. If a labor organization receives votes equaling
fifty percent (50%) plus one, this organization will be recognized as their
bargaining agent by the City Council. Otherwise, no bargaining unit will be
recognized.
   (G)   There shall be no election to determine whether a labor organization
should become, or continue to be recognized as, exclusive representative of the
employees within 12 months after a prior valid election for those employees.
When an agreement covering these employees has been signed by the employer and
the incumbent exclusive representative, an election petition will not be timely
unless filed with the employer not earlier than October 1 and not later than
October 15.
   (H)   Recognition of a labor organization does not preclude an employee,
regardless of whether he is in the union, from exercising rights established by
law or from choosing his own representative in the exercise of such rights.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-3) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-4 MUNICIPAL POWERS AND EMPLOYER RIGHTS.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed or interpreted so as to
infringe upon or remove the prerogatives of the City to operate and manage
affairs in all respects in accordance with its responsibilities and powers of
authority, nor shall the right to collective bargaining extend to such matters.
   (B)   The employer retains all the rights of management, such as those found
in this code, the Charter of the City, and the personnel manual, including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   To hire, direct, promote and take disciplinary action against
employees;
      (2)   To assign and determine working hours, including overtime, and to
allocate and assign work to employees;
      (3)   To determine the table of organization, including the right to
organize and reorganize the organization; to determine job classifications; to
determine the number of employees to be employed;
      (4)   To maintain the efficiency, safety, health and property protection
of government operations;
      (5)   To determine the methods, means, procedures, locations and
personnel by which such operations are to be conducted;
      (6)   To introduce new or different methods or operations for the City or
change, eliminate or alter any existing methods or operations;
      (7)   To determine the amount of supervision necessary;
      (8)   To determine and control the budget;
      (9)   To increase, reduce, change, modify or alter the composition and
size of the work force, including, but not limited to, the right to relieve
employees from duties due to lack of work, lack of funds or any other reason;
and
      (10)   To take whatever actions are necessary to carry out the mission of
the City in situations of emergency.
   (C)   The requirements of this section shall be expressly stated in the
initial or basic agreement and apply to all supplemental, implementing,
subsidiary or informal agreements between the employer and the labor
organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-4) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-5 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
   Once a labor organization has been selected by the procedures outlined in §
1-13-3, the employees shall have the opportunity to bargain collectively with
the employer and to be represented by a bargaining agent in such collective
bargaining as it relates to direct economic issues if the recognized bargaining
agent notifies the employer within 150 days before the City Council must adopt
a budget for the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-5) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-6 MEET AND CONFER.
   It shall be the obligation of the employer to meet at reasonable times and
confer in good faith with the labor organization within ten days after receipt
of written notice by the bargaining agent requesting a meeting for collective
bargaining purposes. The obligation shall include the duty to cause any
collective bargaining agreement resulting from negotiations to be reduced to a
written agreement. The employer shall enter into no agreement with a labor
organization without the express, written authorization of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-6) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-7 ARBITRATION.
   In the event that the bargaining agent and the employer are unable within 60
days from and including the date of the first meeting, to reach an agreement on
a contract, any and all unresolved issues shall be submitted to arbitration,
upon request of either party.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-7) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-8 ARBITRATORS; SELECTION.
   Within five days from the date of the request for arbitration referred to in
§
1-13-7, the bargaining agent and the employer shall each select and name one
arbitrator and shall immediately thereafter notify each other in writing of the
name and address of the person so selected. The two arbitrators so selected and
named shall, within five days from and after the expiration of the five-day
period hereinabove mentioned, agree upon and select a third arbitrator. If, on
the expiration of the period allowed therefor, the arbitrators are unable to
agree upon the selection of a third arbitrator, the bargaining agent and the
corporate authorities shall request the federal mediation and conciliation
service to provide a list of seven arbitrators. Within five days after receipt
of the list of arbitrators from the federal mediation and conciliation service,
the two arbitrators already selected shall alternately strike the name of one
arbitrator from the list of seven until one name remains, with the employer
making the first strike from said list. The third arbitrator, whether selected
as a result of an agreement between the two arbitrators previously selected or
selected from the list provided by the federal mediation and conciliation
service, shall act as Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-8) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-9 HEARING PROCEDURES; SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   (1)   The Arbitration Board, acting through its Chairman, shall call a
hearing to be held within ten days after the date of the appointment of the
Chair and shall, acting through its Chair, give at least seven days’ notice in
writing to each of the other two arbitrators, the bargaining agent and the
employer of the time and place of such hearing.
      (2)   At least seven days before the date of the hearing, the employer
and the bargaining agent shall submit to each other and to the Arbitration
Board members a written arbitration statement listing all contract terms which
the parties have resolved and all contract issues which are unresolved. Each
arbitration statement shall also include a final offer on each unresolved
issue. The terms and offers contained in the arbitration statements shall be
known collectively as each party’s last best offer.
      (3)   The hearing shall be informal and the rules of evidence prevailing
in judicial proceedings shall not be binding. Any and all documentary evidence
and other data deemed relevant by the arbitrators may be received in evidence.
The arbitrators shall have the power to administer oaths and to require by
subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses, the production of books,
records and other evidence relative or pertinent to the issues presented to
them for determination. A hearing shall be concluded within 20 days from the
time of commencement.
      (4)   Within seven days after the conclusion of the hearing, a majority
of the Arbitration Board members shall select one of the two last best offers
as the contract of the parties. The criteria to be used by the Board in
determining which offer to select shall be limited to §§
1-13-10(A) through (E). The Arbitration Board may not modify, add to or delete
from the last best offer of either party. Written notice of the selection
decision shall be mailed or delivered to the bargaining agent and the employer.
   (B)   If the employer’s last best offer is not selected by the Arbitration
Board, that party may submit the offers which the parties submitted to the
Arbitration Board to the voters of the City, for their selection by requesting
a special election for that purpose. The request for an election must be filed
with the Clerk of the municipality within 20 days of the date of the written
decision of the Arbitration Board. Written notice of the filing of the request
shall be given to the bargaining agent. If a request for an election is not
filed in a timely manner, the Board’s selection decision shall be final, and
the last best offer it selected shall constitute the agreement of the parties
for the remainder of the current fiscal year.
   (C)   Upon receiving a request for an election pursuant to the provisions of
this section, the Clerk shall notify the City Council of the request. Within 20
days of such notification, the municipal authorities shall call for a special
election. The election shall be governed by the state laws on special municipal
elections. Only residents of the municipality shall be eligible to vote in said
election. The ballot shall inform the voters that they must choose either the
last best offer of the bargaining agent or the last best offer of the employer.
The last best offer receiving a majority of the votes shall become the
agreement of the parties.
   (D)   Concerning issues relating to money, such ballot shall clearly state
the total dollar amount of the offer from the employer and the total dollar
amount of the offer from the bargaining agent. Such ballot shall also disclose
the total percentage of increase or decrease both offers have over or under the
last contract of the two parties. This calculation shall include all monetary
issues.
   (E)   Agreements which are reached as a result of selection by the
Arbitration Board or by election shall be effective on the first day of the
fiscal year involved regardless of the date of the final selection.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-9) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-10 FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   The arbitrators shall conduct the hearings and render their decision upon
the basis of a prompt, peaceful and just settlement of all submitted disputes
between the employees and the employer. The factors, among others, to be given
weight by the arbitrators in arriving at a decision shall include:
   (A)   Comparison of wage rates, insurance, retirement or other fringe
benefits of the employees in question with the prevailing wage rates of skilled
employees of the building trades and industry in the local operating area
involved;
   (B)   Comparison of wage rates, insurance, retirement or other fringe
benefits of the employees in question with wage rates maintained for the same
or similar work of employees exhibiting like or similar skills under the same
or similar working conditions in the local operating area involved;
   (C)   Comparison of wage rates, insurance, retirements or other fringe
benefits of the employees in question with wage rates of similar employees in
cities, towns or other political subdivisions of comparable size and economic
status within the State of Oklahoma and bordering states. COMPARABLE SIZE shall
be defined as no less and no more than ten percent (10%) difference in
population based on the last census. COMPARABLE ECONOMIC STATUS shall be
defined as cities which own and operate only a water utility (no other
utilities) and which sales tax revenue for the previous year was no less and no
more than ten percent (10%) different from the City’s sales tax revenue;
   (D)   Interest and welfare of the public and revenues available to the
municipality; or
   (E)   Comparison of peculiarities of employment in regard to other trades or
professions, including specifically:
      (1)   Hazards of employment;
      (2)   Physical qualifications;
      (3)   Educational qualifications;
      (4)   Mental qualifications; and
      (5)   Job training and skills.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-10) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-11 FEES AND EXPENSES.
   Fees and necessary expenses of the arbitrator selected by the bargaining
agent and the arbitrator selected by the employer shall be borne by the
bargaining agent and the employer respectively. The reasonable fees and
necessary expenses of the third arbitrator shall be borne equally by the
bargaining agent and employer.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-11) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 1-13-12 AGREEMENTS; CONTENTS.
   Any agreement actually negotiated between the bargaining agent and the
employer either before or within 30 days after arbitration shall constitute the
collective bargaining contract governing the employees for the period stated
therein. Any collective bargaining agreement negotiated under the terms and
provisions of this chapter shall specifically provide that the employees who
are subject to its terms shall have no right to engage in any work stoppage,
slowdown or strike, the consideration for such provision being the right to a
resolution of disputed questions. Every such agreement shall contain a clause
establishing arbitration procedures for the immediate and speedy resolution and
determination of any dispute, which may arise involving the interpretation of
any of the provisions of such agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-12) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-7-2014)
CHAPTER 14: LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
Section
   
1-14-1   City and public trust authorized
   
1-14-2   Compliance with local, state and federal regulations
   
1-14-3   Protection of public health and safety
§ 1-14-1 CITY AND PUBLIC TRUST AUTHORIZED.
   The City and any public trust with the City as beneficiary are hereby
authorized:
   (A)   Support state and national policies. To endorse and support state and
national policies, legislation and programs which may be beneficial and to
oppose such as may be injurious to the City. The City or trust may endorse,
support or oppose such policies, legislation and programs by a duly approved
resolution approved by a majority of the public body present at a regular or
special meeting;
   (B)   Legislative liaison. To appoint an employee of the City or trust and/
or contract to provide legislative liaison services with the state legislature
and/or United States Congress. The legislative liaison shall assist the City or
appropriate trust in identifying positive and negative legislative actions
affecting the City, proposing amendments to bills affecting the City,
developing legislative strategies as they relate to the City Council goals and
priorities and the long range strategic plan for economic recovery of the City
and perform all other services and duties as set out in the respective job
description of such employee and/or appropriate contract; and
   (C)   Litigation at District Court or appellate level. To join with other
cities, towns and state and national municipal associations and leagues as a
means for collective action in the exercise of their governmental and
proprietary functions, including, but not limited to, instituting or joining in
litigation at the District Court or appellate level.
(1994 Code, § 2-11) (Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 1-14-2 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance required. All duties and activities performed by the City
Council, trustees of any public trust or legislative liaison authorized by this
chapter shall be in accordance with all local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
   (B)   Use of public funds. Public funds may be used to pay necessary and
reasonable salaries, costs and expenses for such activities and services.
(1994 Code, § 2-11) (Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 1-14-3 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   All actions taken under the terms of this chapter shall be necessary to
protect the public health, public safety and comfort of the citizens of the
City.
(1994 Code, § 2-11) (Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
CHAPTER 15: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
1-15-1   Intent and purpose
   
1-15-2   Definitions
   
1-15-3   Permit application and approval process
   
1-15-4   Police and fire approvals
   
1-15-5   The review determination on application
   
1-15-6   Appeal of denial of application
   
1-15-7   Approval and issuance of permit
   
1-15-8   Event access requirements
   
1-15-9   Alcoholic beverage requirements
   
1-15-10   Food and beverage vendor requirements
   
1-15-11   Additional operator requirements
   
1-15-12   Exemption for the City
   
1-15-13   Offense and penalty
§ 1-15-1 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The City recognizes that special events in the City help create a community
that is engaged with both its civic and private leaders. The City understands
that in order to better serve the community, a streamlined and efficient
application and permit process is necessary to allocate the proper resources
for each event. These resources allocated to the health, safety, welfare and
environment of the community may become strained and affect the community if
not coordinated between the operators of the special event and the City. The
City wishes to prevent situations which exceed the City’s capacity to provide
adequately for security, public safety, health, sanitation, parking, water,
medical care, lodging and waste disposal. Further, the City desires to protect
sensitive environmental areas and prevent noise, congestion and other nuisances
which interfere with the inhabitants’ peaceful enjoyment of their homes,
businesses and property. It is the intent of this chapter to regulate special
events and improve quality of life in the community by mitigating any adverse
effects special events may cause.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTENDEE. A person who is present at a special event.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. A food vendor operating for a “temporary period”, as
defined in §
3-3-2.
   OPERATOR. An individual, group of individuals, association, partnership,
corporation, firm, company or property owner who intends to hold or sponsor a
special event, but shall not include the City.
   PARTICIPANT. A person who participates in a special event.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An outdoor meeting, festival, gathering, amusement, show,
concert or other activity that is open to the public and is on or affects city
property.
   SPECIAL EVENT AREA OR SITE. Any city property which will be maintained, used
or operated for a special event.
   VENDOR. An individual, group of individuals, association, partnership,
corporation, firm, company, business or property owner who intends to offer any
items, food or services for purchase.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-3 PERMIT APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Application required; exceptions. To obtain a permit, the operator
must submit an application to the City on a form prescribed by the Parks and
Recreation Department. The application must be submitted no less than 30 days
prior to the proposed date of the event. However, the City recognizes some
small, informal events may materialize in a short period and are not subject to
the 30-day deadline unless they are of a nature, size and logistical challenge
as is intended by this chapter. Exceptions to this deadline will be reviewed on
a case by case basis, but the spirit and intent of this chapter shall be
observed by all applicants.
   (B)   Fees. The operator must submit the necessary fees as determined by the
City after processing and approval of the permit application. Determination of
applicable fees depends on the size and the type of the event, as well as other
services needed for the event. These fees may include, but are not limited to:
a beer license fee, a traffic control fee, a park rental fee, a cleaning fee
and an electrical setup/service fee, as applicable. The City intends to ensure
the cost of such events is held to a minimum and will review each application
for accommodation of fees.
   (C)   Unique circumstances. Recognizing that many special events are unique
and present their own special circumstances, the City Manager is authorized to
promulgate regulations to meet the intent of this chapter and to waive or
modify requirements of this chapter or regulations to meet unique circumstances
of a particular special event.
   (D)   Application. The operator shall provide the following supporting
documents for the application:
      (1)   A completed application with all applicable information attached to
the documentation for review;
      (2)   If determined essential to the specific event, a map of the event
area showing the location of all street closures, fire lanes, water supplies,
points of illumination, tents, trash containers, first aid stations,
barricades, booths or vendors, stages or production areas, portable toilets,
EMS stations, parking areas, public entry points and other equipment or
materials the operator intends to place in the event area;
      (3)   The names and contact information of the operator of the special
event;
      (4)   A certificate of liability insurance in the amount and type of
coverage required by the City naming the City as an additional insured, except
that this section is not applicable to any governmental entity that is covered
under the Oklahoma Governmental Tort Claims Act, 51 O.S. §§ 151 et seq. Said
insurance certificate is not required at the time of application, but shall be
submitted at least 30 days prior to the special event;
      (5)   If street closures are involved, the operator must provide a map of
the special event area;
      (6)   The operator shall coordinate with the City to notify the public,
using, as appropriate, social media, press releases, Enid Television and
community calendars; and
      (7)   A list of all vendors who will be selling beer and alcohol. Said
list is not required at the time of application, but must be submitted at least
two working days prior to the special event or at the time the approved permit
is released, whichever is earlier.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-4 POLICE AND FIRE APPROVALS.
   (A)   The Police Chief, or his designee, shall review the detailed security
plan provided by the operator when requested.
      (1)   The plan must provide measures that will be in place to ensure
crowd control, protection of public and private property and include steps to
be taken to prevent trespassers from gaining access to the event site.
      (2)   The plan must include an explanation of how and when city police
officers or private security officers will be deployed if necessary, and where
they will be located during, before and after the event.
      (3)   The Police Chief, or his designee, will determine the number of
police officers and/or private security officers required based on the number
of persons reasonably expected to attend the event and on any other reasonably
reliable information regarding security risks, if any, posed by the proposed
special event.
      (4)   Unless the event is free to the public and fees have been waived by
the City Manager, the operator must contact the Police Chief, or his designee,
to arrange for and pay for off duty police officers to act as security.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, or his designee, and the Code Official, or his
designee, must approve the proposed location and size of any fire lane, booth,
tent, stage and other equipment.
      (1)   The Fire Chief, or his designee, will determine the appropriate
level of adequate fire protection equipment and personnel, if any, which will
be required to provide adequate fire protection at the special event site.
      (2)   Fire Department personnel may conduct a compliance inspection at a
permitted special event.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, or his designee, will also be required to approve the
use of fireworks and the burning of any materials.
   (D)   The Fire Chief, or his designee, shall review the number and type of
emergency medical personnel, services and equipment provided in the operator’s
proposed map of the event area if such are anticipated.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-5 THE REVIEW DETERMINATION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Once all materials have been submitted for review, the special event
coordinator will review all completed forms. After the review of all forms, the
coordinator will then send the proposed application to the following
departments for review:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department;
      (3)   City Clerk’s Office;
      (4)   Engineering Department;
      (5)   Code Department;
      (6)   Public Works Streets and Traffic Department; and
      (7)   Legal Department.
   (B)   Each department must examine the application. If any department does
not approve the application, they must submit reasons for denial and allow the
applicant to reconcile any issues. If the issues cannot be remediated, the
application will be denied.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-6 APPEAL OF DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   An operator who has been denied a permit may make application for relief
from portions of this chapter or from the Special Events Committee’s
recommendation to the City Manager. Such appeal must be made at least ten
working days before the date of the special event and only after all issues
relevant to the permit process have been determined. Upon receipt of the
appeal, the City Manager will have up to ten working days to determine whether
relief should be granted.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-7 APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The special event coordinator shall issue a permit to the operator if
the application complies with this chapter and guidelines approved under this
chapter, and approves the map of the area showing the location of services,
street closures and equipment for the event.
   (B)   The special event coordinator shall not issue a permit until the
operator has paid the permit fees associated with the special event.
   (C)   The special event coordinator shall not issue a permit unless the
description of the event in the application and related documents meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-8 EVENT ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The operator may not block a street in a manner that prevents the free
movement of pedestrians into and out of the closure area.
   (B)   If an entry fee is charged for an event, the operator shall not charge
the fee to:
      (1)   A person who resides or operates a business in the special event
area; or
      (2)   A customer of or a person making a delivery to a business or
residence in the special event area.
   (C)   The operator shall post a sign at each entrance and exit to the event
area visible to all patrons entering the area that includes the amount of the
entry fee, if any, and the rules of access to the event. The operator must post
the sign required under this subsection (C) during the time the entry fee is in
effect.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-9 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   The sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited within the special event area
unless preapproval is obtained from the City Manager and the alcoholic
beverages provided will be sold by an authorized ABLE licensee. The licensee
will exercise due diligence and exert his best efforts to prevent the sale or
possession of alcoholic beverages outside of the area designated for the sale
and consumption of alcohol.
(Ord. 2018-23, passed 8-21-2018)
§ 1-15-10 FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If food or beverages will be sold at the event, those commercial
vendors must be a licensed mobile food vendor through the City.
   (B)   No fee, other than the fee required to become a licensed mobile food
vendor, shall be charged.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-11 ADDITIONAL OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The operator must provide adequate illumination at night to protect
the safety of participants and attendees. Lighting must be adequate to protect
safety, but must not unduly impact neighboring properties.
   (B)   The operator must arrange for the City’s Solid Waste Department to
provide an adequate number of trash receptacles and/or dumpsters at the time of
application.
   (C)   If the operator fails to promptly clean up trash and remove debris
from the special event site within 24 hours after the end of the special event
or prior to reopening streets, whichever is earlier, the City shall provide the
cleanup and charge the operator for all costs incurred to clean the special
event site.
   (D)   The operator shall provide an adequate number of portable toilets,
including accessible toilets, based on the estimated number of participants and
attendees at the event, as specified by the Oklahoma Department of Health. The
operator shall not place a portable toilet within 25 feet of an entryway to an
adjacent business or residence, unless the adjacent property owner or tenant
approves a distance of less than 25 feet.
   (E)   The operator must provide assurance that adequate first aid and
emergency medical services are available at the site in light of the nature of
the event, its expected duration and the number of persons reasonably expected
to attend.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-12 EXEMPTION FOR THE CITY.
   The City Manager, or designee, may waive some or all fees associated with
the event if the application meets the following criteria.
   (A)   Special events for economic development. Priority is given to projects
that demonstrate an ability to generate overnight visitors to the City. This
can be demonstrated through:
      (1)   Historic information on the number of room nights used the previous
years of the same activities;
      (2)   Prospective information on a room block that has been reserved at
area hotels for anticipated overnight guests; and
      (3)   Marketing of programs and activities in the event which will
encourage overnight visitors to use local lodging properties.
   (B)   Special events for community involvement:
      (1)   The special event will feature free community entertainment;
      (2)   The special event will not require a vendor fee, participation fee
or entrance fee;
      (3)   Anyone in the community is able to attend and participate; and
      (4)   Disruption to traffic is minimal.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 1-15-13 OFFENSE AND PENALTY.
   (A)   The operator commits an offense if any person violates the terms of a
street closure permit, closes a street without a permit, damages or destroys
any city property or violates any provisions of this chapter. Each violation,
whether or not committed on the same calendar day, shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (B)   The violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $100 plus costs.
   (C)   An operator who is convicted of violating the terms of a permit issued
under this chapter may not apply for or receive another permit for one year
after the date of violation.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 7-7-2016)
TITLE 2: FINANCE AND TAXATION
   Chapter
      
1.    CITY FINANCES
      
2.    PURCHASING
      
3.    WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AND LIABILITY FUNDS
      
4.    TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
      
5.    MUNICIPAL TAXES
      
6.    FEE SCHEDULE
      
7.    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS
CHAPTER 1: CITY FINANCES
Section
   
2-1-1   City Attorney approve bonds
   
2-1-2   Placement of funds in City Treasury
   
2-1-3   Returned unpaid check processing charge
   
2-1-4   Bond for public improvements
   
2-1-5   Rainy day reserve
   
2-1-6   Fire Department Governmental Fund
   
2-1-7   Police Department Governmental Fund
Cross-reference:
   See also §§ A.5.A—A.5.11 and A.8.1—A.8.15 of the City Charter
§ 2-1-1 CITY ATTORNEY APPROVE BONDS.
   The City Attorney shall approve as to form all bonds which are required to
be filed prior to the issuance of a license or a permit by the City.
(1994 Code, § 2-3) (Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 2-1-2 PLACEMENT OF FUNDS IN CITY TREASURY.
   (A)   Monies into Treasury. Except for those monies which are designated as
compensation, reimbursements or the property of a city officer or employee, all
monies received by city officers or employees shall be placed in the City
Treasury.
   (B)   Investment policy. There is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose
of regulating investments for the City a certain document known as the “City of
Enid Investment Policy”, save and except such portions which may be hereinafter
deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than three copies have been and
are now filed in the Office of the City Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted
and incorporated herein as if fully set out. Any future amendments,
modifications or deletions to such document shall be subject to approval by
resolution of the City Council.
(1994 Code, § 2-4) (Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 2-1-3 RETURNED UNPAID CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE.
   (A)   Charge established. Any person issuing a check for payment of any city
claim or service shall be liable to the City for a returned unpaid check
processing charge in an amount established by the Finance Director, if the
check is returned unpaid by the financial institution on which it is drawn.
   (B)   Basis for charge. The Finance Director shall determine the amount of
such charge based on the City’s actual cost of handling returned unpaid checks
and/or by the prevailing rate charged by city businesses.
   (C)   Charge added to debt. Any returned unpaid check processing charge
imposed by the City shall increase the amount and become a part of the
principal debt.
(1994 Code, § 2-5) (Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 2-1-4 BOND FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Required. Any person who constructs any street, sidewalk, sanitary or
storm sewer or water line which will be dedicated to the public shall, before
the City shall accept such improvement, execute a bond running to the benefit
of the City in an amount equal to the replacement cost of the improvement. Such
bond shall be conditioned to indemnify the City for all expenses incurred by it
in maintaining or repairing such improvement due to defects in construction,
design or workmanship:
      (1)   In the case of streets, sidewalks and storm sewers, for a period of
one year after acceptance by the City; and
      (2)   In the case of sanitary sewers or water lines, for a period of five
years after acceptance.
   (B)   Exception. The provisions of subsection (A) above shall not apply to
improvements in subdivisions which are regulated by the subdivision regulations
of the City.
(1994 Code, § 2-6) (Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 2-1-5 RAINY DAY RESERVE.
   (A)   A rainy day reserve in the amount of three months of working capital,
as determined by the method outlined in subsection (C) below, shall not be
expended or encumbered except as authorized by subsection (B) below. This
reserve is to ensure the continued operations of government in case of
emergency (whether caused by weather, natural disaster or terrorism), or
downswings in the economy that could cause the City’s sources of revenue to
slow or cease. The reserve may be utilized for cash flow and may be retained in
the General Fund.
   (B)   Accordingly, said monies may not be expended unless a resolution is
passed by the City Council outlining the reasons for utilizing the money. Said
resolution must receive an affirmative vote of not less than five members of
the City Council.
   (C)   Prior to the close of each fiscal year, the City Commission should
determine the dollar amount that should be considered the rainy day reserve for
the next fiscal year. This amount should represent three months of working
capital for the City. If at any time the General Fund balance drops to within
$1,000,000 of the rainy day reserve, the Finance Director shall notify the City
Council at their next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 2-1-6 FIRE DEPARTMENT GOVERNMENTAL FUND.
   (A)   Established. This fund was established in conjunction with the passage
of the Public Safety Sales Tax in 2001, to allow the retention of monies and
interest for both capital expenditures and future operations over successive
fiscal years to facilitate the long term planning for the Fire Department and
provide consistent funding that is not as dependent on short term economic
conditions.
   (B)   Funding. The Fire Department Governmental Fund receives one-half of
the Public Safety Sales Tax. A minimum of thirty percent (30%) annually of the
Fire Department Public Safety Sales Tax revenues are reserved and designated
for capital expenditures. All operational costs, including personnel services,
contractual services, maintenance and operations, are provided by the current
Public Safety Sales Tax revenues and additional General Fund revenues as
required for the efficient operation of the department subject to the annual
budgetary review and approval process. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE is defined for the
purpose of this section, as an expenditure of $10,000 or more for equipment
(durable in nature), vehicles, buildings or land. Architectural or engineering
services related to a capital project are considered a capital expenditure.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 2019-04, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 2-1-7 POLICE DEPARTMENT GOVERNMENTAL FUND.
   (A)   Established. This fund was established in conjunction with the passage
of the Public Safety Sales Tax in 2001, to allow the retention of monies and
interest for both capital expenditures and future operations over successive
fiscal years to facilitate the long term planning for the Police Department and
provide consistent funding that is not as dependent on short term economic
conditions.
   (B)   Funding. The Police Department Governmental Fund receives one-half of
the Public Safety Sales Tax. A minimum of thirty percent (30%) annually of the
Police Department Public Safety Sales Tax revenues are reserved and designated
for capital expenditures. All operational costs, including personnel services,
contractual services, maintenance and operations, are provided by the current
Public Safety Sales Tax revenues and additional General Fund revenues as
required for the efficient operation of the Department subject to the annual
budgetary review and approval process. Capital expenditure is defined for the
purpose of this section as an expenditure of $10,000 or more for equipment
(durable in nature), vehicles, buildings or land. Architectural or engineering
services related to a capital project are considered a capital expenditure.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7) (Ord. 2019-04, passed 3-5-2019)
CHAPTER 2: PURCHASING
Section
   
2-2-1   Definitions
   
2-2-2   Purchasing agent
   
2-2-3   Purchasing manual adopted
   
2-2-4   Requisitions or estimates and specifications
   
2-2-5   Formal contract and open market procedure
   
2-2-6   Encumbrance of funds
   
2-2-7   Emergency purchases
   
2-2-8   Compliance with Public Competitive Bidding Act
§ 2-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The City Manager.
   CITY. Refers to the City of Enid, Oklahoma, and means the city government in
all its forms, including not only all city departments, but also any public
trust with the City as a beneficiary, any agency, commission, board or other
person or entity acting for or on behalf of the City, but shall not include any
independent contractor.
   CITY PURCHASING AGENT OR AGENT. The City Manager.
   COMMISSION. The City Council of the City of Enid, Oklahoma.
   CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT TRADE CONTRACTOR SUBCONTRACT. Any public
construction contract exceeding $50,000 in amount that is awarded as a trade
contract in an agency construction management contract or awarded as a
subcontract in an at-risk construction management contract.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Shall not include professional services, contractual
services that are in their nature unique and not subject to competition,
contractual services that can only be procured from sole source vendors, public
construction contracts or maintenance of public property contracts.
   EMERGENCY. Limited to conditions resulting from a sudden unexpected
happening or unforeseen occurrence or condition whereby the public health or
safety is endangered.
   MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY CONTRACT. Any contract, exceeding $100,000 in
amount, or any construction management trade contracts or subcontracts
exceeding $50,000 awarded by the City for the purpose of maintaining or
repairing any public improvement, but shall not include any maintenance or
repair to any equipment, supplies or materials.
   PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT. Any contract, exceeding $100,000 in amount, or
any construction management trade contracts or subcontracts exceeding $50,000
in amount, awarded by the City for the purpose of making any public
improvements or constructing any public building or making repairs to the same,
except where the improvements, construction of any buildings or repairs to the
same are improvements of buildings leased to a person or other legal entity for
private and not public use and no public tax revenue shall be expended on or
for said PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT unless the public tax revenues used for
the project and authorized by a majority of the voters voting at an election
held for that purpose and the public tax revenues do not exceed twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total project cost. The amount of public tax dollars
committed to the project will not exceed a fixed amount established by
resolution prior to or concurrent with approval of the project.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any beneficial or valuable change or addition,
betterment, enhancement or amelioration of or upon any real property, or
interest therein, belonging to a public agency, intended to enhance its value,
beauty or utility, or to adapt it to new or further purposes. The term does not
include direct purchase of equipment, supplies or materials; provided that the
materials are not purchased in increments for an amount of less than $100,000
and used for the purposes of completing a single project, or any personal
property as defined in 62 O.S. § 430.1B (1 and 4).
   PURCHASING COOPERATIVE. An association of public entities working together
to provide leverage in achieving best value and/or the best terms in contracts
awarded through a competitive bidding process.
   RETAINAGE. The difference between the amount earned by the contractor on a
public construction contract, with the work being accepted by the public
agency, and the amount paid on said contract by the public agency.
   SUPPLIES. All supplies, materials and equipment, except those that can only
be procured from sole source vendors or are in their nature unique and not
subject to competition.
   USING AGENCY. Any department, board, commission, agency, division, section,
bureau or other unit in city government using supplies or procuring contractual
services as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 2007-28, passed 9-18-2007; Ord. 2022-23, passed 10-
4-2022)
§ 2-2-2 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   Designation. The city purchasing agent shall be designated by the City
Manager.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The city purchasing agent shall perform all duties
with respect to the purchase of supplies as required by this chapter or other
ordinances and shall have the powers and duties as set forth in the City
Purchasing Manual.
(1994 Code, §§ 2-33, 2-34) (Ord. 2002-46, passed 11-5-2002)
§ 2-2-3 PURCHASING MANUAL ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of regulating purchases
for the City a certain manual known as the City of Enid Purchasing Manual, save
and except such portions which may be hereinafter deleted, modified or amended,
of which not less than three copies have been and are now filed in the Office
of the City Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated herein as
if fully set out: Any future amendments, modifications or deletions to such
manual shall be subject to approval by resolution of the City Council.
(1994 Code, § 2-32) (Ord. 2002-46, passed 11-5-2002)
§ 2-2-4 REQUISITIONS OR ESTIMATES AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All using agencies, either by or with the authorization of the head of the
department under which the using agency operates, shall file with the agent,
detailed requisitions or estimates and specifications of their requirements in
accordance with the purchasing manual or the Public Competitive Bidding Act of
1974, see 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq., as applicable.
(1994 Code, § 2-35) (Prior Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 2002-46, passed 11-5-2002)
§ 2-2-5 FORMAL CONTRACT AND OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All expenditures for supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services,
when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $100,000, shall be purchased by
formal written contract or purchase order from the lowest responsible bidder
after due notice inviting proposals, except that in cases where the prices bid
are higher than prices available under contracts let by the state, the City
shall exercise the option of awarding its own contract or of buying under terms
of the state contract.
   (A)   Notice inviting bids.
      (1)   Newspaper. The agent shall cause to be published notice inviting
bids in at least one daily newspaper in the City at least once, three days
preceding the last day set for the receipt of proposals. The newspaper notice
required herein shall include a general description of the services required or
the articles to be purchased, shall state where bid blanks and specifications
may be secured, and the time and place for opening bids.
      (2)   Bidders list. The agent shall also solicit sealed bids from all
responsible suppliers who have requested their names be added to a “bidders
list”, which the agent shall maintain, by sending a copy of such newspaper
notice or such other notice as will acquaint them with the proposed purchase or
sale. In any case, invitations sent to the vendors or the bidders list shall be
limited to commodities that are similar in character and ordinarily handled by
the trade group in which the invitations are sent.
   (B)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the agent, bid deposits shall
be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall
be entitled to the return of surety where it has been required. A successful
bidder shall forfeit any surety required upon failure on his part to enter a
contract within 20 days after the award.
   (C)   Bid opening procedures.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the Office of the City
Clerk and shall be identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids for supplies, material, equipment or contractual
services shall be opened by the City Clerk at the time and place stated in the
public notices. Such bid openings shall be open to the public and to all
bidders.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
City Clerk and said tabulation shall be available for public inspection in the
Office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   Rejection of bids. The City Council shall have the authority to reject
all bids, parts of all bids or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby. The City shall not accept the bids of a
contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies
due the City.
   (E)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority. The City Council shall have the authority to award
contracts within the purview of this chapter.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining “lowest responsible bidder”, in addition to
price, the following factors shall be considered:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (3)   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of reasons for placing the order
elsewhere shall be prepared by the purchasing agent and shall be a public
record.
      (4)   Tie bids; local vendors. If two or more bids received are for the
same total amount of unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract
shall be awarded to the local bidder.
      (5)   Performance bonds. Prior to an award of a public construction
contract, the person that receives the award shall furnish a bond with good and
sufficient sureties payable to the City in a sum not less than the total sum of
the contract.
      (6)   Prohibition against subdivision. No contract or purchase shall be
subdivided to avoid the requirements of this chapter.
      (7)   No timely bid received. If no timely bid is received after bid
notices have been published on any supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services whose estimated cost exceeds $100,000, the City Council
may direct the City Manager to negotiate the contract with a prospective
supplier or contractor.
   (F)   Open market procedure. All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment
or contractual services of less than the estimated cost of $100,000 may be made
in the open market without newspaper advertisement, without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts and
without prior consent by the City Council.
      (1)   Minimum number of bids. All open market purchases shall, wherever
possible, be based on at least three quotations from suppliers or contractors
and shall be awarded to the lowest secure supplier or contractor in accordance
with the standards set forth in subsection (E)(2) above.
      (2)   Recording. The agent shall keep a record of all open market orders
and the bids submitted in competition thereon, and such records shall also be
open to public inspection at all reasonable times.
   (G)   Waiver of competitive bidding. The City Council may waive the
requirement for competitive contractual bidding for the purchase of supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services when some material feature or
characteristic of the item or service sought to be purchased is unique and the
purchasing agent has certified that said item or service sought to be purchased
is unique and the purchasing agent has certified that said item or service is
available from only one source. A full and complete statement of the reasons
for approving each waiver of competitive bidding shall be entered in the
minutes of the City Council. Nothing in this subsection (G) shall be to
prohibit emergency purchases made in accordance with §
2-2-7.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. 2007-28, passed 9-18-2007; Ord. 2022-23, passed 10-
4-2022)
§ 2-2-6 ENCUMBRANCE OF FUNDS.
   Except in cases of emergency, the agent shall not issue any order for
delivery on a contract or open market purchase until the City Clerk shall have
certified that there is, to the credit of the using agencies concerned, a
sufficient unencumbered appropriation balance in excess of all unpaid
obligations, to defray the amount of such order.
(1994 Code, § 37) (Prior Code, § 2-2-6) (Ord. 2002-46, passed 11-5-2002)
§ 2-2-7 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   By Commission. The provisions of this chapter with reference to notice
and bids shall not apply whenever the City Council declares by a two-thirds
vote of all the members of the City Council that an emergency exists. The
reasons for declaring an emergency and not complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall be entered into the official minutes of the City Council.
   (B)   By City Manager. The City Manager is hereby delegated the authority to
declare an emergency situation, in which event the provisions of this chapter
with reference to notice and bids shall not apply, but such authority shall not
extend to any contract exceeding $150,000 in amount. Whenever the City Manager
shall declare such emergency, he shall notify the City Council of such action
within ten days. Such notification shall contain a statement of the reasons for
the action, and shall be recorded in the official minutes of the City Council.
(1994 Code, § 2-38) (Prior Code, § 2-2-7) (Ord. 2002-46, passed 11-5-2002; Ord.
2022-23, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 2-2-8 COMPLIANCE WITH PUBLIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING ACT.
   All public construction contracts and all maintenance of public property
contracts shall be let and awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, by free
and open competitive bidding after solicitation for sealed bids, in strict
accordance with the provisions of the Competitive Bidding Act of 1974, see 61
O.S. §§ 101 et seq. or as said Act may be hereinafter amended.
(1994 Code § 2-39) (Prior Code, § 2-2-8) (Ord. 2002-46, passed 11-5-2002)
CHAPTER 3: WORKERS’ COMPENSATION AND LIABILITY FUNDS
Section
   
2-3-1   Accounts established
   
2-3-2   Claims and lawsuits
§ 2-3-1 ACCOUNTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   General liability reserve account. A general liability reserve account
shall be established and included in each successive annual city budget, in
such an amount as determined by the City Council, which account shall be used
to pay general claims, liabilities and expenses of the City necessary to
compromise and settle claims and lawsuits filed against the City, its officers
and employees, except as herein provided.
   (B)   Workers’ compensation reserve account. A workers’ compensation reserve
account shall be established and included in each successive annual city
budget, in such an amount as determined by the City Council, which account
shall be used to pay all workers’ compensation claims, judgments, settlements,
medical payments and other expenses of the City necessary to compromise, settle
and extinguish all liabilities, claims and lawsuits filed against the City and
its employees, except as herein provided.
(1994 Code, § 2-12) (Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 2-3-2 CLAIMS AND LAWSUITS.
   (A)   Payment or settlement; approval required. No claim or lawsuit shall be
approved for payment or settled by the City without the approval of a majority
of the City Council. Such approval may be given by the City Council by either
the approval of the claims list containing such claim or lawsuit amount or by
the approval of an appropriate agenda item.
   (B)   Denial of claim. Any general liability claim, which is proposed to be
denied, shall be deemed denied by the City whenever one of the following events
first occurs:
      (1)   More than 90 days expires from the date the claim is filed by
claimant with the City Clerk; or
      (2)   Written notice of denial of the claim is given to the City Council
and neither the Mayor nor any two Commissioners, within ten days of the date of
the written notice, recommends that the matter be considered at the next
regular City Council meeting. After the expiration of such time period with no
such recommendation received by the City Manager, the City Attorney shall send
notice to such claimant that the claim has been denied.
   (C)   Payment from proper account. All claims and lawsuit settlements
approved by the City Council in an amount up to and including $20,000 shall be
paid from the respective general liability or workers’ compensation reserve
account, except as specifically provided by the City Council.
   (D)   Settlements through tax levy; payment time limit and interest.
      (1)   All claims and lawsuit settlements approved by the City Council
greater than $20,000 shall be placed on the judgment rolls and levied as an
increase in ad valorem taxes as provided by 62 O.S. §§ 361 through 365.6 and
435, or as such sections may be hereinafter amended.
      (2)   Such judgments may be sold and assigned to the City’s retirement
plan or such other person or entity chosen by the judgment assignor.
      (3)   Judgments shall be paid in full within three years from their
initial levy, or such later time as necessary to fully pay the amount of the
judgment and interest, and shall bear interest in an amount not to exceed ten
percent (10%) per annum. A court of competent jurisdiction, based on
consideration of evidence of proof, may provide for the judgment to be paid
over a period of not less than one nor more than ten years, at such interest
rate as is provided by 51 O.S. § 159C, or as such section may be hereinafter
amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 2009-06, passed 2-3-2009)
CHAPTER 4: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
Section
   
2-4-1   Fee and charge levied and assessed
   
2-4-2   Manner and method of payment
   
2-4-3   Failure to pay
   
2-4-4   Inspection fee and service charge constitutes lien
§ 2-4-1 FEE AND CHARGE LEVIED AND ASSESSED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual inspection fee and service
charge as provided for in §
2-6B-2 upon the gross revenues for each current year for exchange telephone
transmission service within the limits of the City to compensate for the
expenses incurred and services rendered incident to the exercise of the police
power, supervision, police regulation and police control of the construction of
lines and equipment of said telephone company in the City.
(1994 Code, § 31-106) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 2-4-2 MANNER AND METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   The fee and service charge levied under §
2-4-1 shall be annually due and payable to the City on or before May 1 of each
year and shall be placed in the general revenue of the City.
(1994 Code, § 31-107) (Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 2-4-3 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such inspection
fee and service charge when levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be
ousted from the City, and, in addition thereto, an action may be maintained
against such person, firm or corporation for the amount of the tax, and all
expenses of collecting same, including attorney fees.
(1994 Code, § 31-108) (Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 2-4-4 INSPECTION FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The inspection fee and service charge so imposed shall constitute a first
and prior lien on all the assets located within the City of any person, firm or
corporation engaged in the exchange telephone transmission service within the
city limits.
(1994 Code, § 31-109) (Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
CHAPTER 5: MUNICIPAL TAXES
Section
Article A: Sales Tax
   
2-5A-1   Short title
   
2-5A-2   Purpose
   
2-5A-3   Definitions
   
2-5A-4   Subsisting state permits
   
2-5A-5   Taxes imposed; effective dates; purposes
   
2-5A-6   Sales subject to tax; exemptions
   
2-5A-7   Tax due date
   
2-5A-8   Payment of tax
   
2-5A-9   Tax constitutes prior claim
   
2-5A-10   Classification of taxpayers
   
2-5A-11   Collection by vendors
   
2-5A-12   Returns, remittances and discounts
   
2-5A-13   Delinquencies; interest and penalties
   
2-5A-14   Refund of erroneous payments
   
2-5A-15   Failure to file; fraudulent returns
   
2-5A-16   Records confidential
   
2-5A-17   Provisions cumulative
   
2-5A-18   Amendments
   
2-5A-19   Conformance with state statutes
Article B: Hotel Tax
   
2-5B-1   Short title
   
2-5B-2   Definitions
   
2-5B-3   Powers of Director
   
2-5B-4   Tax levied; rate
   
2-5B-5   Exemptions
   
2-5B-6   Collection of tax by operator
   
2-5B-7   Keeping records
   
2-5B-8   Returns
   
2-5B-9   Payment of tax
   
2-5B-10   Failure to file; assessment and determination of tax
   
2-5B-11   Refunds
   
2-5B-12   Notices
   
2-5B-13   Remedies exclusive
   
2-5B-14   Certificates of registration
   
2-5B-15   Delinquencies; interest
   
2-5B-16   Discount
   
2-5B-17   Records confidential
   
2-5B-18   Fraudulent returns
   
2-5B-19   Amendments
   
2-5B-20   Use of funds
   
2-5B-21   Provisions cumulative
Article C: Use Tax
   
2-5C-1   Definitions
   
2-5C-2   Tax imposed
   
2-5C-3   Exemptions
   
2-5C-4   Tax due date
   
2-5C-5   Tax constitutes debt
   
2-5C-6   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
2-5C-7   Revoking permits
   
2-5C-8   Remittances allowed vendors of other states
   
2-5C-9   Delinquency; interest and penalties
   
2-5C-10   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
2-5C-11   Fraudulent returns
   
2-5C-12   Records confidential
   
2-5C-13   Classification of taxpayers
   
2-5C-14   Subsisting state permits
   
2-5C-15   Purposes of revenues
   
2-5C-16   Automatic change in use tax rate upon change in sales tax rate
Article D: Gross Receipts Tax; Utilities
   
2-5D-1   Tax levied and assessed
   
2-5D-2   Application of tax
   
2-5D-3   Manner and method of payment
   
2-5D-4   Failure to pay
   
2-5D-5   Tax constitutes first and prior lien
ARTICLE A: SALES TAX.
§ 2-5A-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as “City Sales Tax Code”.
(1994 Code, § 31-16) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-1)
§ 2-5A-2 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the government of the City.
(1994 Code, § 31-17) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-2)
§ 2-5A-3 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Statute definitions adopted by reference. The definitions of words,
terms and phrases contained in 68 O.S. § 1352 of the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
   (B)   Tax collector. As used in this article, the term TAX COLLECTOR shall
mean the department of the City or the official agency of the state duly
designated by law or contract and authorized by law to administer the
collection of the tax levied under this article.
(1994 Code, § 31-18) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-3)
Statutory reference:
   Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§ 2-5A-4 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.,
are, for the purpose of this article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in
lieu of any requirements for an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(1994 Code, § 31-19) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-4)
§ 2-5A-5 TAXES IMPOSED; EFFECTIVE DATES; PURPOSES.
   An excise tax in the amount specified in §
2-6B-1(A) is hereby levied upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived
from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, including the
following.
   (A)   Additional one percent (1%) sales tax; purpose; termination. It is
hereby declared that the additional one percent (1%) sales tax levied by the
ordinance codified herein shall be in addition to all other sales tax levied by
the City and said sales tax proceeds shall be transferred to the Enid Municipal
Authority to be used for capital improvements benefiting the City, including,
but not limited to, the payment of debt service on any indebtedness incurred by
the authority for said purposes, including principal, interest and any reserve
requirements; provided that the additional one percent (1%) sales tax provided
for hereby shall terminate and shall cease to be levied after March 31, 2042.
   (B)   Additional one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax for roads and
streets; purpose and termination. There is hereby imposed an excise tax of one-
fourth of one percent (¼%) in addition to any and all other excise tax which is
now in force to be levied upon the gross proceeds or receipts derived from all
sales taxable under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. The purpose of this tax is to
provide revenues for the following purposes.
      (1)   During the first eight years of collection (April 1, 2003—March 31,
2011) of the one-fourth of one percent (¼%) excise tax, the revenues generated
pursuant to said tax will be split with fifty percent (50%) being placed in the
City’s street improvement fund to be used as set forth in subsection (B)(1)(a)
below. The remaining fifty percent (50%) of the proceeds will be used for
construction or improvement of public school facilities or debt service in
connection with construction or improvement of public school facilities as set
forth in subsection (B)(1)(b) below.
         (a)   1.   The proceeds of the city excise tax referenced in this
subsection (B)(1) that are placed in the City Street Improvement Fund shall
only be used to design, engineer, construct, improve and maintain the roads and
streets listed below:
               a.   Breckinridge Road from 66th Street to 78th Street;
               b.   Chestnut Avenue from Cleveland Street to Van Buren Street;
               c.   Cleveland Street from Garriott Road to Fox Drive;
               d.   Fox Drive from Cleveland Street to Van Buren Street;
               e.   Independence Avenue from Chestnut Avenue to Willow Road;
               f.   Maine Avenue from Van Buren Street to 4th Street;
               g.   Pride Drive from Van Buren Street to Fox Drive;
               h.   Randolph Avenue from Cleveland Street to Oakwood Road;
               i.   Randolph Avenue from 19th Street to 25th Street;
               j.   Randolph Avenue from 30th Street to 42nd Street;
               k.   Washington Street from Garriott Road to Randolph Avenue;
               l.   Willow Road from 42nd Street to 54th Street; and
               m.   16th Street from Chestnut Avenue to Birch Avenue.
            2.   Provided, however, that upon completion of the improvement of
the above named streets and roads, if there are any unspent collected revenues,
same shall be used only to fund right-of-way acquisition, utility relocations
and the local portion of engineering and construction costs for the streets and
roads listed below:
               a.   Garriott Road widening from Johnson Street to Jackson
Street; and
               b.   Willow Road widening from Cleveland Street to Oakwood Road.
            3.   To improve and/or maintain the streets listed in Ordinances
98-26 and 2002-23 and/or additional streets in the city arterial street system
as identified by the arterial street condition inspection report.
         (b)   The proceeds of the city excise tax referenced in this
subsection (B)(1) that are designated for the public schools shall be used for
construction or improvement of public school facilities or debt service in
connection with construction or improvement of public school facilities for the
following county independent school districts: Enid 57, Chisholm 42, Pioneer/
Pleasant Vale 56, Drummond 95, Kremlin-Hillsdale 18, Waukomis 1 and Garber 47.
The amounts allocated to each school district shall be based on the relative
student population of each school district in the City. The percentages of the
tax allocated to each school district shall be established on or about April 1,
2003, and shall remain the same for the 15 year duration of the tax.
      (2)   (a)   During the last seven years of collection (April 1,
2011—March 31, 2018) of the one-fourth of one percent (¼%) excise tax, one
hundred percent (100%) of the revenues generated pursuant to said tax shall be
made available to those schools listed in subsection (B)(1)(b) above and same
shall be allocated and utilized as set forth in subsection (B)(1)(b) above.
         (b)   Provided further that the additional one-fourth of one percent
(¼%) excise tax provided for hereby shall terminate on March 31, 2018. See also
subsection (F) below.
   (C)   Additional one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax; purpose and
termination.
      (1)   It is hereby declared that an additional one-fourth percent (¼%)
sales tax levied beginning April 1, 2000, by the ordinance codified herein,
shall be in addition to the other sales tax levied by Ordinances 4021, 80-4,
82-14 and 98-26, as may be hereafter amended from time to time, and the
proceeds of such sales tax shall be used (see also subsection (D) below):
         (a)   To purchase real property and buildings to house a StarTek, Inc.
facility to be located in the City, as will be further specified in an
agreement(s) to be negotiated; and/or
         (b)   To provide funds for inducing StarTek, Inc., to locate one of
its facilities in the City, in consideration for the economic enrichment of the
residents of the City by the creation of new jobs and to pay off any
indebtedness incurred by the Enid Economic Development Authority for such
purposes; and
         (c)   Any incidental monies collected that are not required for the
above stated purpose shall be utilized for payment of debt service on the
obligations of the Enid Municipal Authority; provided that the additional one-
fourth percent (¼%) sales tax shall terminate within 30 days after the final
payment on any indebtedness of the Enid Economic Development Authority secured
by this sales tax, but in no event to extend more than September 30, 2002. See
also subsection (E) below.
      (2)   The following ordinances affect this subsection (C):
         (a)   Ord. 82-14 §§ 3, 4, April 8, 1982;
         (b)   Ord. 85-19 § 1, June 18, 1985;
         (c)   Ord. 87-16 § 3, April 16, 1987;
         (d)   Ord. 90-30 § 1, August 7, 1990;
         (e)   Ord. 91-04 § 1, January 15, 1991;
         (f)   Ord. 98-26 § 1, September 1, 1998;
         (g)   Ord. 99-38 § 1, November 8, 1999; and
         (h)   Ord. 2000-23 § 1, August 15, 2000.
   (D)   Additional one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax for public safety
purposes.
      (1)   It is hereby declared that an additional one-fourth of one percent
(¼%) sales tax levied beginning April 1, 2001, by the ordinance codified herein
shall be in addition to the other sales tax levied in this section, and the
proceeds of such sales tax shall be separated, accounted for and placed in the
City’s Public Safety Limited Tax Fund. Monies in said account shall be
accumulated from year to year if not expended for the purpose herein provided
and the interest which accrues in said fund shall be retained in the fund. The
monies in said fund shall be expended only as accumulated and only for the
limited purposes set forth herein.
      (2)   Provided further, that one-half of the proceeds shall be expended
for the Fire Department and one-half of the proceeds shall be expended for the
Police Department.
      (3)   Provided further, that at least thirty percent (30%) of the
revenues generated by the tax will be spent on capital expenditures.
   (E)   Continuation of one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax levied per
subsection (C) above; purpose and termination. It is hereby declared that the
one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax levied to provide funds to StarTek,
Inc., per subsection (C) above, shall be continued and the proceeds of such
sales tax shall be used as follows.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the funds required for the benefits of StarTek,
Inc., pursuant to subsection (C) above, all proceeds of said one-fourth of one
percent (¼%) sales tax shall be used for economic development through
assistance in the retention of Vance Air Force Base by the construction of a
new addition at and renovation of Eisenhower School located adjacent to Vance
Air Force Base. Said proceeds shall be expended pursuant to the Eisenhower
School agreement between the City and Independent School District 57 of the
county.
      (2)   The one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax levied pursuant to
this subsection (E) shall continue until such time as there has been collected
$700,000; provided said sales tax shall be terminated and will cease to be
levied no later than December 31, 2002.
      (3)   Any incidental monies collected and not required for the purpose
stated in this subsection (E) shall be placed in the City’s Street Improvement
Fund.
   (F)   Continuation of one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax levied per
subsection (B) above; purpose and termination. It is hereby declared that the
one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax levied to fund street improvements and
public school improvements, pursuant to subsection (B) above, shall be
continued and the proceeds of such sales tax shall be used as follows.
      (1)   All proceeds shall be used to fund capital expenditures pertaining
to water system improvements related or incidental to the construction of a
water transmission pipeline from Kaw Lake to the City and related water
treatment, storage and distribution facilities and debt service in connection
with the financing of said facilities.
      (2)   The one-fourth of one percent (¼%) sales tax levied pursuant to
this subsection (F) shall be terminated and will cease to be levied no later
than March 31, 2052.
   (G)   Additional three-fourths of one percent (¾%) sales tax; purpose and
termination. It is hereby declared that an additional three-fourths of one
percent (¾%) sales tax levied beginning January 1, 2017, by the ordinance
codified herein shall be in addition to the other sales tax levied in this
section, and the proceeds of such sales tax shall be used as follows.
      (1)   All proceeds shall be used to fund capital expenditures pertaining
to water system improvements related or incidental to the construction of a
water transmission pipeline from Kaw Lake to the City and related water
treatment, storage and distribution facilities and debt service in connection
with the financing of said facilities.
      (2)   The three-fourths of one percent (¾%) sales tax levied pursuant to
this subsection (G) shall be terminated and will cease to be levied no later
than March 31, 2052.
(Prior Code, § 2-5A-5) (Ord. 2016-24, passed 9-20-2016)
Editor’s note:
   The provisions of subsection (A) shall become effective on and after March
4, 2008, subject to approval by a majority of the qualified electors of the
City, voting on the same in the manner prescribed by law. Sales tax levied
pursuant to the provisions of Ord. 82-14 and not expended by the City prior to
March 4, 2008, shall be used for the amended purposes set forth in subsection
(A). Sales tax received by the City on and after March 4, 2008, shall be used
for the amended purposes set forth in subsection (A). Subject to approval by a
majority of the registered voters of the City, voting on same as prescribed by
law, subsection (B) will become effective on or after February 11, 2003, with
the collection of the excise tax to begin April 1, 2003.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy such a tax, see 68 O.S. § 2701
§ 2-5A-6 SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS.
   The city sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross
proceeds of such sales as specified by the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, and
exemptions from such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to said Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code.
(2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-6)
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions, see 68 O.S. §§ 1355 et seq.
§ 2-5A-7 TAX DUE DATE.
   The tax levied under this article shall be due and payable at the time and
in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
(1994 Code, § 31-28) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-7)
Statutory reference:
   Due date of tax, see 68 O.S. § 1365
§ 2-5A-8 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time and in
the manner and form prescribed for payment of state sales tax under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
(1994 Code, § 31-29) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-8)
Statutory reference:
   Payment of tax, see 68 O.S. § 1365
§ 2-5A-9 TAX CONSTITUTES PRIOR CLAIM.
   Taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(1994 Code, § 31-30) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-9)
§ 2-5A-10 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers shall be as
prescribed by state law for the purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
(1994 Code, § 31-31) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-10)
§ 2-5A-11 COLLECTION BY VENDORS.
   (A)   Collector of tax. The tax levied under this article shall be paid by
the consumer or user to the vendor, and each and every vendor shall collect
from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied, or an amount equal
as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Tax added to sales price or charge. Vendors shall add the tax imposed
hereunder, or the average equivalent thereof, to the sales price or charge,
and, when added, such tax shall constitute a part of such price or charge,
shall be a debt from the consumer or user to vendor until paid, and shall be
recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts.
   (C)   Failure to collect tax. No vendor shall intentionally fail, neglect or
refuse to:
      (1)   Collect the full amount of the tax levied; or
      (2)   Comply with the provisions of this article.
   (D)   Rebate of tax to consumer. No vendor shall permit or rebate to a
consumer or user either directly or indirectly, or by whatsoever means, all or
any part of the tax herein levied.
   (E)   Absorbing tax. No vendor shall make in any form of advertising,
verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he is absorbing the tax,
or paying the tax for the consumer or user by adjustment of prices or at a
price including tax, or in any manner whatsoever.
(1994 Code § 31-32) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 1361 et seq.
§ 2-5A-12 RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
Remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for collection of state sales tax.
(1994 Code, § 31-33) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-12)
§ 2-5A-13 DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Interest and penalties; discount forfeiture.
      (1)   Statute adopted. 68 O.S. § 217, the Uniform Tax Procedure Code, is
hereby adopted and made a part of this article.
      (2)   Interest and penalties; rates. Interest and penalties at the rates
and in amounts specified in the state statute cited in subsection (A)(1) above
are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting
and paying the tax levied by this article.
      (3)   Delinquency. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
      (4)   Discount forfeiture. If such delinquency continues for a period of
five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under
this article.
   (B)   Waiver of interest and penalties.
      (1)   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason
of a taxpayer’s failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived or
remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220 of
the Uniform Tax Procedure Code.
      (2)   To accomplish the purposes of this subsection (B), the applicable
provisions of said § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this article.
(1994 Code, §§ 31-34 and 31-35) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-13)
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Tax Procedure Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 201 et seq.
§ 2-5A-14 REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with statute. Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales
tax herein levied may be made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in
the same manner and procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as
provided for administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. §
227 of the Uniform Tax Procedure Code.
   (B)   Statute adopted. To accomplish the purposes of this section, the
applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this article.
(1994 Code, § 31-36) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-14)
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Tax Procedure Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 201 et seq.
§ 2-5A-15 FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Intentionally fail or refuse to make tax reports and remittances as
required under this article;
   (B)   Intentionally make false and fraudulent tax reports for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof due under this
article; or
   (C)   The violation of this section shall be a Class A offense.
(1994 Code, § 31-37) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-15)
§ 2-5A-16 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the
Uniform Tax Procedure Code, and all subsections thereof are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city
sales tax as if here set forth in full.
(1994 Code, § 31-38) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-16)
§ 2-5A-17 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this article shall be cumulative, and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of this code.
(1994 Code, § 31-39) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-17)
§ 2-5A-18 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the City hereby authorize the City Council to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administration and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the City as
provided by law.
(1994 Code, § 31-40) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-18)
§ 2-5A-19 CONFORMANCE WITH STATE STATUTES.
   (A)   Ad valorem tax levy. Notwithstanding any other provision contained in
this article.
      (1)   The General Fund shall comprehend and include all appropriations
and expenditures financed from levy of ad valorem tax under any of the
provisions of the Oklahoma Constitution, Article 10, § 9, and all revenues from
sources other than ad valorem taxation, except the proceeds derived from the
sale of bonds and those revenues specifically required by law to be deposited
into the sinking fund, the building or replacement funds or in cash funds, or
in any other fund or funds so specifically denominated by statute.
      (2)   If a portion of the ad valorem levies under said Oklahoma
Constitution, Article 10, § 9, and specific revenues from other sources, be
required by law to be devoted to a special purpose, other than those
specifically required to be accounted for in cash funds, such special purpose
shall be provided for by a special budget account within the General Fund,
distinguished from the governmental budget account, and assigned such
appropriation account or accounts as will accomplish such special purpose and
include sums at least equivalent to the net estimate of revenues or levy thus
specially applied.
      (3)   The revenues set out in subsections (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall
be placed into the proper and respective general fund or special budget account
within the General Revenue Fund of the City, and shall be subject to annual
appropriations by the City Council pursuant to 68 O.S. § 3019 to support a
proper governmental purpose.
   (B)   Compliance with statute. 68 O.S., as hereinafter amended, shall be
strictly complied with by the City in matters of municipal revenue and
taxation.
(1994 Code, § 31-41) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-5A-19)
ARTICLE B: HOTEL TAX
§ 2-5B-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known and cited as the “Enid Hotel Tax Ordinance”.
(1994 Code, § 31-56) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-1)
§ 2-5B-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Chief Financial Officer of the City.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings, structures, trailer or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in
which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation of such guests whether
such rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall include hotels,
apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or courts, lodging houses,
inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer motels, dormitory space where bed
space is rented to individuals or groups, apartments occupied by temporary
residents, and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or space
are furnished for a consideration. The term shall not include hospitals,
sanatoriums or nursing homes.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
   OCCUPANT. A person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right to access, license to use or other agreement.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel in this city, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
   ROOM. Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which
is available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, PLACE OF ASSEMBLY means a room or space
which is capable of being occupied by 75 or more persons and which is used for
educational, recreational or amusement purposes and shall include: dance halls,
cabarets; nightclubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or private
banquets, feasts, social, card parties or weddings; lodge and meeting halls or
rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiards, bowling and table
tennis; tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering
purposes; funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls;
broadcasting studios; and all other places of similar type of occupancy.
   TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this article.
(Prior Code, § 2-5B-2) (Ord. 2013-28, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 2-5B-3 POWERS OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to all other powers granted to the Director, he
is hereby authorized and empowered:
      (1)   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this article for the purposes thereof; for a period not
exceeding 60 days; and for cause shown to waive, remit or reduce penalties or
interest;
      (2)   To delegate his functions hereunder to an assistant or other
employee or employees of the City;
      (3)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes
imposed by this article; and
      (4)   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable
rents.
   (B)   Administration of oaths and compelling testimony. The Director, or his
designated representative, shall have the power to administer oaths and take
affidavits in relation to any matter or proceeding in the exercise of their
powers and duties under this article. The Director shall have the power to
subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production of books,
papers and documents to secure information pertinent to the performance of his
duties hereunder and to the enforcement of this article and to examine them in
relation thereto.
(1994 Code, §§ 31-70, 31-71) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-3)
§ 2-5B-4 TAX LEVIED; RATE.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax as provided for in §
2-6B-1(B) of this title upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from
all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a hotel in the City, except
that the tax shall not be imposed where the rent is less than the rate of $3
per day.
(2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-4) (Ord. 2002-17, passed 7-2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for such a tax, see 68 O.S. § 2701
§ 2-5B-5 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions enumerated. The following shall be exempt from the tax
levied in this article:
      (1)   The United States government or any agency or division thereof; and
      (2)   The State of Oklahoma or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Certificate of exemption. Anyone claiming to be exempt from the tax
must furnish proof to the Director of such exemption and obtain from the
Director a certificate of the exemption.
(Prior Code, § 2-5B-5) (Ord. 2013-28, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 2-5B-6 COLLECTION OF TAX BY OPERATOR.
   (A)   Tax separately designated on bills. The operator shall separately
designate, charge and show the tax on all bills, statements, receipts or any
other evidence of charges or payment of rent for occupancy issued or delivered
by the operator.
   (B)   Responsibility for collection. The operator shall be responsible for
the collection of the tax from the occupant and shall be liable to the City for
the tax.
(1994 Code, §§ 31-61, 31-62) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-6)
§ 2-5B-7 KEEPING RECORDS.
   Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged or due thereon and of the tax payable therein in such form as the
Director may by regulations require. Such records shall be available for
inspection and examination at any time upon demand by the Director, or a duly
authorized agent or employee of the City, and shall be preserved for a period
of three years, except that the Director may consent to their destruction
within that period or may require that they be kept longer.
(1994 Code, § 31-63) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-7)
§ 2-5B-8 RETURNS.
   (A)   Time of filing. Every operator, on or before the twentieth day of each
month, shall file with the Director a return of occupancy and rents and of the
taxes payable thereon for the preceding calendar month after the effective date
of this article.
   (B)   Authority of Director. The Director may permit or require returns to
be made by shorter or longer periods and upon such dates as he may specify. The
form of return shall be prescribed by the Director and shall contain such
information as he may deem necessary for the proper administration of this
article. The Director may require amended returns to be filed within 20 days
after notice and to contain the information specified in the notice.
(1994 Code, § 31-64) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-8)
§ 2-5B-9 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator
shall pay to the Director the taxes imposed by this article upon the rents
included in such return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator
acting or purporting to act under the provisions of this article. All the taxes
for the period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due from the
operator and payable to the Director on or before the date fixed for the filing
of the return for such period without regard to whether a return is filed or
whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents and the
taxes due thereon.
(1994 Code,§ 31-65) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-9)
§ 2-5B-10 FAILURE TO FILE; ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX.
   If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return when filed
is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the
Director from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the tax
may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms,
location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and
services, number of employees or other factors. Written notice of such
assessments shall be given to the person liable for the collection and payment
of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the
tax unless the person against whom it is assessed, within 90 days after the
giving of notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the City
Council, or its designee, for a hearing or unless the Director on his own
motion shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the City Council, or its
designee, shall give written notice of its determination to the person against
whom the tax is assessed and such determination shall be final.
(1994 Code, § 31-66) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-10)
§ 2-5B-11 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Application for refund; allowing credit.
      (1)   The Director shall refund or credit any tax erroneously, illegally
or unconstitutionally collected if written application to the Director for such
refund shall be made within two years from the date of payment thereof. For
like causes, and in the same period, a refund may be so made upon the
initiative and the order of the Director.
      (2)   Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in
writing. Such application may also be made by the person who has collected and
paid such tax to the Director; provided that the application is made within two
years of the payment by the occupant to the operator, but no refund of money
shall be made to the operator until he has repaid to the occupant the amount
for which the application for refund is made.
      (3)   The Director, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow
credit therefor on payment due from the applicant.
   (B)   Investigation; notice of determination. Upon application for a refund,
the Director may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such
investigation as he deems necessary. After making a determination as to the
refund, the Director shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such
determination shall be final unless the applicant, within 90 days after such
notice, shall apply in writing to the Director, or his designee, for a hearing.
After such hearing, the Director, or his designee, shall give written notice of
his decision to the applicant.
(1994 Code, § 31-67) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-11)
§ 2-5B-12 NOTICES.
   Notices provided for under this article shall be deemed to have been given
when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in
the United States mail to the last known address of the operator.
(1994 Code, § 31-68) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-12)
§ 2-5B-13 REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided in this article shall be exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article.
(1994 Code, § 31-69) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-13)
§ 2-5B-14 CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   Every operator shall file with the Director a certificate of registration in
a form prescribed by said Director within ten days after the effective date
hereof, or in the case of operators commencing business or opening new hotels
after such effective date, within three days after such commencement or
opening. The Director shall, within five days after such registration, issue,
without charge, to each operator a certificate of authority empowering such
operator to collect the tax from the occupant and duplicates thereof for each
additional hotel. Each certificate or duplicate shall state the hotel to which
it is applicable. Such certificate of authority shall be permanently displayed
by the operator in such manner that it may be seen and comes to the notice of
all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificates shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
Director upon the cessation of business at the hotel named, or upon its sale or
transfer.
(1994 Code, § 31-72) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-14)
§ 2-5B-15 DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. The tax levied by this article shall be due and
payable at the time filing of the returns provided for in this article is
required. All taxes not paid when they become due shall be delinquent.
   (B)   Interest. If any tax levied by this article becomes delinquent, the
person responsible and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid
tax at the rate of one and one-half percent (1½%) per month on the unpaid
balance from the date of delinquency.
(1994 Code, §§ 31-73, 31-74) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-15)
§ 2-5B-16 DISCOUNT.
   In order to remunerate an operator for keeping tax records, filing reports
and remitting the tax when due, a three percent (3%) discount shall be allowed
upon all taxes paid prior to the time they become delinquent.
(1994 Code§ 31-75) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-16)
§ 2-5B-17 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the Uniform Tax
Procedure Code, and each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the tax as if herein
set forth.
(1994 Code, § 31-76) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-17)
§ 2-5B-18 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   The willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer or operator to make any
timely reports and remittances therein required, or the making of any false and
fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or
portion thereof rightfully due under this article shall be a Class C offense;
and each day shall be considered a separate offense.
(1994 Code, § 31-77) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-18)
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Tax Procedure Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 201 et seq.
§ 2-5B-19 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the City, by their approval of this article at the election
herein provided, hereby authorize the City Council by ordinances duly enacted
to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method
and manner of administration and enforcing this article as may be necessary or
proper for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein
provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the
City as provided by law.
(1994 Code, § 31-78) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-19)
§ 2-5B-20 USE OF FUNDS.
   All taxes collected pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be set
aside and used exclusively for the purpose of encouraging, promoting and
fostering the convention and tourism development of the City, with five percent
(5%) of the proceeds to be used to operate, renovate, manage and furnish the
Enid Event Center And Convention Hall Complex and three percent (3%) to be used
by the Garfield County Fairgrounds Trust Authority to operate, manage, renovate
and furnish the Chisholm Trail Expo Center.
(Prior Code, § 2-5B-20) (Ord. 2013-28, passed 5-6-2013)
§ 2-5B-21 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(1994 Code, § 31-80) (Prior Code, § 2-5B-21)
ARTICLE C: USE TAX
§ 2-5C-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Use
Tax Code, see 68 O.S. § 1401 et seq., and as hereinafter amended, are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this article. In addition thereto, for
the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Enid, Oklahoma.
   TAX COLLECTOR. As used herein, means the department of the municipal
government or the official agency of the state, duly designated according to
law or contract authorized by law, to administer the collection of the tax
herein levied.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(1994 Code, § 31-81) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-1)
§ 2-5C-2 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the City tangible personal property
purchased or brought into the City, an excise tax on the storage, use or other
consuming within the City of such property at a rate as specified in §
2-6B-1(C) of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by
every person storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the City, tangible
personal property purchased or brought into the City. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the City and shall be assessed to only the property purchased outside
the state; provided that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible personal property intended solely for use outside the City, but which
is stored in the City pending shipment outside the City or which is temporarily
retained in the City for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the City had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(1994 Code, § 31-82) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-2)
§ 2-5C-3 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible personal property
brought into the City by a nonresident individual visiting in the City for his
personal use or enjoyment while within the City;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property on
which a tax, equal to, or in excess of, that levied by both the Oklahoma Use
Tax Code and this article, has been paid by the person using such tangible
personal property in the City, whether such tax was levied under the laws of
Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United States. If any
article of tangible personal property has already been subjected to a tax by
Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or use, in
an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma Use Tax Code and this
article, the tax owed under this article shall be measured by the difference
only between the rate provided by both the Oklahoma Use Tax Code and this
article, and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was
computed. Provided that no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another
state or municipality, if that state or municipality does not grant like credit
for taxes paid in the state and the City;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the City, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons for the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the City. Provided, this exemption
shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and
is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation
under the Sales Tax Code of the City. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean
those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing
operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible personal property now, or as
hereinafter provided, which is specifically exempted from taxation under the
Sales Tax Code of the City;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
brought into the City by an individual with intent to become a resident of the
City where such personal property is for such individual’s personal use or
enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; and/or
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
the City for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(1994 Code, § 31-83) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-3)
§ 2-5C-4 TAX DUE DATE.
   The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the Oklahoma
Use Tax Code.
(1994 Code, § 31-84) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-4)
§ 2-5C-5 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(1994 Code, § 31-85) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-5)
§ 2-5C-6 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Places of business within and without state. Every retailer or vendor
maintaining places of business both within and without the state, and making
sales of tangible personal property from a place of business outside this state
for use in this city shall at the time of making such sales collect the use tax
levied by this article from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt
therefor in the manner and form prescribed by the Oklahoma Tax Commission, if
the Oklahoma Tax Commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each
retailer or vendor shall list with the Oklahoma Tax Commission the name and
address of all his agents operating in the City and location of any and all
distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of businesses in the
City.
   (B)   Places of business outside state; permits. The Oklahoma Tax Commission
may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax
herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business
within this state but who makes sales of tangible personal property for use in
the City and by the out-of-state place of business of any retailer or vendor
maintaining places of business both within and without the state and making
sales of tangible personal property at such out-of-state place of business for
use in the City. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a
permit to collect such taxes by the Oklahoma Tax Commission, in such manner and
subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so
authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax
upon all tangible personal property sold to his knowledge for use within this
city. Such authority and permit may be cancelled when at any time the Oklahoma
Tax Commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from
the person using such property in the City. Provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within the City by the retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s
vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or
transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable municipal sales tax at
the point of delivery, and the tax shall be collected and reported under
taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(1994 Code, §§ 31-86 and 31-87) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-6)
§ 2-5C-7 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code or any order, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
Tax Commission, the Oklahoma Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as
provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state, may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, or
any order, rules and regulations of the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
(1994 Code, § 31-88) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-7)
§ 2-5C-8 REMITTANCES ALLOWED VENDORS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Oklahoma Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount
as prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code; and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(1994 Code, § 31-89) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-8)
§ 2-5C-9 DELINQUENCY; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Compliance with statute. 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a
part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the
amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases
of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this article. Provided
that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this article
shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency
continues for a period of five days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his
claim to any discount allowed under this article.
   (B)   Waiver of interest and penalties. The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay
the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220 and to accomplish the purposes of this
section the applicable provisions of said § 220 are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this article.
(1994 Code, §§ 31-90 and 31-91) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-9)
§ 2-5C-10 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
(1994 Code, § 31-92) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-10)
§ 2-5C-11 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this article shall be a Class C offense. Each day of noncompliance with this
article shall constitute a separate offense.
(1994 Code, § 31-93) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-11)
§ 2-5C-12 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared; and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the
Oklahoma Uniform Tax Procedure Code and each subsection thereof, is hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the municipal use tax as if herein set forth in full.
(1994 Code, § 31-94) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-12)
§ 2-5C-13 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma Use Tax Code.
(1994 Code, § 31-95) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-13)
§ 2-5C-14 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Use Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional municipal permit for the same purpose.
(1994 Code, § 31-96) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-14)
§ 2-5C-15 PURPOSES OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the City, and
any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the City Council for
any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized.
(1994 Code, § 31-97) (Prior Code, § 2-5C-15)
§ 2-5C-16 AUTOMATIC CHANGE IN USE TAX RATE UPON CHANGE IN SALES TAX RATE.
   The rate of excise tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall automatically
adjust to match the prevailing sales tax rate levied by the municipality, such
change in use tax rate to be effective on the date the change in the prevailing
sales tax rate takes effect, and such change in use tax rate not requiring
further approval of the governing body of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 2-5C-16) (Ord. 2016-24, passed 9-20-2016)
ARTICLE D: GROSS RECEIPTS TAX; UTILITIES
§ 2-5D-1 TAX LEVIED AND ASSESSED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon
the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of power, light, heat,
gas, electricity or water in the City, which tax shall be in lieu of any other
franchise, license, occupation or excise tax levied by the City, all as
provided by 68 O.S. §§ 2601 through 2605.
(1994 Code, § 31-101) (Prior Code, § 2-5D-1)
§ 2-5D-2 APPLICATION OF TAX.
   The tax levied under §
2-5D-1 shall, when levied, apply to all persons, firms, associations or
corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power, light, heat, gas,
electricity or water within the city limits, except that it shall not apply to
any person, firm, association or corporation operating under a valid franchise
from the City, or furnished by the City.
(1994 Code, § 31-102) (Prior Code, § 2-5D-2)
§ 2-5D-3 MANNER AND METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   The tax authorized to be levied under §
2-5D-1 shall be levied for a term of not less than one year, except such tax
shall not be authorized to be levied on any person, firm, association or
corporation at any time after such person, firm, association or corporation is
issued a valid franchise authorized by a majority vote of the citizens of the
City voting in such franchise election. The tax shall be payable quarterly and
shall be placed in the general revenue of the City.
(1994 Code, § 31-103) (Prior Code, § 2-5D-3)
§ 2-5D-4 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the City and,
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting the same,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(1994 Code, § 31-104) (Prior Code, § 2-5D-4)
§ 2-5D-5 TAX CONSTITUTES FIRST AND PRIOR LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the City of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water within the
city limits.
(1994 Code, § 31-105) (Prior Code, § 2-5D-5)
CHAPTER 6: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
Article A: Administrative, Miscellaneous Fees
   
2-6A-1   Copies of public records; document search
   
2-6A-2   Metered parking rates
   
2-6A-3   Reserved
   
2-6A-4   Reserved
   
2-6A-5   Amplifying equipment in parks
   
2-6A-6   Reserved
   
2-6A-7   Public ways
Article B: Business Related Fees
   
2-6B-1   Municipal taxes
   
2-6B-2   Telephone exchanges
   
2-6B-3   Application for ABLE certification; investigation
   
2-6B-4   Ambulance service
   
2-6B-5   Alarm system permit and reinstatement fee
   
2-6B-6   CATV license fees
   
2-6B-7   Childcare center or nursing home license
   
2-6B-8   Food service establishments
   
2-6B-9   Solicitors
   
2-6B-10   Pawnbroker, secondhand dealer and scrap metal dealer regulatory fee
   
2-6B-11   Garage and home sale permit
   
2-6B-12   Mobile homes; mobile home parks
   
2-6B-13   Reserved
   
2-6B-14   Reserved
   
2-6B-15   Arborist’s license
   
2-6B-16   Salvage yard/impound lot license
   
2-6B-17   Oil wells
   
2-6B-18   Temporary industrial work force housing parks
   
2-6B-19   Right-of-way licensing fees
   
2-6B-20   Fee for inspection and certification for OMMA businesses
Article C: City Services and Facilities
   
2-6C-1   Enid Woodring Regional Airport
   
2-6C-2   Landfill permit fees
   
2-6C-3   Library fees and access
   
2-6C-4   Meadowlake Golf Course, rates and fees
   
2-6C-5   Reserved
   
2-6C-6   Reserved
   
2-6C-7   Park shelter
   
2-6C-8   Government Springs Park
   
2-6C-9   Champlin Pool, admission fees
Article D: Public Safety and Emergency Services
   
2-6D-1   Fire calls outside city
   
2-6D-2   Animal impoundment
   
2-6D-3   Fees for hazardous materials incident response
Article E: Utilities Fees and Charges
   
2-6E-1   Water and sewer connection charge
   
2-6E-2   Utility service initiation and transfer charge
   
2-6E-3   Fire hydrant connection charge
   
2-6E-4   Water meter installation fees
   
2-6E-5   Water rates and charges
   
2-6E-6   Sewer service charges inside city; billing
   
2-6E-7   Sewer service charges outside city
   
2-6E-8   Solid waste collection charges
   
2-6E-9   Stormwater utility service charges
   
2-6E-10   Stormwater development fees
   
2-6E-11   Wastewater collection and treatment inspection
   
2-6E-12   Utility service fees; tampering
Article F: Building and Construction
   
2-6F-1   Building permit fees
   
2-6F-2   Building and other codes, appeal fees
   
2-6F-3   Electrical permit fees
   
2-6F-4   Reserved
   
2-6F-5   Registration of electricians
   
2-6F-6   Mechanical permit fees
   
2-6F-7   Mechanical contractors
   
2-6F-8   Plumbing permit fees
   
2-6F-9   Reserved
   
2-6F-10   Registration fees for plumbers
   
2-6F-11   Fire Prevention Code permit fees
   
2-6F-12   Filling land, raising grade; excavation or fill permit
   
2-6F-13   Roofing contractors
   
2-6F-14   Sidewalk development fee
ARTICLE A: ADMINISTRATIVE, MISCELLANEOUS FEES
§ 2-6A-1 COPIES OF PUBLIC RECORDS; DOCUMENT SEARCH.
   (A)   Ordinances, other public records. The fee required by §
1-10-1(A) for copies of documents having dimensions of eight and one-half
inches by 14 inches or smaller shall be $0.25 per page, and $1 per copied page
for a certified copy. For copies of documents or maps larger than these
dimensions, the cost will be the actual cost of the copy which is approximately
$0.35 a square foot.
   (B)   Hourly charge. The fee required by §
1-10-1(B) shall be based on the hourly wage of the person or persons performing
the search and will be for the amount of time the search is performed.
(Prior Code, § 2-6A-1) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-21-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 51 O.S. § 24A.5(3)
§ 2-6A-2 METERED PARKING RATES.
   The fee required in §
6-6-18(F) shall be $0.01 per each 12 minutes or $0.05 for one hour.
(1994 Code § 11.5-40) (Prior Code, § 2-6A-2)
§ 2-6A-3 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6A-4 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6A-5 AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT IN PARKS.
   (A)   Fees enumerated. The fee required in §
7-2-2 shall be $1 for one day, $15 for six months and $25 for one year.
   (B)   Waiver of fee. Upon recommendation of the Park Board, the fee required
in §
7-2-2 may be waived by the City Manager.
(1994 Code, § 11.5-46) (Prior Code, § 2-6A-5)
§ 2-6A-6 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6A-7 PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Closing public way or easement. The fee required in §
7-1-4 shall be $150.
   (B)   Installation of pipelines in streets. The fee required by §
7-1-5 shall be $100.
   (C)   Street construction permit fee. Pursuant to §
7-1A-2(C), the Engineering Department shall issue a street construction permit
upon payment of a fee of $35 to the Director of Finance.
(Prior Code, § 2-6A-7) (Ord. 2005-28, passed 10-4-2005)
ARTICLE B: BUSINESS RELATED FEES
§ 2-6B-1 MUNICIPAL TAXES.
   (A)   Sales tax. The tax levied in §
2-5A-5 shall be as follows, as of July 2003:
      (1)   Two percent (2%): City unrestricted sales tax;
      (2)   One percent (1%): Capital improvements, including payment of debt
service;
      (3)   One-fourth of one percent (¼%): Public safety;
      (4)   One-fourth of one percent (¼%): Streets and schools (beginning
April 1, 2018, for capital expenditures related or incidental to the
construction of a water transmission pipeline from Kaw Lake to the City);
      (5)   Three-fourths of one percent (¾%): Kaw Lake pipeline project; and
      (6)   For a total of four and one-fourth percent (4¼%).
   (B)   Hotel tax. The tax levied in §
2-5B-4 shall be eight percent (8%).
   (C)   Use tax. The tax levied in §
2-5C-2 shall be the prevailing total of all sales taxes levied by the City on
the purchase price of such property.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-1) (Ord. 2016-24, passed 9-20-2016)
Editor’s note:
    Subsection (A)(2) is effective on and after March 4, 2008, subject to
approval by a majority of the qualified electors of the City.
§ 2-6B-2 TELEPHONE EXCHANGES.
   The fee required in §
2-4-1 shall be five percent (5%) of the gross revenues for the current year for
exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly or partially within the
City.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-2) (Ord. 2013-22, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 2-6B-3 APPLICATION FOR ABLE CERTIFICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   As provided in §
3-2-1, every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the Zoning, Fire,
Health and Safety Codes of the City, required by ABLE Commission, shall pay a
verification and certification fee in the amount of $100 at the time of filing.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-3) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 2-6B-4 AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   (A)   Ambulance business license. The fee required in §
3-8A-2 shall be $250.
   (B)   Ambulance vehicle permit. The fee required in §
3-8B-2 shall be $25.
   (C)   Ambulance driver’s license. The fee required in §
3-8C-2 for the original issuance or renewal of a license shall be $50.
   (D)   Ambulance attendant’s license. The fee required in §
3-8C-2 for the original issuance or renewal of a license shall be $50.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-4) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 2-6B-5 ALARM SYSTEM PERMIT AND REINSTATEMENT FEE.
   The alarm system permit fee required by
Title 3, Chapter 7 shall be $10. The reinstatement fee required by this same
chapter shall be $50.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-5) (Ord. 2004-47, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 2-6B-6 CATV LICENSE FEES.
   The fee required by §§
7-9H-9 and
7-9I-9 shall be five percent (5%) of the gross receipts received by licensee.
(1994 Code, § 11.5-26) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 2-6B-6)
§ 2-6B-7 CHILDCARE CENTER OR NURSING HOME LICENSE.
   The fee required in §
3-15-4 shall be $35 for childcare centers and $75 for nursing homes.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-7) (Ord. 2005-27, passed 10-4-2005)
§ 2-6B-8 FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Restaurant license. The annual license fee required in §
3-3-9 shall be $75.
   (B)   Drive-in restaurant license. The annual license fee required in §
3-3-10 shall be $75 per year.
   (C)   Outdoor café permit fees. The permit fee referred to in §
3-3-11 shall be $300 for the initial permit and $50 each year thereafter.
   (D)   Mobile food vendor license. The license fee referred to in §
3-3-12 shall be as follows.
      (1)   The fee for a one-year license shall be $75.
      (2)   The fee for a six-month license shall be $50.
      (3)   The fee for a single event license shall be $10.
   (E)   Mobile food vendor food court license. The license fee referred to in
§
3-3-12 shall be $75 per year.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-8) (Ord. 2015-41, passed 11-17-2015)
§ 2-6B-9 SOLICITORS.
   The fee required in §
3-11-4(D) for a solicitor’s certificate of registration shall be $25 per month
or $5 per day for each day within and including such dates.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-9) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 2-6B-10 PAWNBROKER, SECONDHAND DEALER AND SCRAP METAL DEALER REGULATORY FEE.
   The regulatory fee required in §
3-12-2 for pawnbrokers, secondhand dealers and scrap metal dealers shall be $50
per year.
(1994 Code, § 11.5-64) (Prior Code, § 2-6B-10) (Ord. 2013-63, passed 12-17-
2013)
§ 2-6B-11 GARAGE AND HOME SALE PERMIT.
   The fee required in §
3-14-2 shall be $5.
(1994 Code, § 11.5-65) (Prior Code, § 2-6B-11)
§ 2-6B-12 MOBILE HOMES; MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Commercial use of mobile homes. The fee required by §
9-12-9 shall be $10.
   (B)   Mobile home parks. The fee required in §
9-12-3(B)(3) shall be $50 plus $2.50 for each mobile home space over 20 spaces.
   (C)   Mobile home park license transfer fee. The fee required in §
9-12-3(C) shall be $5.
   (D)   Mobile home occupancy permit. The fee required in §
9-12-4 shall be $5.
(1994 Code, §§ 11.5-36, 11.5-37, 11.5-38 and 11.5-39) (Prior Code, § 2-6B-12)
§ 2-6B-13 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6B-14 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6B-15 ARBORIST’S LICENSE.
   The fee required in §
3-16-2 shall be $20.
(1994 Code, § 11.5-63) (Prior Code, § 2-6B-15)
§ 2-6B-16 SALVAGE YARD/IMPOUND LOT LICENSE.
   (A)   The fee required to license a salvage yard in §
3-10-2 shall be $100 per year.
   (B)   The fee required to license an impound lot in §
3-10-2 shall be $100 per year.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-16) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 2-6B-17 OIL WELLS.
   (A)   Permit filing fee. The fee required in §
9-13-6(B) shall be $500.
   (B)   Permit renewal fee. The fee required in §
9-13-6(E) shall be $100.
   (C)   Appeals filing fee. The fee required in §
9-13-33 shall be $50.
(1994 Code, §§ 11.5-43, 11.5-44 and 11.5-45) (Prior Code, § 2-6B-17)
§ 2-6B-18 TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL WORK FORCE HOUSING PARKS.
   (A)   License fee. The fee required by §
9-14-3 shall be eight percent (8%) upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts
derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a temporary
industrial work force housing park payable monthly.
   (B)   Renewal. The fee required in §
9-14-3 shall be eight percent (8%) per bed upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a
temporary industrial work force housing park payable monthly.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-18) (Ord. 2013-5, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 2-6B-19 RIGHT-OF-WAY LICENSING FEES.
   (A)   Fee. As compensation for the use of valuable public ways, any company
that requests and is granted permission to place, lay, bury or by other means
occupy, with any cable, wire, fiber optic line or other transmission media, any
portion of the public right-of-way, for the purpose of communication,
telecommunication, data transfer or any other type of information or data
movement, shall pay the City five percent (5%) of the licensee’s gross
receipts. This license shall be read to prevent the licensee from avoiding the
provisions of this subsection (A) by lease, contract or any other arrangement.
   (B)   Payment timing.
      (1)   The licensee shall pay monthly to the City the licensing fee,
together with any accumulated interest, on or before the forty-fifth day after
the end of each month, on gross receipts received for that month. If the
payment is not timely made, interest upon any unpaid portion shall accrue at
the rate of one and one-half percent (1½%) per month until paid in full.
      (2)   The licensee shall complete and file an accurate verified statement
of all gross receipts during the period for which the monthly payment is made
and an annual statement of such gross receipts, verified by the licensee’s
external certified public accountant, within 60 days after the end of each
calendar year.
      (3)   If the licensee fails or refuses to pay such fee shall be regarded
as a trespasser and may be ousted from the City, and in addition, the City may
maintain an action against the licensee for the amount of such fee and the
interest and all expenses of collecting the same, including reasonable attorney
fees.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-19) (Ord. 2013-22, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 2-6B-20 FEE FOR INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION FOR OMMA BUSINESSES.
   As compensation for doing the required inspections of property and
determining whether the Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Authority certificate of
compliance may issue for medical marijuana businesses, the applicant will be
charged a fee of $150.
(Prior Code, § 2-6B-20) (Ord. 2019-24, passed 10-1-2019)
ARTICLE C: CITY SERVICES AND FACILITIES
§ 2-6C-1 ENID WOODRING REGIONAL AIRPORT.
   (A)   Airport landing fees. The landing fee referred to in §
7-4-2 shall be $0.35 per 1,000 pounds of gross certified weight per scheduled
landing. The penalty fee referred to in such section shall be $10.
   (B)   Airport hangar rental. Subject to adjustment as hereinafter provided,
rental rates are established as listed below.
      (1)   Hangars. Unless negotiated for and contracted otherwise, the
following hangar rates shall apply.
         (a)   T-hangars in the 17 and 22 series shall be $0.15 per square foot
per month.
         (b)   T-hangars in the 32 series shall be $0.17 per square foot per
month.
         (c)   T-hangars in the 45 series shall be $0.12 per square foot per
month.
         (d)   T-hangars in the 46 series shall be $0.22 per square foot per
month.
         (e)   All other hangars shall be $0.17 per square foot per month.
      (2)   Ground rental. Unless negotiated for and contracted otherwise,
ground rental rates shall be $0.17 per square foot per year.
      (3)   Adjustment of rental. The Aviation Advisory Board shall annually
consider increasing or decreasing such rental based on a comparison of the fair
market value of other general aviation airports of like size within the
surrounding geographical area. In the event that the Board recommends a change
in the rental, such increases or decreases must first be approved by the City
Council. Adjustments shall become effective on January 1 of the next calendar
year, unless otherwise negotiated by the Director of Aviation.
      (4)   Delinquent accounts. All fees made for any service, lease rental
payments, supplies, fuel or any other charge made by the City at the airport,
if not paid within 30 days of billing, shall be subject to an additional
monthly charge of one and one-half percent (1½%) interest on the unpaid
balance.
      (5)   Negotiate rate. Should the City find good cause, it may negotiate
and contract for a higher or lower rate. Such good cause shall include, but not
be limited to, economic development and in-kind exchange.
   (C)   Airport ramp fee. The ramp fee referred to in §
7-4-4 shall be $100. If the ramp fee is not paid pursuant to §
7-4-4, there shall be a penalty fee of $10.
(Prior Code, § 2-6C-1) (Ord. 2018-30, passed 11-6-2018; Ord. 2021-21, passed
11-16-2021; Ord. 2022-24, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 2-6C-2 LANDFILL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Refuse originating inside city.
      (1)   The fees required by §
8-4-13(B) shall be as follows, unless waived due to a special city cleanup:
 
Computer monitors, each               $7
Dead animals, each (large)            $25
Dead animals, each (small)            $13
Tires 16 inches or under              $10
Tires over 16 inches                  $15
Yard and tree trimmings (commercial)  $15 per ton
Yard and tree trimmings (residential) Part of 12 free trips; $15 per ton after
 
      (2)   For refuse or rubbish not specifically listed in the chart above,
the fee shall be:
For 2018 $33 per ton
For 2019 $38 per ton
For 2020 $40 per ton
For 2021 $42 per ton
For 2022 $44 per ton
For 2023 $46 per ton
For 2024 $48 per ton
For 2025 $50 per ton
 
      (3)   Residents of the City, as evidenced by a current city utility bill,
will be permitted to make 12 trips a calendar year to the landfill to make one
deposit of refuse in an amount not to exceed the legal load of a one ton or
smaller vehicle without sides or a four-wheeled trailer for free.
      (4)   Residents of the City, as evidenced by a current city utility bill,
will be permitted to make six trips a calendar year to the landfill to dispose
of “household hazardous waste” as defined in §
8-4-1. The amount of waste per trip may not exceed ten gallons of paint or 20
gallons of household hazardous waste. Additional trips to the landfill in a
calendar year for household hazardous waste will be charged at $25 per trip.
Commercial and industrial waste is prohibited.
   (B)   Refuse originating outside city.
      (1)   The fees required by §
8-4-13(C) shall be as follows:
 
Computer monitors, each    $10
Dead animals, each (large) $35
Dead animals, each (small) $17
Tires 16 inches or under   $12
Tires over 16 inches       $17
Yard and tree trimmings    $15 per ton
 
      (2)   For refuse or rubbish not specifically listed in the chart above,
the fee shall be:
For 2018 $40 per ton
For 2019 $45 per ton
For 2020 $47 per ton
For 2021 $49 per ton
For 2022 $51 per ton
For 2023 $53 per ton
For 2024 $55 per ton
For 2025 $60 per ton
 
   (C)   Unsecured loads. A fee of $20, in addition to the landfill permit fee
required in subsections (A) and (B) above, shall be charged for each unsecured
load entering the landfill.
   (D)   Waiver of permit fee. There shall be a waiver of the landfill permit
fee for the depositing of loads containing yard and tree trimmings at the city
compost site as provided in §
8-4-13 (E)(1). This waiver shall not be available when the yard and tree
trimmings were collected by a commercial business.
   (E)   Petroleum contaminated soil. For any petroleum contaminated soil that
exceeds the “TPH limits”, as defined in §
8-4-13 (G)(5), the generator shall be assessed a fee of $1,000 per day for
material left at the landfill facility in excess of the 30-day recovery period.
This fee is in addition to any criminal penalties that may be assessed. The
landfill permit fee will not be reimbursed for any petroleum contaminated soil
that is removed from the landfill facility.
   (F)   Compost and wood chips. Compost and wood chips may be obtained from
the landfill free of charge if loaded by the customer. A $10 loading fee will
be assessed per front loader bucket when the landfill staff is utilized for
loading.
(Prior Code, § 2-6C-2) (Ord. 2017-25, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 2-6C-3 LIBRARY FEES AND ACCESS.
   (A)   Fees. The fees to be charged at the Public Library of Enid and
Garfield County shall be set by the Library Board and shall be posted at the
library, at the City Hall Administration Building and on the library’s website.
   (B)   Failure to return loaned item. Any patron that has failed to return
the loaned item(s) by the due date shall no longer have borrowing or other
library privileges until the loaned item is returned, the appropriate fees have
been paid, or other arrangements made.
   (C)   Renting rooms. The following rates shall apply for renting rooms in
the Public Library of Enid and Garfield County:
 
For profit organization $25
Non-profit organization No charge
 
(Prior Code, § 2-6C-3) (Ord. 2013-18, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 2-6C-4 MEADOWLAKE GOLF COURSE, RATES AND FEES.
   The following fees shall be charged for the services at Meadowlake Golf
Course (prices include sales tax).
   (A)   Green fees. All green fee charges are for 18 holes unless specified
otherwise.
Green Fees Price
Green Fees                                           Price
18-Hole Green Fees                                    
   Regular hours                                   
      Monday through Friday                    $28
      Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays     $33
   Twilight hours (shall apply 3 hours before
sunset):
      Monday through Friday                    $17
      Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays     $20
   Additional 18-hole round fee                   $15
   Juniors (under 21 years old):
      Monday through Friday                    $10
      Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays     $10
                                                     No green fees when
                                                     accompanied by golf coach,
                                                     during golf season only,
      Junior-high golf team                    weekdays only - coaches
                                                     will limit team members to
                                                     15 and provide list to pro
                                                     shop
                                                     No green fees when
      Senior-high golf team                    accompanied by golf coach,
                                                     during golf season only,
                                                     weekdays only
      Competitive junior and senior-high golf  No green fees
matches
   Seniors (62 years old and older) and city
employees:
      Monday through Friday                    $21
      Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays      $27
      Additional 18-hole round fee             $15
   Active-duty military:
   Monday through Friday                          $23
   Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays            $28
9-Hole Green Fees
   Monday through Friday                          $17
   Monday through Friday (seniors, military, city $14
employees)
   Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays            $20
Driving Range Bucket                                 $5
 
   (B)   Membership fees. All memberships run from July 1 through June 30
annually. No surcharge is charged for membership play.
Membership Type Price Per Membership
Membership Type                                            Price Per Membership
Single membership (covers green fees for one person for    $1,500
one year)
Single membership with cart                                $2,520
Senior (62 years old or older on July 1) membership        $1,260
(covers green fees for one senior for one year)
Senior membership with cart                                $2,220
Junior (under 21 years old on July 1) membership (covers   $300
green fees for one junior for one year)
Corporate (minimum of three memberships per company) and
active-duty military (covers green fees for one person for $1,350
one year)
Corporate and active-duty military with cart               $2,330
City employee (covers green fees for one employee for one  $540
year)
City employee with cart                                    $1,520
Family membership (couple with kids 18 and under living in $4,200
the same household - green fees, cart and range)
Add a spouse to any membership (green fee only)            $480
Add a spouse to any membership (green fee and cart)        $780
Range only membership                                      $600
Junior range membership                                    $300
Add Range to any membership                                $300
Prorating of memberships: All prorating for memberships
will be done for first time members only with a commitment
through the following fiscal year. Monthly ACH payments
available.
 
   (C)   Golf cart fees:
 
Golf Cart Fees                Price
18 holes of golf, per person  $17
Twilight cart fee, per person $15
9 holes of golf, per person   $10
 
   (D)   Locker rental fee. One hundred dollar fee for one year.
   (E)   Discounts. The Director of Operations at Meadowlake Golf Course may,
with the approval of the City Manager, or his designee, institute winter rates,
run specials, offer coupons and provide discounts on the fees charged at
Meadowlake.
   (F)   Waiver of fee. For good cause shown, the golf fees required in this
section may be waived by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2-6C-4) (Ord. 2016-23, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 2020-07, passed 6-
2-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-6-2024)
§ 2-6C-5 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6C-6 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6C-7 PARK SHELTER.
   The shelters available for reservation and the fees charged for their use
shall be designated by the City Manager. Upon review, the rental fee may be
waived by the City Manager. The rental fees required by this section and by §
1-15-3 of this code, which relates to special events, shall be posted in City
Hall, in a prominent place, at all times.
(Prior Code, § 2-6C-7) (Ord. 2018-06, passed 1-18-2018)
§ 2-6C-8 GOVERNMENT SPRINGS PARK.
   The City’s Park and Recreation Board shall regulate the rental and use
policy for the Performing Arts Pavilion and Dillingham Gardens Oval, subject to
approval by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2-6C-8) (Ord. 2018-06, passed 1-18-2018)
§ 2-6C-9 CHAMPLIN POOL, ADMISSION FEES.
   (A)   Champlin Pool. The following fees shall be charged for the use of
Champlin Pool:
      (1)   Champlin Pool daily admission fee:
         (a)   Adults: $3;
         (b)   Children 6 to 14 years of age: $3; and
         (c)   Children under age six: free.
      (2)   Swimming pool passes: A pass for the swimming season covers one
person and shall be good at Champlin Pool for the year in which it was issued:
         (a)   Individual: $30; and
         (b)   Each additional pass: $20.
   (B)   Rental fees. Champlin Pool:
      (1)   For the first 50 participants: $150; and
      (2)   For each additional 50 participants with a max of 400 participants:
$50.
   (C)   Lessons and water safety. Lessons and water safety: $20.
   (D)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to establish,
promulgate and enforce rules and regulations which will govern the rental of
Champlin Pool, subject to approval by the City Council.
      (2)   The Park Board may recommend changes to these rules and
regulations, subject to approval by the City Manager and adoption by the City
Council.
   (E)   Waiver of fees. Upon the recommendation of the Park Board or the Parks
and Recreation Supervisor, the fees required in this section may be waived by
the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2-6C-9) (Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-18-2017)
ARTICLE D: PUBLIC SAFETY AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
§ 2-6D-1 FIRE CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   Contracts. The fee required in §
5-2-2 shall be $250 per hour per piece of equipment.
   (B)   Fire Department response. The fee required in §
5-2-3 shall be $250 per hour per piece of equipment.
(1994 Code, §§ 11.5-27 and 11.5-28) (Prior Code, § 2-6D-1)
§ 2-6D-2 ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Livestock impoundment fees. The fees provided in §
5-7-3 shall be as follows:
 
Domesticated fowl, other small animals $5 for each animal, plus $5 each day the
and reptiles                           animal is impounded
Goat, sheep or pig                     $25 for each animal, plus $10 each day
                                       the animal is impounded
Horse, cow or mule                     $25 for each animal, plus $15 each day
                                       the animal is impounded
 
   (B)   Dog, cat, ferret or potbellied pig fees. The fees required by Title 5,
Chapter 7 shall be as follows:
Adoption of any previously sterilized   Actual cost of rabies vaccine and
dog or cat                              license fee
Adoption of any sterilized dog or cat   Actual cost of rabies vaccine and
                                        license fee
Adoption of any unsterilized dog or cat Amount of rabies vaccine and spaying
                                        and/or neutering
Adoption of any unsterilized potbellied Amount of spaying and/or neutering of
pig                                     pig
Adoption of potbellied pig on special   $25
adoption day
Cost of rabies vaccine for any owner
not showing proof of current rabies     Actual cost of the rabies vaccine
vaccine
Dead dog, cat or other small animal     $10 per animal
pick up
Impoundment for rabies observation and  $400
boarding fee for required period
Inspection fee for premises for         $50 per inspection
dangerous dog
License fee for any dog or cat          $5 per calendar year (to be put in dog/
                                        cat suspense account)
License fee for dangerous dog (in       $10 per calendar year (to be put in
addition to regular license fee)        dog/cat suspense account)
Rabies postmortem examination           Actual cost of veterinarian examination
Redeemed by owner or keeper             $15 impoundment fee, plus $5 boarding
                                        fee for each day of impoundment
 
(Prior Code, § 2-6D-2) (Ord. 2014-14, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-
2-2021)
§ 2-6D-3 FEES FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT RESPONSE.
   The fees required in §
5-2-4 shall be as follows:
   (A)   For attendance of each hazardous materials response apparatus to
mitigate an incident the rate shall be $250 per hour;
   (B)   For attendance of any additional city fire company, the rate shall be
$250 per company per hour; and
   (C)   The actual costs of equipment, supplies, materials and/or contract
labor utilized in the mitigation efforts.
(Prior Code, § 2-6D-3) (Ord. 2003-16, passed 9-16-2003)
ARTICLE E: UTILITIES FEES AND CHARGES
§ 2-6E-1 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE.
   The fees required by §
8-1-10 shall be $0.05 per square foot of new construction area, for the
construction of or addition to any building or structure within the City which
is required to be connected to the water system or sanitary sewer system by §
8-2-2 or §
8-3A-5(A), and $0.05 per square foot of buildings served outside the City for
connection to the water or sewer systems. The square footage shall be
determined by the outside measurements as shown on the plans and drawings
submitted by the applicant for the building permit, excluding the area for
porches and garages.
(1994 Code, § 11.5-67) (Prior Code, § 2-6E-1)
§ 2-6E-2 UTILITY SERVICE INITIATION AND TRANSFER CHARGE.
   The fees required in §
8-1-11 shall be $25, except that the fee for landlords who desire to initiate
service on a vacant structure will be $10.
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-2) (Ord. 2006-22, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 2-6E-3 FIRE HYDRANT CONNECTION CHARGE.
   The fee required by §
8-1-12 shall be $100, plus the applicable thousand gallon charge for water used
for the first month of service. Until the meter is returned to the City, second
and subsequent months shall be charged a monthly fire hydrant meter rental fee
of $50, plus the applicable thousand gallon charge.
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-3) (Ord. 2014-35, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 2-6E-4 WATER METER INSTALLATION FEES.
   (A)   The fees required by §§
8-2-5 and
8-2-8 shall be posted in the utility services office, in a prominent place, at
all times.
   (B)   The fees posted shall include the cost of the water meter. Fees for
three-fourths- and one-inch meters shall also include the cost of parts, labor
and connection to the water line. Fees for one and one-half- to six-inch meters
are for the water meter only and customers are required to privately arrange
for installation.
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-4) (Ord. 2012-13, passed 6-5-2012)
§ 2-6E-5 WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates enumerated. The rates and charges established in §
8-2-4 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential (five-eighths-inch to one-inch meters):
 
Rates inside and outside city limits (amount in gallons of water service):         
   Minimum of 1,000 gallons                                                    $10.67
   Price per 1,000 gallons over first 1,000 gallons to 6,999 gallons           $3.57
   Price per 1,000 gallons thereafter (this tier expires on December 31, 2015, $4.72
and will merge into the next lower tier)
 
      (2)   Commercial (five-eighths-inch to one-inch meters):
 
Rates inside and outside city limits:
   Minimum of 1,000 gallons                      $21.33
   Price per 1,000 gallons over first 1,000 gallo$3.57
 
      (3)   Irrigation meters (five-eighths-inch to one-inch meters):
Commercial (-inch to 1-inch meters):
   Price per 1,000 gallons for 49,999 gallons or less                      $3.57
   Price per 1,000 gallons over first 49,999 gallons (This tier expires on $4.72
December 31, 2015, and will merge into the next lower tier)
Irrigation meters on property without a regular meter:
   Base minimum rate for first 1,000 gallons                               $10.67
   Price per 1,000 gallons for 1,001 gallons to 6,999 gallons              $3.57
   Price per 1,000 gallons over first 6,999 gallons (This tier expires on  $4.72
December 31, 2015, and will merge into the next lower tier)
Residential irrigation meters (with meter on property where there is regular
meter):
   Price per 1,000 gallons for 6,999 gallons or less                       $3.57
   Price per 1,000 gallons over first 6,999 gallons (This tier expires on  $4.72
December 31, 2015, and will merge into the next lower tier)
 
      (4)   The above minimum rates shall be paid whether or not the specified
number of gallons is used.
 
Meter Size Base Minimum
1½ inches $30
2 inches   $50
3 inches   $75
4 inches   $100
6 inches   $200
 
   (B)   Incorporated entities. Political subdivisions, rural water districts
and associations, or similar entities incorporated for the purpose of supplying
customers or residents with water service, receiving water from the City
through a common water meter, shall pay $4.72 per thousand gallons furnished.
An agreement to supply water to such user shall be by formal contract. The
price per thousand gallons of water for incorporated entities and other
entities which are supplied water by contract shall increase each year on
January 1 in the following manner:
 
2016 $4.81
2017 $5.94
2018 $7.15
2019 $7.70
 
   (C)   Users not specifically designated. All users not specifically
designated by this section shall pay the residential water rate for such water
usage.
   (D)   Report. A report of these rates shall be presented to the City
Commission annually during the budgeting cycle or as often as directed by the
City Commission.
   (E)   Annual increase of rates.
      (1)   (a)   The price per thousand gallons of water, after the first
1,000 gallons, for residential and commercial accounts shall increase each year
on January 1 in the following manner:
 
2016 $4.47
2017 $5.82
2018 $7.01
2019 $7.55
 
         (b)   The price per thousand gallons of water for residential accounts
and residential irrigation rates for consumption over 6,999 gallons and for
commercial irrigation rates for consumption over 49,999 gallons shall increase
by two percent (2%) on January 1, 2015. That tier will be merged into the next
lower tier beginning on January 1, 2016. Beginning in 2020, the rates in this
subsection (E) will increase annually effective January 1 of each year by two
percent (2%).
      (2)   All other rates and fees charged pursuant to this section shall
increase by two percent (2%) annually, effective January 1 of each year
beginning in 2015.
   (F)   Emergency water conservation rates. When the City Council find that it
is necessary to institute emergency water conservation measures, the rates in
this section shall not apply and shall be replaced by the emergency water
conservation rates listed in §
8-2-15.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 2-19-2015)
§ 2-6E-6 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES INSIDE CITY; BILLING.
   (A)   Rates enumerated.
      (1)   The rates and charges established in §
8-1-14(B)(1) for the use of the sanitary sewer system to be levied against each
charging unit within the City shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential (amount in gallons of sanitary sewer service):
 
Minimum of 1,000 gallons                                $10.46
Price per 1,000 gallons over first 1,000 gallons        $1.75
Sanitary sewer capital improvement and replacement fee:
   Minimum of 1,000 gallons                          $1.96
   Price per 1,000 gallons after first 1,000 gallons $2.87
 
         (b)   Commercial:
 
Minimum of 1,000 gallons                                $20.91
Price per 1,000 gallons over first 1,000 gallons        $1.75
Sanitary sewer capital improvement and replacement fee:
   Minimum of 1,000 gallons                          $1.96
   Price per 1,000 gallons after first 1,000 gallons $2.87
 
      (2)   The above minimum shall be paid whether or not the specified number
of gallons is used. All sewer in excess of the minimum provided by this section
shall be charged at the above scheduled rates. The amount of gallons of
sanitary sewer usage shall be determined by and equal to the amount of gallons
of water usage for each charging unit, except as otherwise provided by
contract.
   (B)   Units not connected to city water. All residential and commercial
charging units which are not connected with city water shall pay the minimum
charge per charging unit plus an additional charge of $10.46 per charging unit
per month.
   (C)   Annual increase of rates. The rates and fees charged pursuant to this
section shall increase by two percent (2%) annually, effective January 1 of
each year beginning in 2015.
   (D)   Sewer charge adjustments.
      (1)   Without regard to the service period and except as herein provided,
all residential sewer customer billings, including those billings for multi-
family dwellings and mobile homes shall provide for summer reduced sewer and
sewer improvement charges when the customer uses both the city provided water
and sewer services. The summer reduced sewer and sewer improvement billing will
be computed by reducing the price per 1,000 gallons after the first 1,000
gallons by twenty percent (20%), based on water consumption.
 
Sewer gallons             $1.40 per 1,000 gallons after first 1,000
Sewer improvement gallons $2.30 per 1,000 gallons after first 1,000
 
      (2)   This summer reduced billing will be charged for the months of May
through September billings.
   (E)   Capital improvement and replacement account; damage assistance
subaccount.
      (1)   There shall be created an account within the Enid Municipal
Authority entitled the sanitary sewer system capital improvement and
replacement account (hereinafter “account”) wherein the $1.96 per charging unit
minimum, plus $2.87 per 1,000 gallons after first 1,000 gallons from the
sanitary sewer rate segregated for this purpose shall accrue. An amount equal
to all revenue derived from this fee shall be monthly computed and transferred
to such account, subject to the covenants contained in the Enid Municipal
Authority bond indentures, which covenants include the duty to pay the debt
service attributable to the Enid Municipal Authority bonds previously issued
and any requirement contained in such indentures; provided that such revenue
shall first be deposited in certain indentured funds and accounts. All monies
contained in the account shall be expended solely for sanitary sewer system
capital improvement projects, except as provided hereinbelow.
      (2)   On December 1, 1993, $60,000 shall be transferred from the account
to the sanitary sewer backup damage and backflow prevention system subaccount
(hereinafter “subaccount”). The monies contained in the subaccount shall be
used:
         (a)   To assist sanitary sewer utility customers (hereinafter
“customers”) with damages that occur, through no fault of customer, due to
continual and persistent sanitary sewer backups into the customer’s private
property, after the application by the City and/or authority of all reasonable
operational and maintenance procedures for resolving the condition; and
         (b)   For the installation of backflow prevention systems on such
private property to help alleviate further occurrences.
      (3)   Subject to annual appropriation and budget approval, the Chairman
and Trustees of the Enid Municipal Authority may, on July 1, 1994, and on such
day of each succeeding year, transfer from the account to the subaccount an
amount of money necessary to restore the $60,000 to be used for the purposes as
provided herein. The following regulations shall apply in order for any
customer to receive financial assistance from the subaccount.
         (a)   Any customer who has damage to any home, building or structure
caused by the public sanitary sewer system due to continual and persistent
sanitary sewer backups into such customer’s private property, not covered by
any negligence on the part of the customer, after the application by the City
and/or authority of all reasonable operational and maintenance procedures for
resolving the condition, may file an application with the City Clerk for
financial assistance. Such application shall contain such information as
required by the City Manager and shall contain a verification clause. The City
Engineer, or his designee, shall review such application to determine whether
the sanitary sewer backup event falls within the purview of this program. The
City Engineer’s determination shall be provided in writing to the customer. In
the event that the City Engineer determines that the backup event is covered
under this program as provided hereinabove, then the customer shall provide the
receipts for the cost of the repairs, replacements or installations
necessitated due to the sewer backup, including the receipts for the
installation of the backflow prevention system, and which receipts shall
further show that such work has been performed or material or equipment
replaced or installed and paid for by the customer.
         (b)   All applications must be filed within 90 days after the date the
customer is notified that the City’s insurance will not be paying said claim.
The maximum amount paid on any application based on a single occurrence shall
be $5,000. Such funds shall be allocated on a first come, first serve basis,
and no additional city or authority funds shall be used to make reimbursement
under this program and subaccount. All claims for damages must be reasonable.
Reimbursement shall not exceed 50% of the actual, reasonable damages incurred,
including the actual cost of installation of a backflow prevention system as
approved by the City Engineer, which system shall include a manual shutoff
valve and/or sump pump.
         (c)   No reimbursement shall be made unless the customer:
            1.   First files a claim with the City’s insurance and is turned
down by the insurance carrier;
            2.   Installs the backflow prevention system or systems as required
to provide protection for all buildings subject to damage by the public
sanitary sewer system located at or adjacent to the damaged home, building or
structure;
            3.   Executes a contract with the City permitting the right, but
not the duty or obligation, to inspect such backflow prevention system; and
            4.   Signs a release and waiver releasing the City and all its
employees and officers from any and all liability based on the sewer backflow
occurrence and any and all damage that may be occasioned in the future by the
backflow prevention system. No home, building or structure fitted with a
backflow prevention system with any funds from this subaccount shall be
eligible for future funding from the subaccount. Any loss claim paid to
customer by any insurance policy due to the sewer backup event shall be
deducted from the total amount sought by customer for reimbursement.
         (d)   In the event that the City is deemed to be legally liable for
the damage due to the backflow of sewage into any home, building or structure,
any such claim or judgment shall be paid in accordance with the City’s
insurance, and not in accordance with this section.
         (e)   The City Engineer, or his designee, shall review all
applications and implement the terms of this section to the extent of available
funding.
         (f)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to place any
duty or obligation on the City or authority to pay such funds to any person,
such program being at the sole option and discretion of the City Council and/or
the Chairman and Trustees of the Enid Municipal Authority.
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-6) (Ord. 2014-35, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 2-6E-7 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES OUTSIDE CITY.
   The rates and charges established by §
8-1-14(B)(2) for users of the city sewer system having connections without the
corporate limits of the City shall be two times the rates established in §
2-6E-6.
(1994 Code, § 11.5-71) (Prior Code, § 2-6E-7)
§ 2-6E-8 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Monthly charges. On January 1, 2025, the monthly charges or fees
required by § 8-4-4 of this Code shall be as follows:
      (1)   For curbside service: $16;
      (2)   Carry out service, for disabled persons only, shall be the same
rate as regular curbside service;
      (3)   For additional polycarts: $5.50 per polycart per month; and
      (4)   If the polycart has to be moved to a different location in order to
empty it or if the polycart is overloaded and requires additional dumping or
the polycart is not placed timely pursuant to §
8-4-7(B)(1) and an additional trip to pick up the trash is required, an
additional charge of $4 will be assessed for each occurrence.
   (B)   Setting or changing commercial unit rates. The standard monthly fees
required by §
8-4-4 (C) will be set by the City Manager per administrative regulation and he
may negotiate and execute contracts that vary said standard rates when
appropriate.
   (C)   Vacancies. If the charging units are used for living purposes and have
a common water meter and/or combined collection billing and utilize curbside
collection, the minimum charges provided in subsection (A)(1) above, $16 to be
decreased to $14.40, per charging unit in order to compensate for vacancies;
except that the rate for multi-family units utilizing, on the effective date of
Ordinance 87-12 only, complete solid waste incinerators, meeting or exceeding
all federal and state requirements, shall be charged in accordance with
subsection (B) above; further provided, however, the owner of a mobile home
park who has elected to license less than the total number of lots available at
the site of such park and who is utilizing curbside collection, shall pay $16
minimum per charging unit; and further provided, however, mobile home parks and
multi-family dwelling of five charging units or more and having a common water
meter and/or combined collection billing and utilizing containers provided by
the City shall be charged in accordance with subsection (B) above.
   (D)   Setting or changing minimum fee. The minimum fee required in §
8-4-4 (D) will be set by the City Manager per administrative regulation and he
may negotiate and execute contracts that vary from said minimum fee.
   (E)   Charge for removal of solid waste. The charge for removal of solid
waste, pursuant to §
8-4-9 , shall be $20 per call out unless the refuse accumulation requires
additional trips to the residence. If so, the additional trips will be charged
out at $65 for each additional trip.
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-8) (Ord. 2017-25, passed 11-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-18,
passed 11-19-2024)
§ 2-6E-9 STORMWATER UTILITY SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates effective March 1, 2009. Effective March 1, 2009, the following
rates and charges are established. The rates and charges established in §
8-5-2  shall be as follows:
      (1)   Rates for each individually billed single-family residential:
 
Reduced impervious surface rate $1.50 per month
Standard rate                   $3 per month
 
      (2)   Rate for each common billed multi-family residential up to four
dwelling units in size: $3 each dwelling unit per month;
      (3)   Rates for all other developed real estate tracts not covered by
subsection (A)(1) or (A)(2) above, including all multi-family residential over
four dwelling units in size and other nonresidential:
ESU Rates Per Month
ESU             Rates Per Month
0 to 10         $15
Over 10 to 20   $45
Over 20 to 30   $75
Over 30 to 40   $105
Over 40 to 50   $135
Over 50 to 60   $165
Over 60 to 70   $195
Over 70 to 80   $225
Over 80 to 90   $255
Over 90 to 100  $285
Over 100 to 110 $315
Over 110 to 120 $345
Over 120        $375
 
      (4)   Equivalent service units (ESU) shall be established at one unit per
5,000 square feet of impervious surface or a portion thereof.
   (B)   Rates effective March 1, 2010. Effective March 1, 2010, the following
rates and charges are established:
      (1)   Rates for each individually billed single-family residential:
 
Reduced impervious surface rate $1.84 per month
Standard rate                   $3.67 per month
 
      (2)   Rate for each common billed multi-family residential up to four
dwelling units in size: $3.67 each dwelling unit per month;
      (3)   Rates for all other developed real estate tracts not covered by
subsection (B)(1) or (B)(2) above, including all multi-family residential over
four dwelling units in size and other nonresidential:
ESU Rates Per Month
ESU             Rates Per Month
0 to 10         $18.36
Over 10 to 20   $55.08
Over 20 to 30   $91.80
Over 30 to 40   $128.52
Over 40 to 50   $165.24
Over 50 to 60   $201.96
Over 60 to 70   $238.68
Over 70 to 80   $275.40
Over 80 to 90   $312.12
Over 90 to 100  $348.84
Over 100 to 110 $385.56
Over 110 to 120 $422.28
Over 120        $459
 
      (4)   Equivalent service units (ESU) shall be established at one unit per
5,000 square feet of impervious surface or a portion thereof.
   (C)   Annual increase of fees. The rates and fees charged pursuant to this
section shall increase by three percent (3%) each year after 2010, effective
January 1 of each year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-9) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 2-6E-10 STORMWATER DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   (A)   Rates and charges established. The rates and charges established in §
13-3-10 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Subdivision for residential estates and single-family:
 
Single- $3,716.43/
family  acre
Single-
family
estate
with    $1,489.91/
less    lot
than 2
lots               These fees are as of 2024. Fees increase each year by 3% pursuant to §
per                2-6E-10(E).
acre
Single-
family
estate
with 2  $2,231.06/
or more acre
lots
per
acre
 
      (2)   Building permit, other city permit issuance for development off of
public streets, or site plan not covered by subsection (A)(1) above:
 
Commercial/          $0.1707/SFI
industrial or other
Multi-family         $0.1707/SFI      These fees are as of July 1, 2024. Fees
Single-family        $928.73/building increase each year by 3% pursuant to §
                     site             2-6E-10(E).
Single-family estate $557.23/building
(>1/2 acre)          site
Note to table: SFI is the square feet of impervious surface and shall include
all surfaces that have a C factor greater than landscape green areas.
 
   (B)   Area determination.
      (1)   Area determination for subdivisions shall include all public
dedication and open spaces included in the plat.
      (2)   Area determination for building and other permits for single-family
estates and single-family not covered by subsection (B)(1) above shall be per
lot for new structures and for additions or added structures over 650 square
feet in area.
      (3)   Area determination for building and other permits and site plans
not covered by subsection (B)(1) above shall be the area of impervious surface
on the development site for new development and shall be the increase in
impervious surface on the development site where the site is being redeveloped.
   (C)   Assessment of fee. Fees assessed per lot or per acre shall only be
assessed once on those same acres or lots. Fees assessed by SFI only apply to
the SFI assessed and any increase in SFI is subject to additional fees.
   (D)   Payment of fee. Payment of fee shall be made before release of plats,
site plans or issuance of building or other permit. In the case of commercial
subdivision, payment of fee may be deferred until site plan approval, but in no
case shall the amount of impervious surface or runoff be increased before
payment of fee.
   (E)   Annual increase of rates. The rates and fees charged pursuant to this
section shall increase by three percent (3%) each year after 2024, effective
July 1 of each year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-10) (Ord. 2014-25, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 2-6E-11 WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT INSPECTION.
   The inspection fee required by §
8-3A-4(B) shall be $50 an hour.
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-11) (Ord. 2005-26, passed 10-4-2005)
§ 2-6E-12 UTILITY SERVICE FEES; TAMPERING.
   The fees required by §§
8-1-7 and
8-2-11 shall be as follows:
 
Tampering With City Property      Fee
First occurrence                  $50
Second occurrence                 $100
Third occurrence                  $200
Fourth and subsequent occurrences Prior fee shall double upon each subsequent
                                  occurrence
 
(Prior Code, § 2-6E-12) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 9-21-2010)
ARTICLE F: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 2-6F-1 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   The fees required in §
9-1-2 shall be as follows.
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   Costs assessed by floor space.
         (a)   Residential new construction, addition, alteration or remodel
shall be a minimum of $25 or $0.09 per square foot, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Residential accessory structures or carports shall be a minimum
of $25 or $0.07 per square foot whichever is greater.
      (2)   Cost assessed by category. The fee for a roof, storm shelter,
fence, moving a building or a demolition permit is $25.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial construction.
      (1)   Costs assessed by floor space. New construction, addition,
alteration or remodel shall be $50 or $0.12 per square foot up to 10,000 square
feet whichever is greater. For each square foot over 10,000 square feet only
$0.01 will be accessed.
      (2)   Cost assessed by category. The fee for a roof, storm shelter,
fence, demolition or a building moving permit is $50.
   (C)   State assessment. Pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.25 and the rules of the
Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, an additional fee of $4.50 per
permit shall be accessed and remitted to the state.
   (D)   Triple fees. When a permit is required and the work has begun without
a permit, the fees shall be tripled. This shall not apply to emergency repairs
as long as the application should be turned in the next business day.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-1) (Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-
7-2022)
§ 2-6F-2 BUILDING AND OTHER CODES, APPEAL FEES.
   The fee for appealing decisions of the code officials to the various boards
shall be $100.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-2) (Ord. 2004-32, passed 10-5-2004; Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-
7-2022)
§ 2-6F-3 ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Residential electrical work.
      (1)   Fees by floor space. New construction, addition, alteration or
remodel shall be $25 or $0.04 per square foot, whichever is higher.
      (2)   Fees by category.
         (a)   The fee for minor wiring or temporary service is $25.
         (b)   The fee for servicing electrical systems is $25 per 200 amps.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial electrical work.
      (1)   Fees by floor space. New construction, addition, alteration or
remodel shall be $50 or $0.06 per square foot up to 10,000 square feet,
whichever is higher. For each square foot over 10,000 square feet only $0.01
will be accessed.
      (2)   Fees by category.
         (a)   The fee for minor wiring, temporary service or signs is $50.
         (b)   The fee for servicing electrical systems is $50 per 200 amps.
   (C)   State assessment. Pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.25 and the rules of the
Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, an additional fee of $4.50 per
permit shall be accessed and remitted to the state.
   (D)   Triple fees. When a permit is required and the work has begun without
a permit, the fees shall be tripled. This shall not apply to emergency repairs
as long as the application should be turned in the next business day.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-3)
§ 2-6F-4 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6F-5 REGISTRATION OF ELECTRICIANS.
   The fees provided for in § 9-4-3 shall be as follows:
   (A)   Effective for the 2009 registrations, for an electrical contractor,
$300 for the first year or portion of a year and $100 for each year thereafter;
   (B)   For inactive electrical contractors, $25; and
   (C)   The penalty fee for late registration provided in § 9-4-3 shall be $1
per day. The total penalty fee shall not exceed the registration fee cost.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-5) (Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 2-6F-6 MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Residential mechanical permit fees.
      (1)   Permits by floor space. New construction, addition, alteration or
remodel shall be $25 or $0.04 per square foot, whichever is higher.
      (2)   Permits for minor mechanical, change out of systems or gas pressure
tests. Permits for minor mechanical, change-out of systems or gas pressure
tests shall be $25.
   (B)   Commercial or industrial mechanical permit fees.
      (1)   Permits by floor space. New construction, addition, alteration or
remodel shall be $50 or $0.06 per square foot up to 10,000 square feet,
whichever is higher. For each square foot over 10,000 square feet only $0.01
will be accessed.
      (2)   Permits for minor mechanical, change out of systems or gas pressure
tests. Permits for minor mechanical, change out of systems or gas pressure
tests shall be $50.
   (C)   State assessment. Pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.25 and the rules of the
Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, an additional fee of $4.50 per
permit shall be accessed and remitted to the state.
   (D)   Triple fees. When a permit is required and the work has begun without
a permit, the fees shall be tripled. This shall not apply to emergency repairs
as long as the application should be turned in the next business day.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-6) (Ord. 2004-32, passed 10-5-2004; Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-
7-2022)
§ 2-6F-7 MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Registration fees. Effective for the 2009 registrations, the fees
provided for in §
9-6-2 for a mechanical contractor’s registration shall be $300 for the first
year or portion of the year and $100 for each year thereafter.
   (B)   Late mechanical registration fees. The fee required by §
9-6-2 shall be $1 per day. The total penalty fee shall not exceed the
registration fee cost.
   (C)   Inactive mechanical contractor registration fee. The fee required by §
9-6-2 shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-7) (Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 2-6F-8 PLUMBING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Residential plumbing fees.
      (1)   Permits by floor space. New construction, addition, alteration or
remodel shall be $25 or $0.04 per square foot, whichever is higher.
      (2)   Permits for minor plumbing, water service, sewer service, water
heater, gas pressure tests. Permits for minor plumbing, water service, sewer
service, water heater and/or gas pressure tests shall be $25.
   (B)   Commercial or industrial permit fees.
      (1)   Permits by floor space. New construction, addition, alteration or
remodel shall be $50 or $0.06 per square foot up to 10,000 square feet,
whichever is higher. For each square foot over 10,000 square feet only $0.01
will be accessed.
      (2)   Permits for minor plumbing, water service, sewer service, water
heater, gas pressure tests. Permits for minor plumbing, water service, sewer
service, water heater, gas pressure tests shall be $50.
   (C)   State assessment. Pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.25 and the rules of the
Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, an additional fee of $4.50 per
permit shall be accessed and remitted to the state.
   (D)   Triple fees. When a permit is required and the work has begun without
a permit, the fees shall be tripled. This shall not apply to emergency repairs
as long as the application should be turned in the next business day.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-10) (Ord. 2004-32, passed 10-5-2004; Ord. 2022-15, passed
6-7-2022)
§ 2-6F-9 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 2-6F-10 REGISTRATION FEES FOR PLUMBERS.
   (A)   Contractors. Effective for the 2009 registrations, the fee required by
§
9-8-2 for a plumbing contractor’s registration shall be $300 for the first year
or portion of a year and $100 for each year thereafter.
   (B)   Inactive contractors. The fee for an inactive plumbing contractor’s
registration shall be $25 per year.
   (C)   Late fee. Late plumbing registration fees shall be $1 per day. Such
total penalty fee shall not exceed the total registration fee cost.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-10) (Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 2-6F-11 FIRE PREVENTION CODE PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees. The fees required by §
9-10-2 of this code shall be:
 
Automatic suppression system inspection (new $75
construction/remodel)
Fire alarm nonresidential inspection permit  $75
(new construction/remodel)
Fireworks display permit                     $25
Open burn permit                             $10 per burn or $25 for 3 months
Sprinkler system permit (new construction/   $75
remodel)
 
   (B)   Additional fees. Pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.25 and the rules of the
Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, an additional fee of $4.50 per fire
prevention permit shall be added to all fire prevention permit fees and
collected at the time the building permit is issued. This additional fee shall
not apply to fireworks display permits or open burn permits. Fees collected
pursuant to this subsection (B) shall be remitted in accordance with procedures
set out in the rules of the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-11) (Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2022-11, passed
4-19-2022)
§ 2-6F-12 FILLING LAND, RAISING GRADE; EXCAVATION OR FILL PERMIT.
   The fee required in §
10-2-1 shall be $1 per 100 cubic yards of fill or excavation, but not less than
$5.
(1994 Code, § 11.5-47) (Prior Code, § 2-6F-12)
§ 2-6F-13 ROOFING CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   The fee for registration as a roofing contractor is $10 per year.
   (B)   The penalty fee for late registration shall be $1 per day in addition
to the annual fee.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-13) (Ord. 2015-28, passed 9-1-2015)
§ 2-6F-14 SIDEWALK DEVELOPMENT FEE.
   (A)   The fee required by §
10-6-1 shall be $60 per linear foot of street frontage.
   (B)   The fees collected under this section shall be used by the City to
defray the cost of constructing, reconstructing or repairing sidewalks
throughout the City.
(Prior Code, § 2-6F-14) (Ord. 2016-03, passed 2-2-2016)
CHAPTER 7: FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
2-7-1: Purpose Of Financial Disclosure
2-7-2: Financial Disclosure Statement
2-7-3: Material Financial Interest Defined
 
2-7-4: Penalty
2-7-1: PURPOSE OF FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
The purpose of financial disclosure is to identify and disclose potential
conflicts of interest of elected officials between their public duties and
their private economic interests. (Ord. 2025-04, 3-18-2025)
2-7-2: FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT:
A financial disclosure statement must be filed with the City Clerk by each
member of the City Council whether elected or appointed. It should include all
material financial interests. The statement should be submitted for the
previous year by the last day of May, each year. (Ord. 2025-04, 3-18-2025)
2-7-3: MATERIAL FINANCIAL INTEREST DEFINED:
   A.   A material interest is defined as the six interests listed below.
      1.   Employment by the filer, the filer's spouse or dependent.
      2.   An ownership interest in a private business including but not
limited to, a closely held corporation, limited liability company, Subchapter S
corporation or partnership for which the filer, the filer's spouse, or
dependent , is a director, officer, owner, manager, employee, or agent.
      3.   Stock, another form of equity interest, stock options, debt
instruments or dividends of any private business, closely held corporation or
limited liability company in which the filer, the filer's spouse or dependent
received income worth Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000.00) or more at any point
during the preceding calendar year.
      4.   An ownership interest of five percent (5%) or more in a publicly
traded corporation or other business entity by a filer, the filer's spouse, or
dependent.
      5.   An ownership interest in a publicly traded corporation or other
business entity from which dividends or income, of Fifty Thousand Dollars
($50,000.00) or more, but not to include salary, were derived during the
preceding calendar year by the filer, the filer's spouse, or dependent.
      6.   An interest that arises as a result of the filer's, the filer's
spouse, or dependent's service as a director or officer of a publicly traded
corporation or other business entity.
   B.   However, a 'material financial interest" does not include:
      1.   An interest in a mutual fund or other community investment vehicle
in which the filer, the filer's spouse, or dependent, exercises no control over
the acquisition or sale of particular holdings, or
      2.   An interest in a pension plan, 401k, individual retirement account
or other retirement investment vehicle that makes diversified investments over
which the filer, the filer's spouse or dependent exercises no control over the
acquisition or sale of particular holdings. (Ord. 2025-04, 3-18-2025)
2-7-4: PENALTY:
If a member of the Council fails to file a financial disclosure statement
within sixty days of taking office, the City Clerk will send a letter to the
member reminding the member of this obligation. If the member does not file a
financial disclosure statement or explains the delay in writing, the member,
may through City Council action, be suspended from voting on contracts and
expenditures until the disclosure statement is received by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-04, 3-18-2025)
TITLE 3: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.    BUSINESS LICENSES
      
2.    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
3.    FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
4.    RESERVED
      
5.    RESERVED
      
6.    RESERVED
      
7.    SECURITY COMPANIES AND ALARM SYSTEMS
      
8.    AMBULANCES
      
9.    RESERVED
      
10.    SALVAGE YARDS AND IMPOUND LOTS
      
11.    SOLICITING
      
12.    PAWNBROKERS/SECONDHAND DEALERS AND SCRAP METAL DEALERS
      
13.    RESERVED
      
14.    GARAGE AND HOME SALES
      
15.    CHILDCARE CENTERS AND NURSING HOMES
      
16.    ARBORISTS
      
17.    ROOFING CONTRACTORS
CHAPTER 1: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
3-1-1   Scope
   
3-1-2   License issuance and term; refund of fees
   
3-1-3   Separate license required; transfer
   
3-1-4   Occupation tax nontransferable, nonrefundable
   
3-1-5   Suspension or revocation of license or permit
§ 3-1-1 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all licenses issued by
the City, unless otherwise specifically provided.
(1994 Code, § 16-1) (Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 3-1-2 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND TERM; REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Term. Licenses issued by the City shall expire one year from the date
of their issuance unless otherwise provided, and all licenses shall state
thereon their date of expiration.
   (B)   Payment of fees. Licenses shall not be issued until the fees
prescribed therefor shall have been paid; the fees shall not be prorated,
neither shall any rebates or refunds be allowed or made, except as otherwise
provided.
(1994 Code, § 16-2) (Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 3-1-3 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED; TRANSFER.
   A separate license shall be obtained for each branch established or separate
place of business in which the trade, profession, calling or occupation is
carried on and each license for a particular place of business shall not be
transferred to another location until the application for such transfer shall
have been approved. The transfer shall be made without additional fee. No
license shall be transferred to another person. Transfer of a majority of the
stock of a corporation or the controlling interest in any corporation or
association shall constitute a transfer.
(1994 Code, § 16-3) (Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 3-1-4 OCCUPATION TAX NONTRANSFERABLE, NONREFUNDABLE.
   An occupation tax shall cover only the person paying the tax. It shall not
be transferable or refundable.
(1994 Code, § 16-4) (Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 3-1-5 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   City Council; due process hearing. After a hearing affording due
process, the City Council may revoke or suspend any business license or permit
issued pursuant to ordinance if its holder has violated any ordinance or state
law having a reasonable relationship to his fitness to conduct the business.
   (B)   Chief of Police. The Chief of Police, after a hearing affording due
process, may suspend such a license or permit for a period of time not to
exceed 30 days if its holder has violated any ordinance or state law having a
reasonable relationship to his fitness to conduct business.
   (C)   Supplemental provisions. The provisions of this section shall be
supplemental to all other ordinances.
(1994 Code, § 16-5) (Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-2-1   Application for ABLE certification; inspections; and issuance of
certification
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol related offenses, see §
5-5H-2
§ 3-2-1 APPLICATION FOR ABLE CERTIFICATION; INSPECTIONS; AND ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Filing of application; fee. Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the Zoning, Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the City, required
by the ABLE Commission, shall apply at the Office of the City Clerk by:
      (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that Office;
and
      (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in an amount as
specified in §
2-6B-3 at the time of filing.
   (B)   Investigation of premises. Upon receipt of an application for a
certificate of compliance, the Code Department shall cause an investigation to
be made to determine whether the premises proposed for licensed operations
comply with the provisions of the zoning ordinance and any Health, Fire,
Building and other Safety Codes applicable to it.
   (C)   Certification. Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a
certificate is in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances and all
applicable Health, Fire, Building and Safety Codes a certification shall be
issued to the ABLE Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 8-7-2018)
CHAPTER 3: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
3-3-1   Adoption of state law; compliance
   
3-3-2   Definitions
   
3-3-3   License required; violation
   
3-3-4   Duty to collect tax
   
3-3-5   License terms; expiration
   
3-3-6   Posting of license
   
3-3-7   Miscellaneous requirements
   
3-3-8   Suspension or revocation of license; appeal
   
3-3-9   Restaurants
   
3-3-10   Drive-in restaurant
   
3-3-11   Outdoor cafés
   
3-3-12   Mobile food vendors
   
3-3-13   Seasonal food establishment
§ 3-3-1 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Adoption of state law. All applicable statutes, rules and regulations
governing food service establishments, as those statutes, rules and regulations
may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and incorporated as if
fully set out herein.
   (B)   Federal, state and local law. Licensee shall comply with all federal,
state and local laws, rules and regulations governing food service
establishments.
   (C)   Provisions. The provisions of this chapter are supplementary to all
other ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Code Official, the person authorized to enforce the
provisions contained in this chapter.
   DESIGN GUIDELINES. The standards developed by Main Street, Enid and the
City, hereby adopted by reference with this chapter, that serve as the guide
with regard to the design and materials which may be utilized encroachment area
within a sidewalk café.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. Any establishment where food, frozen dessert and/or
beverage is sold to the consumer, and where motor vehicle parking space is
provided, and where such food, frozen dessert and/or beverage is intended to be
consumed in the motor vehicle parked upon the premises or anywhere on the
premises outside of the building.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who handles food or drink during preparation or
serving, or who comes in contact with any eating or cooking utensils, or who is
employed at any time in a room in which food or drink is prepared or served.
   ENCROACHMENT. Stands, tables, umbrellas, chairs, displays, signs, banners,
flags and appurtenances or objects related to the business, or other items for
sale on the public right-of-way, sidewalk or common area on public property.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any operation that stores, prepares, packages,
serves, vends food directly to the consumer or otherwise provides food for
human consumption such as: a restaurant; satellite, commissary or catered
feeding location; catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people; market; vending
location; institution; or food bank; and that relinquishes possession of food
to a consumer directly, or indirectly through a delivery service such as home
delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service
that is provided by common carriers.
      (1)   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT includes an element of the operation
such as a transportation vehicle or a central preparation facility that
supplies a vending location or satellite feeding location unless the vending or
feeding location is permitted by the department; or an operation that is
conducted in a mobile, stationary, temporary or permanent facility or location;
where consumption is on or off the premises; and regardless of whether there is
a charge for the food.
      (2)   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT does not include:
         (a)   Food processing plant; including those that are located on the
premises of a food establishment;
         (b)   A kitchen in a private home if only food that is not potentially
hazardous is prepared for sale or service at a function such as a religious or
charitable organization’s bake sale if allowed by law and if the consumer is
informed by a clearly visible placard at the sales or service location that the
food is prepared in a kitchen that is not subject to regulation and inspection
by the Department;
         (c)   A kitchen in a private home, such as a small family daycare
provider; or a bed and breakfast operation that prepares and offers food to
guests if the home is owner occupied, the number of available guest bedrooms
does not exceed three and breakfast is the only meal offered;
         (d)   A private home that receives catered or home delivered food; or
         (e)   The sale of whole produce grown by a producer and sold on a
roadside or locations away from their property and transported by the grower or
transported without third party intervention and/or storage, and the produce is
maintained in a safe, unadulterated condition.
   MOBILE FOOD SALES. The sale of food, other than prepackaged retail
foodstuffs, from a mobile unit.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A facility that is readily movable and is
vehicle mounted (DOT road approved, including wheels and axles), remains at one
physical address for no more than 12 hours at one time, and from which food may
be prepared.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. A food vendor operating for a temporary period. MOBILE
FOOD VENDOR does not include delivery from a licensed restaurant.
   MOBILE PREPACKAGED FOOD SALES. The mobile sale of prepackaged retail
foodstuffs which remains in its original retail packaging.
   MOBILE RETAIL FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A unit from which packaged foods
are sold from a stationary display at a location some distance from the unit,
but still at the same physical address for no more than 12 hours; provided the
licensed unit is on premises and readily available for inspection and the food
has been prepared in a facility that is regulated by the good manufacturing
practices in 21 C.F.R. or regulated as a license holder pursuant to OAC Chapter
310:260 human foods good manufacturing practice regulations.
   OUTDOOR CAFÉ. The placing, locating or permitting of the placing or locating
of chairs, tables and other appurtenances on the right-of-way, such as
sidewalks, adjacent to a business licensed to operate as an eating
establishment where food, beverages (both alcoholic and nonalcoholic) and/or
other refreshments are served, or upon public property within designated areas.
   PACKAGED. Bottled, canned, cartoned, securely bagged or securely wrapped,
whether packaged in a food service establishment or a food processing plant. It
does not include a wrapper, carryout box or other nondurable container used to
containerize food with the purpose of facilitating food protection during
service and receipt of the food by the consumer.
   PEDAL CARRIER. A non-self-propelled, wheeled, pedal unit or like device.
   PRIVATE CLUB. Any association, person, firm or corporation, key club, bottle
club, locker club, pool club or any other kind of club or association excluding
the general public from its premises or place of meeting or congregating, or
operating or exercising control over any other place where persons are
permitted to drink alcoholic beverages other than in a private home.
   PUSHCART. A non-self-propelled food unit that can be manually moved.
   RESTAURANT. Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order café,
luncheonette, sandwich stand or soda fountain, where meals are served, and
other public eating or drinking establishments, as well as kitchens or other
places in which food and drink are prepared for sale or consumption elsewhere.
   SEASONAL FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A facility that is open no more than
180 consecutive days per physical address per year. The SEASONAL FOOD SERVICE
ESTABLISHMENT is limited to serving coffee and snow cones with use of liquid
milk, raw fruits, raw vegetables, nuts in the shell and commercially bottled
syrup, sorghum, honey, sweet cider and other non-time/temperature control for
safety foods.
   SEASONAL FRUIT AND VEGETABLE STAND. An establishment that is open no more
than 180 consecutive days per physical address per year and is limited to
whole, raw fruits and vegetables and unprocessed nuts in the shell.
   SIDEWALK. The area of the public right-of-way between the curb lines or the
lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines reserved for
pedestrian traffic, not including street crossings.
   UTENSILS. Any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, utensils,
containers or other equipment with which food or drink comes in contact during
storage, preparation or serving.
   WASTE MATERIAL. Paper cups, straws, napkins, garbage, beverages and all
other waste matter intended for disposal which, if not placed in a proper
receptacle, tends to create a public nuisance by rendering property unclean,
unsafe and unsightly.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 2019-06, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 3-3-3 LICENSE REQUIRED; VIOLATION.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate a food service establishment
within the City without first obtaining the appropriate business license
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Scope of regulations. The scope of these regulations are to protect
the general public as to food and drink in which reasonable persons would
assume the products would be prepared at licensed facilities by trained
personnel. The regulations do not cover bake sales to raise money for
charitable causes, baked goods labeled as required by state statute, lemonade
stands run by juveniles or pot lucks. These are traditional cultural activities
that the public participates in with no expectation of food quality or safety.
   (C)   Violation. Operation of a food service establishment without the
appropriate business license shall be punishable by up to 60 days’ imprisonment
and/or a fine of up to $500 plus court costs and fees. Each day during which a
violation is committed, continued or permitted shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 2019-06, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 3-3-4 DUTY TO COLLECT TAX.
   It shall be the duty of the licensee to collect and remit the appropriate
state and local taxes. A licensee who fails to remit such taxes is subject to
suspension or revocation of the license granted pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-5 LICENSE TERMS; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Applicants for food service establishment licenses may apply for one
or more types of food service establishment license. Food service establishment
licenses are available with the following terms:
      (1)   Restaurant: annual;
      (2)   Drive-in restaurant: annual;
      (3)   Outdoor café: annual;
      (4)   Mobile food vendor: annual;
      (5)   Mobile food vendor; six-month; and
      (6)   Mobile food vendor: single event.
   (B)   Annual licenses shall expire one year from the date of issue. Six-
month mobile food vendor licenses shall specify the months during which the
license is valid. Single event mobile food vendor license shall specify the
date(s) and event during which the license is valid.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-6 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be posted
in a conspicuous place at the place of business.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-7 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Cleanliness of premises. The premises of all restaurants shall be kept
clean and free of litter or rubbish.
   (B)   Living rooms and sleeping quarters. None of the operations connected
with a food service establishment shall be conducted in any room used as living
or sleeping quarters.
   (C)   Dressing rooms for employees. Adequate lockers or dressing rooms shall
be provided for employees’ clothing and shall be kept clean.
   (D)   Containers for soiled linens, clothing. Soiled linens, coats and
aprons shall be kept in containers provided for this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-8 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   Violation; authority to suspend or revoke license. A license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
administrator upon violation by the holder of any of the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Application for reinstatement; reinspection. The operator of any food
service establishment whose license has been suspended may at any time make
application for the reinstatement of the license. Within one week after the
receipt of a satisfactory application, accompanied by a statement signed by the
applicant to the effect that the violated specifications have been conformed
with, the administrator shall make a reinspection and thereafter as many
additional reinspections as deemed necessary to assure himself that the
applicant is again complying with the requirements, and in case the findings
indicate compliance, shall order the reinstatement of the license.
   (C)   Appeal. Licensees and permittees shall have the right to appeal the
decision of the administrator to the City Council, in writing, within ten days
from the date of notice. An appeal does not stay the suspension or revocation
of any license or permit. The hearing before the City Council shall be held at
the next regularly scheduled meeting. The decision of the City Council shall be
final.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-8) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-9 RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Separate license each location; eligibility.
      (1)   A restaurant that has more than one location shall have a separate
license for each location.
      (2)   Applicants must have a valid license from the Oklahoma Department
of Health.
   (B)   Application; fee.
      (1)   Application. Every application for a restaurant license shall be in
writing, signed and sworn to by the applicant, and shall be filed with the City
Clerk. The application shall be on a form provided by the City Clerk and shall
contain the following:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, date of birth,
telephone number and address of the applicant; if a partnership, the business
name of the partnership and the name, date of birth, telephone number and
address of each partner; if a corporation, the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of its principal officers and the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of all directors thereof;
         (b)   The names under which the applicant has engaged, does engage and
proposes to engage in food service;
         (c)   Proof that the food service establishment is licensed by the
Oklahoma Department of Health;
         (d)   Copy of Oklahoma Sales Tax permit; and
         (e)   Evidence in writing that all required licenses or health permits
required by the county and/or state have been obtained. If alcoholic beverages
are to be served, the license issued, and renewals issued by the Alcoholic
Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission shall be furnished to the City and
the appropriate city alcoholic beverage license must be obtained before the
sale of any alcoholic beverages may commence. If low point beer is to be
served, the license issued, and renewals issued by the county shall be
furnished to the City and the appropriate city low point beer license obtained
before the sale of any alcoholic beverages may commence. Annual license
renewals from the ABLE Commission and the county shall be provided to the City.
      (2)   Fee. Applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as
set out in §
2-6B-8(A).
(Prior Code, § 3-3-9) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-10 DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT.
   (A)   Separate license each location; eligibility.
      (1)   A drive-in restaurant that has more than one location shall have a
separate license for each location.
      (2)   Applicants must have a valid license from the Oklahoma Department
of Health.
   (B)   Application; plat required; fee.
      (1)   Application. Every application for a drive-in restaurant license
shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the applicant, and shall be filed
with the City Clerk. The application shall be on a form provided by the City
Clerk and shall contain the following:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, date of birth,
telephone number and address of the applicant; if a partnership, the business
name of the partnership and the name, date of birth, telephone number and
address of each partner; if a corporation, the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of its principal officers and the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of all directors thereof;
         (b)   The names under which the applicant has engaged, does engage and
proposes to engage in food service;
         (c)   Proof that the food service establishment is licensed by the
Oklahoma Department of Health;
         (d)   Copy of Oklahoma Sales Tax permit;
         (e)   The number of motor vehicles which the proposed drive-in
restaurant is designed to accommodate;
         (f)   The hours of operation for the proposed drive-in restaurant; and
         (g)   Such other information as the Code Official shall deem
necessary.
      (2)   Plat required; contents. The application shall be accompanied by a
plat or drawing of the proposed drive-in restaurant showing:
         (a)   Its location, size and capacity;
         (b)   The location and size of entrances and exits;
         (c)   The kinds of ground surface;
         (d)   The location, size and construction of all structures; and
         (e)   The location, size and construction of surrounding walls, fences
or barriers.
      (3)   Fee. Applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as
set out in §
2-6B-8(B).
   (C)   Issuance of license; conditions. The Director of Finance shall issue a
license when he finds that:
      (1)   There is no apparent danger to the health and safety of the people
of the City;
      (2)   The applicant, its officers or agents, if any, are capable of
operating the proposed drive-in restaurant in a manner consistent with the
public health and safety;
      (3)   Conducting a drive-in restaurant at the location designated during
the hours applied for will not result in the violation of any law or ordinance
and will not result in a disturbance of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood; and
      (4)   The requirements of this chapter and of all other governing laws
and ordinances have been met.
   (D)   Maintenance of order; loitering; nuisances. The licensee shall
maintain quiet and good order and shall not permit disorderly conduct or
loitering upon the licensed premises. Such licensee shall not cause or create
any noise or other nuisance, or permit others to do so, on the parking area of
a drive-in restaurant whereby the quiet and good order of the premises or of
the neighborhood is disturbed.
   (E)   Noise and disturbances created by others. No person on the premises of
a drive-in restaurant shall race the motor of any motor vehicle, blow any horn
or make or cause to be made any other loud or offensive noise, nuisance or
disturbance whereby the quiet and good order of the neighborhood is disturbed.
   (F)   Litter control.
      (1)   Use of receptacles required. No person shall place, throw or
deposit any waste material or refuse upon the outside premises or parking area
of a drive-in restaurant or on any street, alley or adjoining property or in
the vicinity of a drive-in restaurant, except in adequate receptacles provided
for that purpose, nor shall the licensee permit such conduct.
      (2)   Keeping premises free of litter. The licensee shall, at least once
in 24 hours, dispose of waste materials which tend to create a public nuisance
on the premises. He shall keep the premises whereon the drive-in restaurant is
located, together with the parking area and that portion of any street or alley
adjoining the drive-in restaurant, free from waste material and shall not
permit or allow it to blow from the premises. The licensee shall provide the
drive-in restaurant with a sufficient number of adequate refuse containers.
   (G)   Alcoholic beverages, low point beer, consumption or possession. No
person on the premises of a drive-in restaurant, whether in or out of a motor
vehicle, shall drink, have in his possession or under his control or offer to
another to drink, any beer, wine, intoxicating liquor or low point beer. This
provision shall not apply to any person when served inside the building by a
drive-in restaurant duly licensed to serve such beverages. The licensee shall
not permit anyone who is intoxicated to remain on the premises.
   (H)   Parking area requirements.
      (1)   Illumination. The parking area of any drive-in restaurant shall be
adequately illuminated by electric lights which shall be so arranged by the
licensee as to reflect away from any adjoining residential property.
      (2)   Paving. The parking area on the premises of a drive-in restaurant
shall be satisfactorily paved by the licensee so as to avoid creating dust and
to provide for adequate drainage of surface water.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-10) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-11 OUTDOOR CAFÉS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   Requirement. It shall be unlawful for any person to create,
establish, operate, maintain or otherwise be engaged in the business of running
an outdoor café upon the sidewalks or public property located within the Enid
Town Square Overlay District, unless he shall hold a currently valid permit
issued under the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Temporary permit; denial. The outdoor café permit is a temporary
permit, which may be denied for any reason. No property right is created by
this chapter and the decision of the administrator shall be final, unless
appealed to the City Council.
   (B)   Eligibility.
      (1)   Applicants must hold a city restaurant license and be located
within the Enid Town Square Overlay District.
      (2)   Applicants must have a valid license from the Oklahoma Department
of Health.
   (C)   Application; plat required; fee.
      (1)   Application. Every application for an outdoor café license shall be
in writing, signed and sworn to by the applicant, and shall be filed with the
City Clerk. The application shall be on a form provided by the City Clerk and
shall contain the following:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, date of birth,
telephone number and address of the applicant; if a partnership, the business
name of the partnership and the name, date of birth, telephone number and
address of each partner; if a corporation, the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of its principal officers and the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of all directors thereof;
         (b)   The name, home address and telephone number of a responsible
person whom the City may notify or contact at any time concerning the
applicant’s permit;
         (c)   Proof that the food service establishment is licensed by the
Oklahoma Department of Health;
         (d)   A copy of a valid restaurant license to operate a restaurant
adjacent to the public property which is the subject of the application;
         (e)   The hours of operation for the proposed outdoor café;
         (f)   Proof of current liability insurance, issued by an insurance
company licensed to do business in the state, protecting the licensee and the
City from all claims for damage to property and bodily injury, including death,
which may arise from operation under or in connection with the permit. Such
insurance shall name the City as an additional insured and shall provide that
the policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date
without 30 days’ advance written notice to the City. The general liability
insurance policy shall be in the minimum aggregate amount of $1,000,000 total
limits. The policy renewal shall be received by the City at the time of
application and annual permit renewal;
         (g)   Evidence in writing that all required licenses or health permits
required by the county and/or state have been obtained. If alcoholic beverages
are to be served, the license issued, and renewals issued by the Alcoholic
Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission shall be furnished to the City and
the appropriate city alcoholic beverage license must be obtained before the
sale of any alcoholic beverages may commence. If low point beer is to be
served, the license issued, and renewals issued by the county shall be
furnished to the City and the appropriate city low point beer license obtained
before the sale of any alcoholic beverages may commence. Annual license
renewals from the ABLE Commission and the county shall be provided to the City;
and
         (h)   Such other information as the administrator shall deem
necessary.
      (2)   Plat required; contents. The application shall be accompanied by a
plat or drawing of the proposed outdoor café showing:
         (a)   Its location, size and capacity;
         (b)   The location and size of entrances and exits;
         (c)   The layout and dimensions of the existing public area and
adjacent private property;
         (d)   The layout and size of all tables, chairs and other
appurtenances;
         (e)   Photographs, drawings or manufacturers’ brochures fully
describing the appearance of the proposed perimeter fencing, tables, chairs,
umbrellas or other appurtenances related to the business, in accordance with
the adopted design guidelines, as to weight, color, style and other similar
standards; and
         (f)   Perimeter fencing shall be required. The fencing design shall
meet uniform criteria as developed and specified by the design guidelines. When
the fencing is later removed, the property owner shall repair all damage to the
sidewalk caused by the anchoring of the fencing.
      (3)   Fee. Applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as
set out in §
2-6B-8(C). This fee is in addition to the restaurant license fee required for
operation within the City.
   (D)   Public comment. Upon initial receipt of an application for an outdoor
café, the City shall notify by mail the owners of property lying within a 300-
foot radius of the permit area specified on the application. The notification
shall provide for a ten-day period in which public comments will be received
regarding the application and its specific contents and proposals. The City may
consider any complaints or objections that have been received during the
preceding year, but no notice or period of comment shall be required upon
receipt of a renewal application.
   (E)   Issuance or denial. Not later than 30 days after the filing of a
completed application for an outdoor café permit, the applicant shall be
notified by the administrator of the decision on the issuance or denial of the
permit. If the permit is issued, said permit may be renewed annually upon the
date of the initial issuance.
   (F)   Conditions. The issuance of an outdoor café permit shall contain the
following conditions.
      (1)   Term; fees nonrefundable. Each permit shall be effective for one
year from the date of issuance. If the business is licensed by the ABLE
Commission, the effective date of the permit issued by the City may be
concurrent with the ABLE permit. If a permit is revoked, the prorated fee for
the remaining year shall not be refunded. No fees will be refunded for periods
of suspension.
      (2)   Permit nontransferable. The permit issued shall be personal to the
permittee only and shall not be assigned or transferred.
      (3)   Temporary suspension authorized.
         (a)   The permit may be temporarily suspended for a 48-hour period,
with five days’ written notice by the administrator when necessary to clear the
public property for the safety of the public in accordance with a community or
special event authorized by a permit issued by the City.
         (b)   The administrator may temporarily suspend the permit or require
the removal of items within the encroachment area when street, sidewalk, common
area or utility repairs necessitate such action.
      (4)   Area. The permit shall be specifically limited to the area shown on
the exhibit attached to and made part of the permit.
      (5)   Maintenance of area, cleanliness. The encroachment area covered by
the permit shall be maintained in a neat and orderly appearance at all times,
and the area shall be cleared of all debris on a periodic basis during the day,
and again at the close of each business day.
      (6)   Advertising. No advertising shall be permitted, except for menus.
      (7)   Tables and chairs attached to fixtures; seating requirements. No
tables or chairs or any other parts of the business shall be attached, chained
or in any manner affixed to any tree, post, sign or other fixtures, curb or
sidewalk within or near the permitted area. No additional outdoor seating
authorized under this chapter shall be used for calculating seating
requirements pertaining to location of, application for, or issuance of, an
ABLE license for any establishment or be used as the basis for computing
required seating for restaurants and dining rooms, or as grounds for claiming
exemption from such requirements under the provisions of any city or state law.
      (8)   Quality and design of furniture, fencing. Tables, chairs,
umbrellas, fencing and any other appurtenances shall be of such quality of
design, materials and workmanship as specified by the design guidelines.
      (9)   Use of glass containers. The City retains the right to suspend the
privilege of using glass containers within the encroachment area. The use of
glass containers may be revoked if an incident jeopardizes the health, safety
and welfare of customers or the general public.
      (10)   Serving alcoholic beverages. Upon any city sidewalk, the serving
and consumption of alcoholic beverages will be limited to those customers
seated/standing within the permitted encroachment area, bounded by perimeter
fencing which shall completely enclose said encroachment area.
      (11)   Location, placement of business related items. No permittee may
place any items for sale or other equipment, tables or chairs on any portion of
the public property other than that directly in front of his existing place of
business without the written consent of adjacent landowners and businesses.
      (12)   Obstructing passageways. No permittee may block or restrict the
passageway to less than six feet in width, or block ingress or egress to or
from any building. In areas of congested pedestrian activity, the administrator
is authorized to require a wider pedestrian path, as circumstances dictate.
Also, no items or appurtenances shall be placed in a manner as to block any
driveway, crosswalk, bus stop or counter service window. The physical elements
or features located within the encroachment area (e.g., awnings, umbrellas,
canopies not attached to the building, plants, planters and the like) shall not
overhang the adjacent area set aside for the pedestrian passageway.
      (13)   Physical or visual barriers. No permittee may place objects around
the perimeter of an area occupied by tables and chairs which would have the
effect of forming a physical or visual barrier, except perimeter fencing shall
be required where alcoholic beverages are to be served.
      (14)   Fencing and other appurtenances; compliance with requirements. No
permittee may use fencing, rails, tables, chairs, umbrellas and any other
appurtenances of such quality, design, materials and workmanship that have not
been specified by the design guidelines, as well as this code.
      (15)   Noise control. No permittee may use or operate any loudspeaker,
public address system, radio, sound amplifier or any other device in violation
of the noise regulations contained in §
5-5E-8.
      (16)   Leaving equipment, furnishings on street overnight. No permittee
may store or leave any equipment, or furniture, or other items or appurtenances
overnight on any street or sidewalk, except for tables and chairs, which may be
kept in the permitted encroachment area at the permittee’s risk.
   (G)   Removal of property. Tables, chairs and other appurtenances of the
business may be removed by the Public Works Department, and a reasonable fee
charged for labor, transportation and storage, should the permittee fail to
remove the items within 48 hours of receipt of the administrator’s notice to do
so for any reason provided for under this chapter. The action shall become
effective upon the receipt of such notice by certified mail.
   (H)   Suspension or revocation of permit; notice.
      (1)   Grounds for suspension or revocation. The administrator, or his
designee, may suspend or revoke a permit issued under this chapter at any time
for any business authorized in the City if it is found that:
         (a)   Any required business or health permit, or license has been
suspended, revoked or canceled;
         (b)   The permittee does not have insurance in force which is correct
and effective in the minimum amount as specified in this chapter;
         (c)   Conditions of pedestrian or vehicular traffic cause congestion,
necessitating removal of the encroachment;
         (d)   Violations of this chapter or breaches of conditions of this
permit have occurred;
         (e)   The permittee has failed to make modifications upon receipt of
the administrator’s notice to make such modifications delivered in writing to
the permittee; and
         (f)   There is a failure to maintain the primary food or beverage
service use and the requisite licenses therefor.
      (2)   Notice of suspension or revocation. Upon suspension or revocation,
the administrator shall give notice of such action to the permittee, in
writing, stating the action which has been taken and the reason therefor. The
action shall be effective upon the receipt of such notice by certified mail.
The decision of the administrator shall be final, unless appealed to the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-11) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-3-12 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   Separate license; eligibility.
      (1)   A mobile food vendor that has more than one mobile unit shall have
a separate license for each unit.
      (2)   With the exception of growers who are selling only their own fruits
and vegetables, applicants must have a valid license from the Oklahoma
Department of Health.
   (B)   Application; fee.
      (1)   Application. Every application for a mobile food vendor license
shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the applicant, and shall be filed
with the City Clerk. The application shall be on a form provided by the City
Clerk and shall contain the following:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, date of birth,
telephone number and address of the applicant; if a partnership, the business
name of the partnership and the name, date of birth, telephone number and
address of each partner; if a corporation, the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of its principal officers and the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of all directors thereof;
         (b)   The names under which the applicant has engaged, does engage and
proposes to engage in food service;
         (c)   Proof that the food service establishment is licensed by the
Oklahoma Department of Health; and
         (d)   Copy of Oklahoma Sales Tax permit except for growers of farm,
orchard or garden products sold directly to the consumer when the products are
sold where grown.
      (2)   Fee. Applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as
set out in §
2-6B-8(D).
   (C)   Types of mobile food vendors; additional restrictions.
      (1)   Mobile food sales.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   Mobile food service establishments (food trucks);
            2.   Mobile retail food service establishments;
            3.   Pushcarts;
            4.   Pedal carriers; and
            5.   Temporary stands.
         (b)   Geographical and other restrictions:
            1.   Authorized on private property in commercial and industrial
zones;
            2.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of any public or
private school during school hours or during school related events except when
authorized in writing by said school;
            3.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of the entrance to a
stationary business establishment which is open for business and is offering
for sale the same or similar product as an item offered for sale by the
licensee unless authorized in writing by said stationary business
establishment;
            4.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of a restaurant, café
or other stationary eating establishment which is open for business unless
authorized in writing by the stationary eating establishment;
            5.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of a public park where
a city authorized concession stand is located while the concession stand is
open for business unless authorized in writing by the City;
            6.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of a special event on
public property unless licensee is taking part in the special event;
            7.   Drive-through/drive-by service and seating are not authorized;
and
            8.   Garbage receptacles shall be provided for customer use.
Licensee shall be responsible for cleaning all of the public way surrounding
the licensee’s location of all debris, trash and litter generated by the
vendor’s activities at that location.
         (c)   Motorized vehicles:
            1.   Shall be enclosed with top and sides;
            2.   Interior walls, floor, ceiling and counters shall be of
smooth, durable material, capable of withstanding repeated washing and
scrubbing;
            3.   Shall be kept well painted, in good repair and in good
sanitary condition; and
            4.   Shall not be used for any other purpose.
         (d)   Licensees taking part in a special event on public property must
comply with the special event ordinance, Title 1, Chapter 15. No additional
cost will be assessed.
      (2)   Mobile prepackaged food sales.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   Motorized vehicles;
            2.   Trailers;
            3.   Pushcarts;
            4.   Pedal carriers; and
            5.   Temporary stands.
         (b)   Geographical and other restrictions:
            1.   Authorized on private property in agricultural, commercial and
industrial zones;
            2.   Authorized in residential zones between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. Applicants and employees of vendors that cater to children such
as ice cream trucks shall not have been convicted of any violent crime or a
crime which requires sex offender registry;
            3.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of any public or
private school during school hours or during school related events except when
authorized in writing by said school;
            4.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of the entrance to a
stationary business establishment which is open for business and is offering
for sale the same or similar product as an item offered for sale by the
licensee unless authorized in writing by said stationary business
establishment;
            5.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of a restaurant, café
or other stationary eating establishment which is open for business unless
authorized in writing by the stationary eating establishment;
            6.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of a public park where
a city authorized concession stand is located while the concession stand is
open for business unless authorized in writing by the City;
            7.   Licensee shall not sell within 100 feet of a special event on
public property unless licensee is taking part in the special event and holds a
special event vendor permit;
            8.   Drive-through/drive-by service and seating are not authorized;
and
            9.   Garbage receptacles shall be provided for customer use.
Licensee shall be responsible for cleaning all of the public way surrounding
the licensee’s location of all debris, trash and litter generated by the
vendor’s activities at that location.
         (c)   Licensees may make temporary stops to sell food or beverages on
the public right-of-way. Such stops shall last no longer than ten minutes,
shall not impede the normal flow of traffic and shall not constitute a traffic
hazard. No customer shall be served on the street side of the vehicle.
         (d)   Licensees taking part in a special event on public property must
comply with the special event ordinance, Title 1, Chapter 15. No additional
cost will be assessed.
   (D)   Mobile food vendor food court.
      (1)   Separate license each location. A mobile food vendor food court
owner that has more than one location shall have a separate license for each
location.
      (2)   Application; fee.
         (a)   Application. Every application for a mobile food vendor food
court license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the applicant, and
shall be filed with the City Clerk. The application shall be on a form provided
by the City Clerk and shall contain the following: If the applicant is an
individual, the name, date of birth, telephone number and address of the
applicant; if a partnership, the business name of the partnership and the name,
date of birth, telephone number and address of each partner; if a corporation,
the names, telephone numbers and addresses of its principal officers and the
names, telephone numbers and addresses of all directors thereof.
         (b)   Fee. Applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee,
as set out in §
2-6B-8(E).
      (3)   Required facilities. Mobile food vendor food court owners shall
provide the following:
         (a)   Public restrooms;
         (b)   Trash facilities;
         (c)   Public parking;
         (d)   Tables and seating; and
         (e)   Utilities.
      (4)   Plat required; contents. The application shall be accompanied by a
plat or drawing of the proposed mobile food vendor food court showing:
         (a)   Its location and dimensions;
         (b)   The locations available for mobile food vendors;
         (c)   The location and size of vehicle entrances and exits;
         (d)   The location and type of surface of parking;
         (e)   The location and size of tables, chairs and other furniture;
         (f)   The location and dimensions of restrooms;
         (g)   The location and type of utilities; and
         (h)   If any portion of the mobile food vendor food court will be
located inside of a building, the location and type of heating and/or cooling
to be used in the building.
      (5)   Vendor’s responsibilities. When a licensed mobile food vendor is
located in a licensed mobile food vendor food court, the vendor shall be
responsible for complying with all federal, state and local laws and
regulations regarding mobile food vendors with the exception of restrooms and
trash receptacles, which shall be provided by the mobile food vendor food court
licensee.
      (6)   Issuance or denial. The applicant shall be notified by the
administrator of the decision on the issuance or denial of the permit as soon
as possible. Applications may be emailed to the administrator to allow quick
processing.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-12) (Ord. 2017-17, passed 9-7-2017)
§ 3-3-13 SEASONAL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Separate license each location; eligibility.
      (1)   A seasonal food establishment that has more than one location shall
have a separate license for each location.
      (2)   With the exception of growers who are selling only their own fruits
and vegetables, applicants must have a valid license from the Oklahoma
Department of Health.
   (B)   Application; fee.
      (1)   Application. Every application shall be in writing, signed and
sworn to by the applicant, and shall be filed with the City Clerk. The
application shall be on a form provided by the City Clerk and shall contain the
following:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, date of birth,
telephone number and address of the applicant; if a partnership, the business
name of the partnership and the name, date of birth, telephone number and
address of each partner; if a corporation, the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of its principal officers and the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of all directors thereof;
         (b)   The names under which the applicant has engaged, does engage and
proposes to engage in food service;
         (c)   Proof that the food service establishment is licensed by the
Oklahoma Department of Health;
         (d)   Copy of Oklahoma Sales Tax permit except for growers of farm,
orchard or garden products sold directly to the consumer when the products are
sold where grown; and
         (e)   A description or drawing that details the establishment’s
location, the dimensions of the structure, the location and size of vehicle
entrances and exits, and the location and type of parking and parking surface.
      (2)   Fee. Applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as
set out in §
2-6B-8(D).
      (3)   Issuance or denial. The applicant shall be notified by the
administrator of the decision on the issuance or denial of the permit as soon
as possible. Applications may be emailed to the administrator to allow quick
processing.
   (C)   Seasonal food service establishments.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Snow cone or drink stands;
         (b)   Seasonal fruit and vegetable stand; and
         (c)   Farmers’ markets. Only one license is required for a market.
Individual sellers within the market are required to comply with applicable
state law.
      (2)   Geographical and other restrictions:
         (a)   Authorized on private property in commercial and industrial
zones;
         (b)   Drive-through/drive-by service is not authorized;
         (c)   Garbage receptacles shall be provided for customer use; and
         (d)   Seating must be approved by the Code Official.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-13) (Ord. 2017-17, passed 9-7-2017)
CHAPTER 4: RESERVED
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   This chapter has been repealed by Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015. See §
3-3-10.
CHAPTER 5: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   This chapter has been repealed by Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015. See §
3-3-11.
 
CHAPTER 6: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   This chapter has been repealed by Ord. 2022-11, passed 4-19-2022.
 
CHAPTER 7: SECURITY COMPANIES AND ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
3-7-1   Purpose
   
3-7-2   Definitions
   
3-7-3   State license for alarm business
   
3-7-4   Owner or user permit
   
3-7-5   Administration and enforcement; inspection
   
3-7-6   False alarms
   
3-7-7   Instruction for operation of systems
   
3-7-8   Emergency notification; maintenance of records
   
3-7-9   Emergency call records
   
3-7-10   Minimal system requirements
   
3-7-11   Operational defects remedied
   
3-7-12   Notification of tests
   
3-7-13   Automatic dialing devices; prerecorded messages
   
3-7-14   Notice of disruption in service
   
3-7-15   Change of information required on permit application
   
3-7-16   Notice requirements
   
3-7-17   Violations and penalties
§ 3-7-1 PURPOSE.
   While recognizing the value of effective alarm systems in deterring crime
and while encouraging the use of such alarm systems, it is the purpose of this
chapter to require minimum standards for alarm systems and services and to
license users thereof to improve system effectiveness and to reduce, insofar as
possible, the misuse of emergency public service. This chapter does not apply
to fire alarms.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Title 9, Chapter 10
§ 3-7-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any person or firm engaging in the business of installing,
assisting in the installation, servicing, maintaining, repairing, replacing,
moving or removing alarm systems in the City, and duly licensed by the state.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanism, equipment or device which is designed to detect
an unauthorized entry or activity in any building or on any property, or to
direct attention to a robbery, burglary or other emergency in progress, and
which is designed to signal the above occurrences either by a local or audible
alarm which is visible or perceptible outside the building or property or by a
silent or remote alarm, directly or indirectly (by or through a third party),
to the Police Department. The following exclusions are not considered ALARM
SYSTEMS within the meaning of this definition:
      (1)   Devices which only activate alarms that are audible, visible or
perceptible inside the protected premises;
      (2)   Alarm devices affixed to motor vehicles;
      (3)   Alarm devices installed on a temporary basis by the Police
Department; and/or
      (4)   Alarm devices installed in or on premises owned or leased by the
City.
   ANSWERING SERVICE. A telephone answering service providing, among its
services, the receiving, on a continuous basis through trained employees, of
emergency signals from alarm systems and the subsequent relaying of said
messages to the Police Department on a person to person basis.
   APPLICANT. Any person who has requested or is requesting an owner or user
permit to install, operate or maintain an alarm system at a particular
location.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. An alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, any type of
communication or message indicating the existence of an emergency situation
that the alarm system is designed to detect.
   CENTRAL STATION. An office to which alarm systems are connected, where
operators supervise the circuits and where guards and/or servicemen are
maintained continuously to investigate signals.
   DIRECT LINE. A telephone line leading directly from a central station to the
Police Department, where such line is used only to report emergency signals on
a person to person basis.
   EMERGENCY. The existence of a fire, the commission or attempted commission
of a robbery, burglary or other criminal action.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by an alarm business and who installs,
services, maintains, repairs or replaces alarm systems in the City.
   ENHANCED 911 SYSTEM. An emergency phone system which is designed to receive
emergency phone calls by dialing the three digit number 911. The system places
the person requesting emergency service in touch with fire, police and
ambulance services by dialing a single number.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, the negligence of the alarm business operator or his employees or
agents; or the negligence of the owner, user or lessee of an alarm or his
employees or agents; or which otherwise elicits a response by a law enforcement
agency when a situation requiring such response does not in fact exist. Such
terminology does not include, for example, alarms activated by utility line
mishaps, tornados, earthquakes or other violent conditions of nature, or other
conditions clearly beyond the control of the alarm manufacturer, installer,
owner or user.
   MODIFIED CENTRAL STATION. An office to which alarm systems are connected,
where operators supervise the circuits but where guards are not maintained to
investigate alarm signals.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom an alarm system owner or user permit is
issued.
   TRUNK LINE. A telephone line leading into the Police Department and having
the primary purpose of handling emergency signals or messages on a person to
person basis originating through a central station, modified central station or
answering service.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-3 STATE LICENSE FOR ALARM BUSINESS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, manage,
conduct or carry on an alarm business within the City unless there exists a
valid license issued thereto pursuant to the Oklahoma Alarm Industry Act. Nor
shall any person performing any of the above functions at the time of the
adoption of this chapter fail to obtain such a license within the time provided
by said Act.
   (B)   Employees. It shall be unlawful for any person who is employed for the
purpose of engaging in the installing, servicing, maintaining, repairing,
moving or removing, in or on any building or other property within the City,
fire, burglary, robbery or other emergency alarm system, to engage in such
activities unless such person is employed by a business duly licensed pursuant
to the Oklahoma Alarm Industry Act.
(1994 Code, § 27-3) (Prior Code, § 3-7-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. §§ 1800.1 et seq.
§ 3-7-4 OWNER OR USER PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required, displayed; application; fee.
      (1)   Owner or user permit required. No person shall install, connect,
operate, maintain or engage another person to install, operate, connect or
maintain an alarm system at a particular location without first obtaining an
alarm system permit from the City. Nor shall any person owning or using an
alarm system at the time of the adoption of this chapter fail to obtain the
required permit within the time provided in this chapter. Such permit shall be
maintained on the premises with the alarm system and shall be visible from the
exterior and shall be located on or immediately adjacent to the front or main
entrance of the premises.
      (2)   Application. The application shall set forth the full name, address
and telephone number of both the owner or lessee on whose premises the system
will be installed, operated, connected or maintained and the name of the person
or state licensed alarm system business installing, maintaining or servicing
the system, as well as the type (burglar, and the like) of system to be
installed, operated or maintained. Such application shall also contain such
additional information as the Chief of Police shall reasonably deem necessary
for the evaluation and proper processing of the application.
      (3)   Fee. A person required to obtain an alarm system permit shall pay
to the City a yearly nonrefundable application fee established by §
2-6B-5. Previous suspensions or revocations of the permit will be considered as
well as any unpaid false alarm public safety fees before approving the
application.
   (B)   Suspension, revocation or denial. In addition to any penalties which
may be imposed for the violation of certain provisions of this chapter, the
City may, pursuant to the provisions of this section, suspend or revoke an
owner or user permit on any of the following grounds:
      (1)   Fraud or willful and knowing misrepresentation or false statement
made in an application for a permit;
      (2)   Failure to correct any deficiencies in equipment or operation
within seven days after receipt of notice of same from the Chief of Police;
      (3)   Failure to comply with any order or notice issued by the Chief of
Police after the permittee’s rights to hearing and appeal have been exhausted,
or failure to comply with the standards imposed by this chapter within seven
days after notice or order from the Chief of Police; and/or
      (4)   Failure to comply with the regulations and requirements of this
chapter or as otherwise established in this code.
   (C)   Excessive false alarms. An excessive number of false alarms shall be
deemed to be more than four false alarms within any one-year period.
   (D)   Notice. If an excessive number of false alarms occur at any alarm
location, the Police Department shall give written notice to the alarm system
permittee and to the alarm business responsible for maintaining and servicing
the systems, as shown on the permit and application, to take corrective action
within seven calendar days to prevent future false alarms.
   (E)   Suspension after notice. If the corrective action is not accomplished
and communicated in writing to the Department giving notice within seven days
by the permittee or the alarm business, written notice of suspension of the
alarm system permit shall be served upon the permittee by the Police Department
by certified mail, return receipt requested. Such suspension requires the
permittee to immediately remove or disconnect the alarm system.
   (F)   Reinstatement. After an alarm permit has been suspended, the permit
shall not be reinstated until the permittee submits a written request to the
Department suspending the permit, accompanied by a statement that corrective
action has taken place. The Department acting hereunder shall charge the
permittee a reinstatement fee as established by §
2-6B-5.
   (G)   Appeals. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain or
fail to remove or disconnect his alarm system while his alarm system permit is
suspended or after it has been revoked. Any person aggrieved by the action of
the Police Department in ordering the suspension or revocation of a permit
under this section, and requiring the disconnection or removal of the alarm
system, may appeal such action to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-5 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Administration. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered
and enforced by the Chief of Police. The Chief, or his designee, is authorized
to make inspections of emergency alarm systems and of the premises where said
device or system is located, or as otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Inspection. Any inspection of an alarm location or premises shall be
the same as provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-5) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-6 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to utilize an alarm in such a manner
that false alarms occur.
   (B)   A warning citation should issue for the first false alarm in a
calendar year that is responded to by the Police Department. The second false
alarm in a calendar year shall be punishable by a line of $100. The third false
alarm in a calendar year shall be punishable by a fine of $200. Fourth and
subsequent false alarms in a calendar year shall be punishable by a fine of
$500.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-6) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-7 INSTRUCTION FOR OPERATION OF SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Duty. The person owning an alarm business or an employee of such
business shall instruct the alarm system permittee in the proper operation of
the system when it is installed. It shall also be the responsibility of the
alarm business to see that all employees at the location at which said system
is installed are instructed in proper operating procedures to avoid false alarm
signals. It shall be the responsibility of the alarm system permittee to cause
the system to be maintained in reliable operating condition.
   (B)   Service contract required. All alarm businesses shall offer a service
contract to ensure that emergency service and preventative maintenance are
performed on the system.
(1994 Code, § 27-8) (Prior Code, § 3-7-7)
§ 3-7-8 EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION; MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Display of permit. Every person maintaining an audible burglary,
robbery or other emergency alarm system, other than fire alarms, shall make
readily visible, either on, or immediately adjacent to, the front or main
entrance of the building housing the alarm, the permit assigned to that
particular alarm system.
   (B)   Records. The alarm business shall maintain records of at least two
personnel who are designated to respond in case of emergencies.
   (C)   Designated personnel. Upon proper notification of any emergency
condition the owner’s or user’s designated personnel, which may, by agreement,
be assumed by the alarm business, shall proceed immediately to the location of
the activated alarm and render all necessary service and assistance to restore
the alarm to normal condition.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-8) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-9 EMERGENCY CALL RECORDS.
   Alarm businesses who request Police Department response to alarm signals
shall maintain a record of all such emergency calls stating the time, date and
location of the alarm and the Department called. The records shall indicate the
cause of the alarm, and if the alarm is not caused by burglary, robbery or
other emergency, the records shall state corrective action taken to prevent the
recurrence of the alarm. This record shall be current and shall be made
available for inspection by the Chief of Police, or his designated
representative, at any time during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-9) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-10 MINIMAL SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Automatic discontinuance of alarm. Burglary, robbery or other
emergency alarm systems, other than fire alarms, which use a local audible or
visual alarm device to attract the attention of the public shall be equipped so
as to automatically discontinue the alarm within 30 minutes, unless the system
is maintained by an alarm business with 24-hour service employees who can
respond within 30 minutes after notification.
   (B)   Uninterruptable power supply. Every alarm system shall have an
uninterruptable power supply which will sustain the operation of the alarm
system for a minimum period of four hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-10) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-11 OPERATIONAL DEFECTS REMEDIED.
   The sensory mechanisms used in connection with the robbery, burglary or
other emergency alarm systems shall be adjusted to suppress false alarms so
that the device will not be actuated by impulses due to short flashes of light,
wind noises such as the rattling or vibrating of doors or windows, vehicular
noise adjacent to the installation or other forces unrelated to genuine alarms.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-11) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-12 NOTIFICATION OF TESTS.
   Alarm businesses and permittees shall notify the police dispatcher at police
communications prior to any service, test, repair, maintenance, adjustment,
alteration or installation of any alarm system which would directly or
indirectly result in an emergency services response. Any alarm received after
such notification while the system is out of service shall not constitute a
false alarm. Alarm businesses and permittees shall notify the Police Department
when said system is back in service.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-12) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-13 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES; PRERECORDED MESSAGES.
   (A)   Automatic dialing required. Automatic dialing devices with prerecorded
or programmed messages shall be programmed or coded to dial the phone number
designated by the Police Department, and to dial a third party whose name
appears on the permit application.
   (B)   Information in message. The prerecorded or programmed message shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The address and phone number at the location where the emergency
exists;
      (2)   The permit number issued and assigned by the City to this system;
and
      (3)   The type of emergency the system is designed to detect; for
example, a break in while the premises is unattended, or a life threatening
situation.
   (C)   Length of message. The prerecorded or programmed message shall not
last longer than 25 seconds and shall not be repeated more than twice, and if
repeated, shall have a ten-second pause between the repeated message. In no
case shall said messages or recordings transmit said information for a period
longer than 60 seconds.
   (D)   Issuance of phone number. It shall be unlawful for any person to
program an automatic dialing device to any telephone line which when activated
dials the digits 911. When their permit is issued, the permittee shall be given
a phone number designated by the Police Department for use by alarm systems
with automatic dialing devices.
   (E)   Unlawful to disconnect or reprogram device. It shall be unlawful for a
permittee to fail to disconnect or reprogram an automatic dialing device which
is programmed to dial the digits 911.
   (F)   Violation. A violation of subsection (D) or (E) above shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $200 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-13) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-14 NOTICE OF DISRUPTION IN SERVICE.
   When an alarm business’s service to its subscribers is disrupted for any
reason by the alarm business, or the alarm business becomes aware of such
disruption, it shall promptly notify its subscribers that protection is no
longer being provided.
(1994 Code, § 27-15) (Prior Code, § 3-7-14)
§ 3-7-15 CHANGE OF INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Notice to city of change. Whenever a change occurs relating to the
written information required on the permit application, listing requirements or
other documents filed with the City, the applicant or permittee shall give
written notice of said change to the Police Department within ten days thereof.
   (B)   Change of location. Any changes of ownership at a location formerly or
currently utilizing an alarm system shall be construed as a new installation
and shall require the necessary permit and fees.
   (C)   Alteration of existing system. The replacing, modifying or altering of
an existing permitted system shall not constitute a new installation. Such
replacement shall be subject to the existing permit. However, any change of
permit or license information caused by such action shall be given in writing
to the Police Department within ten days.
   (D)   Confidential information. The information required by this chapter
shall be maintained as confidential and shall only be used for law enforcement
purposes and statistical studies in which information on individuals could not
be discovered. Any unauthorized disclosure is punishable as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-15) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 3-7-16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever a written notice of revocation, correction, suspension and the like
is required of the City, service shall be deemed complete upon deposit in the
United States mail.
(1994 Code, § 27-17) (Prior Code, § 3-7-16)
§ 3-7-17 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations. Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed in violation hereof and shall be subject to the penalty
provided herein.
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Every day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate
violation and shall be subject to the full penalty contained herein.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not to exceed $100 plus costs, unless
otherwise stated.
(1994 Code, §27-18) (Prior Code, § 3-7-17)
CHAPTER 8: AMBULANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
3-8-1   Definitions
   
3-8-2   Adoption of state rules and regulations; supplementary provisions
   
3-8-3   General operating regulations
   
3-8-4   Vehicles and equipment
   
3-8-5   Insurance
   
3-8-6   Rates and charges
   
3-8-7   Personnel staffing
   
3-8-8   911 dispatching procedure
   
3-8-9   Use of emergency warning devices
   
3-8-10   Central place of business; telephone number
   
3-8-11   Termination of service
   
3-8-12   Authority to establish a sole provider system
Article A: Ambulance Service Business License
   
3-8A-1   License required; eligibility
   
3-8A-2   Application form; contents; fee
   
3-8A-3   Investigation
   
3-8A-4   Public hearing
   
3-8A-5   Issuance
   
3-8A-6   Expiration; renewal and late fees
   
3-8A-7   Prohibited conduct
   
3-8A-8   Suspension; revocation
Article B: Ambulance Vehicle Permits
   
3-8B-1   Permit required
   
3-8B-2   Application form; contents; fee
   
3-8B-3   Inspection
   
3-8B-4   Issuance
   
3-8B-5   Expiration and renewal
   
3-8B-6   Suspension; revocation
Article C: Drivers and Attendants
   
3-8C-1   License required; eligibility
   
3-8C-2   Application form; contents; fee
   
3-8C-3   Investigation; report required
   
3-8C-4   Issuance of license and identification card
   
3-8C-5   Expiration; renewal; late fees
   
3-8C-6   Prohibited conduct
   
3-8C-7   Suspension; revocation
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-2501 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 3-8-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, including articles A, B and C, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any ground, air or water vehicle which is approved by the
Oklahoma Commissioner of Health, designed and equipped to transport a patient
or patients and to provide appropriate on scene and en route patient
stabilization and care as required. Vehicles used as AMBULANCES shall meet such
standards as may be required by the Oklahoma Board of Health for approval, and
shall display evidence of such approval at all times.
   AMBULANCE ATTENDANT LICENSE. A license issued under Article C which
authorizes an emergency medical technician licensed by the state to care for
the patients of an ambulance service.
   AMBULANCE BUSINESS LICENSE. A license issued under Article A which
authorizes an ambulance service to operate within the city limits.
   AMBULANCE DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued under Article C which authorizes
an emergency medical technician licensed by the state to drive ambulances for
an ambulance service.
   AMBULANCE PATIENT or PATIENT. A wounded, injured, sick, invalid or otherwise
incapacitated person who is or will be transported to or from a healthcare
facility in an ambulance.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. Any private firm or governmental agency which is licensed
by the Oklahoma Department of Health to provide levels of medical care based on
certification standards promulgated by the Oklahoma Board of Health.
   AMBULANCE VEHICLE PERMIT. The permit which an operator is required to obtain
under this chapter for each and every motor vehicle operated under the
ambulance service’s business license.
   ATTENDANT. An emergency medical technician licensed by the state who has the
duty of caring for a sick, ill or injured person who is being transported as a
patient in an ambulance.
   DISPATCHER. An individual employed by an ambulance service responsible for
sending an ambulance to provide service or transport to a patient.
   DRIVER. An individual licensed by the state with the appropriate driver’s
license for the size, weight and type of motor vehicle used, who has
successfully completed an emergency vehicle operator course approved by the
Oklahoma Department of Health, as well as any required refresher course.
   EMERGENCY. A sudden, unforeseen event giving rise to a need for ambulance
transport with life support services and is a condition which an individual has
a need for immediate medical attention or where the potential for such need is
perceived by emergency medical personnel or a public safety agency.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN/ADVANCED CARDIAC. An individual licensed by the
Oklahoma Department of Health to perform medical services at an advanced
cardiac standard of care in accordance with the Oklahoma Emergency Response
Systems Development Act and in accordance with the rules and standards
promulgated by the Oklahoma Board of Health.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN/BASIC. An individual licensed by the Oklahoma
Department of Health to perform emergency medical services at a basic level or
standard of care in accordance with the Oklahoma Emergency Response Systems
Development Act and in accordance with the rules and standards promulgated by
the Oklahoma Board of Health.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN/INTERMEDIATE. An individual licensed by the
Oklahoma Department of Health to perform medical services at an intermediate
standard of care in accordance with the Oklahoma Emergency Response Systems
Development Act and in accordance with the rules and standards promulgated by
the Oklahoma Board of Health.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN/PARAMEDIC. An individual licensed by the
Oklahoma Department of Health to perform emergency medical services at a
paramedic level or standard of care in accordance with the Oklahoma Emergency
Response Systems Development Act and in accordance with the rules and standards
promulgated by the Oklahoma Board of Health.
   MEDICAL DIRECTOR. A physician, fully licensed without restriction, who acts
as a paid or volunteer medical advisor to a licensed ambulance service and who
monitors and directs the care so provided. Such physicians shall meet such
qualifications and requirements as may be promulgated by the Oklahoma Board of
Health.
   OPERATOR. The owner, director or manager of any ambulance service which is
licensed to operate in the city limits.
   PRIVATE SICK CALLS. Includes all private calls made directly to an ambulance
service company, except those defined herein as “emergency accident calls”.
   RESPONSE TIME. The elapsed time from the time the emergency call is received
by the ambulance service until a complete crew arrives on scene, unless the
call is scheduled in advance.
   TRANSFERABLE.
      (1)   Any change in the business structure of a licensee, including, but
not limited to, changes from or to:
         (a)   A sole proprietorship;
         (b)   A partnership, including any change in the partners; and
         (c)   A corporation, including any change in the shareholders, whether
by operation of law or otherwise.
      (2)   Bankruptcy, an assignment for the benefit of creditors or the
appointment of a receiver.
      (3)   A sale or transfer of over ten percent (10%) of the assets of a
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-1) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-2 ADOPTION OF STATE RULES AND REGULATIONS; SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS.
   All applicable statutes, rules and regulations governing emergency medical
services, ambulances, licensing of ambulance services and certification and
licensing of personnel, as those statutes, rules and regulations may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set out
herein. The provisions of this chapter are supplementary to all other
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-2) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-3 GENERAL OPERATING REGULATIONS.
   All ambulance services shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   Providing service. Every ambulance service shall provide immediate
service, 24 hours daily, each and every day.
   (B)   Vehicles in service. Every operator shall have a minimum of two
ambulances in service in the city limits, which shall be fully staffed for
emergency calls 24 hours daily, at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the time,
calculated monthly. An ambulance on an emergency response and/or emergency
transport outside the city limits, but within the licensee’s designated service
area on file in the emergency systems office of the Oklahoma Department of
Health shall not be considered in violation of this subsection (B). The number
of ambulances required to be in service in the city limits may be reduced,
after an application providing for such request is filed with the City Clerk, a
hearing scheduled and heard before the City Commission and the decision of the
City Commission reduced to writing, with a finding made that granting such
request will not adversely affect the total emergency medical service to the
people of the City. The number of ambulances required to be in service in the
city limits may also be increased, in writing, by the City Commission, after
providing for a public hearing, findings and a decision based on the criteria
as provided hereinabove.
   (C)   Employee uniform. Every operator shall adopt and use a distinctive
uniform color scheme which shall not infringe upon any color scheme already in
use by another ambulance operator. Every driver and attendant shall be required
to wear the appropriate uniform while on duty.
   (D)   Answering calls. An ambulance service shall respond when called,
regardless of a patient’s ability to pay. Patients shall be loaded and
transported without being subject to unreasonable delays.
   (E)   Sanitary bed linens. Clean and sanitary bed linens shall be provided
for each patient and shall be changed as soon as practicable after the
transport of a patient.
   (F)   Daily manifest. Drivers shall maintain a daily manifest upon which
shall be recorded the time, place or origin, destination and charges for each
trip to be made.
   (G)   Response time. Every ambulance service shall maintain an emergency
response time of eight minutes, 59 seconds or less with a ninety percent (90%)
accuracy, calculated monthly.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-3) (Ord. 2015-09, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 3-8-4 VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Vehicle identification; business name on vehicle. Each ambulance shall
be identified in such a manner as to indicate clearly that the vehicle is used
for ambulance purposes only. The ambulance service operator’s business name
shall appear on each side and on the rear of the vehicle in letters of not less
than three inches in height and one-half inch in width on a metal portion of
the body. No advertising of any type shall be placed on the vehicle.
   (B)   Maintain in good operating condition. License holders shall maintain
in good operating condition and ready for use, all vehicles and equipment which
shall be modern and capable of rendering a satisfactory ambulance service. All
vehicles and equipment must be approved by the licensee’s medical director and
shall meet or exceed the requirements as required for licensing by the state.
   (C)   Inspection. All mechanical, safety and special equipment shall be
subject to inspection at any time by authorized officials. No ambulance that
has been substantially damaged or altered shall be again placed in service
until it has been reinspected. All ambulances shall be subject to the same
statutes and ordinances, and rules and regulations relating to safety and
operating equipment applicable to other motor vehicles in the City.
   (D)   Police Department authority. The Police Department may conduct vehicle
inspections of all approved ambulance services as often as in their judgment is
warranted to maintain adequate standards, and shall have the right to remove
any ambulance from operation for failure to maintain adequate mechanical
standards of equipment, or for failure to comply with any of the provisions of
this subchapter or Article A, B or C.
   (E)   Vehicle/equipment delay. Should an ambulance or equipment break down
en route to an emergency or while transporting a patient which results in a
delay of more than 15 minutes or a change in equipment in order to complete the
call, reporting of such delay shall be required. The report shall be submitted
to the Office of the City Clerk within ten days of such event and shall outline
the circumstances and the resolution of the occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-4) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-5 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Insurance requirements. Every operator shall maintain in full force
and effect, at all times, the following insurance policies.
      (1)   General liability.
         (a)   Bodily injury liability. Limits shall be carried in an amount
not less than $1,000,000 for any claim or to any claimant who has more than one
claim for loss arising out of a single accident or occurrence; and not less
than $1,000,000 to any claimant for his claim for any other loss arising out of
a single accident or occurrence; and not less than $2,000,000 for any number of
claims arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
         (b)   Property damage liability. Limits shall be carried in an amount
not less than $300,000 for any claim or to any claimant who has more than one
claim for loss arising out of a single accident or occurrence; and not less
than $300,000 to any claimant for his claim for any other loss arising out of a
single accident or occurrence; and not less than $2,000,000 for any number of
claims arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
      (2)   Professional liability.
         (a)   Bodily injury liability. Limits shall be carried in an amount
not less than $1,000,000 for any claim or to any claimant who has more than one
claim for loss arising out of a single accident or occurrence; and not less
than $1,000,000 to any claimant for his claim for any other loss arising out of
a single accident or occurrence; and not less than $2,000,000 for any number of
claims arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
         (b)   Property damage liability. Limits shall be carried in an amount
not less than $300,000 for any claim or to any claimant who has more than one
claim for loss arising out of a single accident or occurrence; and not less
than $300,000 to any claimant for his claim for any other loss arising out of a
single accident or occurrence; and not less than $1,000,000 for any number of
claims arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
      (3)   Automobile liability.
         (a)   Liability. Limits shall be carried in an amount of not less than
$1,000,000 to any claimant who has more than one claim for loss arising out of
a single accident or occurrence; and not less than $1,000,000 to any claimant
for his claim for any other loss arising out of a single accident or
occurrence; and not less than $1,000,000 for any number of claims arising out
of a single accident or occurrence.
         (b)   Comprehensive and collision loss. Limits shall be carried in an
amount of not less than actual cash value with deductibles of not more than
$1,000 per vehicle.
         (c)   Medical payments. Limits shall be carried in an amount of not
less than $100,000 to any claimant who has more than one claim for loss arising
out of a single accident or occurrence; and not less than $300,000 to any
claimant for his claim for any other loss arising out of a single accident or
occurrence.
      (4)   Workers’ compensation. Limits shall be carried in an amount not
less than the amount prescribed by the laws of the state.
      (5)   Contractual liability. If the ambulance service operates a
subscription program, limits shall be carried in an amount not less than the
actual amount collected from the sale of such subscriptions.
      (6)   Umbrella. An additional $1,000,000 umbrella policy must be
provided.
   (B)   Carriers. The insurance policies shall be executed by an insurance or
indemnity carrier authorized to do business in the state.
   (C)   Notice of cancellation. All such certificates of insurance shall
provide for a 30-day cancellation notice to the City Clerk.
   (D)   Proof of insurance. The operator shall submit to the City Clerk
annually, or upon any change in insurance, certificates of insurance.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-5) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-6 RATES AND CHARGES.
   Every person authorized under this chapter to operate one or more ambulances
shall file with the Finance Department a schedule of the cash rates which will
be charged for the transportation of persons in ambulances; notice of any
change in such cash rates shall be given to the City Council in writing at
least 30 days prior to the effective date of such change.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-6) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-7 PERSONNEL STAFFING.
   (A)   Emergency calls.
      (1)   Driver. Each ambulance shall have a driver who shall assist in
attending to a patient and/or preparing an ambulance patient for transport. The
driver shall not also be the attendant.
      (2)   Attendant. Each ambulance shall have, in addition to its driver, an
EMT/paramedic attendant who shall attend to the patient and shall remain with
the ambulance patient being transported.
   (B)   Nonemergency/transport calls.
      (1)   Driver. Each ambulance shall have a driver who shall assist in
attending to a patient and/or preparing an ambulance patient for transport. The
driver shall not also be the attendant.
      (2)   Attendant. Each ambulance shall have, in addition to its driver, an
attendant who shall attend to the patient and shall remain with the ambulance
patient being transported.
   (C)   Dispatcher. Every operator shall, at all times, have stationed at his
central place of business a person who shall be required to promptly answer all
calls for service, promptly dispatch ambulances and be generally responsible
for the conduct of the ambulance service.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-7) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-8 911 DISPATCHING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   More than one licensee; preference. When the dispatcher receives an
emergency call for an ambulance, he shall authorize and dispatch an approved
ambulance service. If there is more than one ambulance service, the police
dispatcher shall use the call distribution method approved by resolution of the
City Council. If there is more than one licensed ambulance service and the
caller prefers to use a particular ambulance service, the police dispatcher
shall authorize and dispatch that ambulance service.
   (B)   Private sick call. If an ambulance service operator receives a private
sick call which is of an emergency nature and desires to answer such call as an
emergency call, the operator shall report to the police dispatcher such call.
The police dispatcher shall then clear such ambulance service to answer such
private sick call.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-8) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-9 USE OF EMERGENCY WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   Use of red lights and siren. An ambulance may respond, after receiving
a call from a private citizen, or from the City, state or county dispatcher, to
a call using red lights and siren.
   (B)   Emergencies. After an ambulance has responded to a call and arrived at
the point of pick up, no ambulance shall proceed to the hospital or other
destination with the use of such emergency warning equipment, except in the
case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-9) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-10 CENTRAL PLACE OF BUSINESS; TELEPHONE NUMBER.
   Each operator shall maintain a central place of business within the city
limits, at which place he shall provide a properly listed telephone for
receiving all calls for ambulance service. Every operator shall keep on file
with the City the business address and telephone number where the operator may
be reached at all times. The operator shall keep the business records and daily
manifests required by this chapter at the central place of business where all
such records and manifests shall be readily accessible for examination by the
Finance Department, the City Council, or their authorized agents.
   (A)   Daily manifests. Every operator shall retain and preserve all daily
manifests for at least six months.
   (B)   Business records. Every operator shall keep accurate records of
receipts from operations, and such other operating information as may be
required by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-10) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-11 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   If an operator determines that termination of service is necessary, the
operator shall give 90 days’ written notice to the City Clerk and shall be
required to continue to furnish the service authorized by the license until:
   (A)   All prepaid ambulance service contracts have expired; or
   (B)   The operator shows proof to the City Clerk that a pro rata part of the
premium for prepaid ambulance service contracts has been returned to the
customer(s).
(Prior Code, § 3-8-11) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8-12 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH A SOLE PROVIDER SYSTEM.
   To safeguard the public health and well being and facilitate the prompt
dispatch of appropriately equipped and staffed ambulances when needed to
protect life and health, the City Council may, pursuant to 63 O.S. § 1-2515,
after competitive bidding, establish a sole provider system for stretcher aid
van and/or ambulance service transports.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-12) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
ARTICLE A: AMBULANCE SERVICE BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 3-8A-1 LICENSE REQUIRED; ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   Requirement. No person shall operate any ambulance service within
the City without first obtaining an ambulance business license issued pursuant
to the provisions of this article.
      (2)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   An ambulance picking up a patient on sick calls only in the
City, and delivering the patient to a destination outside the City, nor shall
it apply to an ambulance picking up a patient outside the City and delivering
the patient to a destination within the City;
         (b)   An ambulance rendering assistance during any catastrophe or
major emergency when the licensee(s) authorized to operate in the City are
insufficient in number or inadequate during such catastrophe or major
emergency, as determined by the City Manager, or his designee;
         (c)   Any ambulance operating within the City solely for the purpose
of a drill or training exercise; or
         (d)   Any ambulance rendering requested assistance to a licensed
ambulance service in cases of disaster or major emergency pursuant to
provisions of a “mutual aid agreement” approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   Eligibility. Applicants must, at a minimum, be:
      (1)   Licensed as an ambulance service by the state at the paramedic life
support level of care;
      (2)   Financially able to render safe and comfortable transportation of
patients;
      (3)   Financially able to maintain and/or replace vehicles and equipment
as needed; and
      (4)   Of good moral character and have a reputation as a law abiding
citizen.
(Prior Code, § 3-8A-1) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8A-2 APPLICATION FORM; CONTENTS; FEE.
   Every application for a license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by
the applicant, and shall be filed with the City Clerk. The application shall be
on a form provided by the City Clerk and shall contain the following:
   (A)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, age and address of the
applicant; if a partnership, the business name of the partnership and the name,
age and address of each partner; if a corporation, the names and addresses of
its principal officers and the names and addresses of all directors thereof;
   (B)   Whether the applicant has previously been licensed as an ambulance
service, and if so, when and by what state or city and whether such license or
registration has been revoked or suspended, and if so, the date of and reason
for such revocation or suspension;
   (C)   The names under which the applicant has engaged, does engage and
proposes to engage in ambulance service;
   (D)   The class of transportation service which the applicant desires to
furnish; number of vehicles; a brief description of the kind and type of
vehicle; passenger capacity of the vehicle; arrangement; and size and gross
weight thereof; model, vehicle identification number and state license number;
   (E)   The names and qualifications of each attendant, driver or dispatcher
employed, or to be employed, in providing ambulance service;
   (F)   A description of the applicant’s training and orientation program for
attendants, drivers and dispatchers;
   (G)   The names and addresses of at least three residents of the City as
references. If the applicant provides service in any other jurisdiction, a
letter of reference from the Chief Executive Officer or the highest elected
official of that jurisdiction regarding the applicant’s qualifications and
service within the jurisdiction should be provided;
   (H)   Copies of insurance policies, as required by §
3-8-5;
   (I)   A list of the rates and charges as required by §
3-8-6;
   (J)   The color(s) and design to be used on the exterior of the vehicle;
   (K)   Applicant’s current financial statement;
   (L)   Proof that the ambulance service is licensed by the Oklahoma
Department of Health at the emergency medical services/paramedic level of
service;
   (M)   The address of the central place of business within the city limits,
as well as the location where vehicles, equipment and personnel will be based
within the city limits; and
   (N)   Ambulance license fee as set out in §
2-6B-4.
(Prior Code, § 3-8A-2) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8A-3 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the City Council shall cause
an investigation to be made of the character and reputation of the applicant as
a law abiding citizen and the ability of the applicant to render safe and
comfortable transportation service and to maintain or replace the equipment for
such service, the financial responsibility of the applicant to maintain
insurance for the payment of personal injury, death and property damage claims,
and other pertinent facts which the City Council may deem relevant in
determining the fitness of the applicant to assume the occupation of an
operator.
(Prior Code, § 3-8A-3) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8A-4 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Public hearing; notice. Upon completion of its investigation, the City
Council shall schedule a public hearing on the application. The City Council
shall give to a license applicant and to all current license holders, notice of
any public hearing by the City Council affecting licenses at least ten days
prior to the date of the public hearing, and such notice shall be furnished by
certified mail. At the time and place specified in the notice, the City Council
shall accord all persons attending an opportunity to be heard. Following the
public hearing, or at a subsequent meeting called for such purpose, the City
Council shall make its determination, taking into consideration all matters
brought to its attention regarding the qualifications of the applicant,
including, but not limited to, the business reputation of the applicant; the
financial responsibility of the applicant; the number, kind, type, age and
mileage of the vehicles to be operated by the applicant; the cash rates
proposed to be charged, whether the public is, at the time, adequately served;
the quality of ambulance service in the City; and other factors affecting the
public convenience and necessity or that the City Council deem relevant.
   (B)   Required findings. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City Council
shall not cause a license to be issued unless it finds that:
      (1)   The applicant meets the required qualifications and criteria;
      (2)   The public convenience and necessity require the proposed emergency
medical service for which the application has been submitted; and
      (3)   The proposed service would not adversely affect total emergency
medical service to the people of the City, the financial integrity of the
system and the current provider, nor the overall quality thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-8A-4) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8A-5 ISSUANCE.
   The ambulance business license, if approved by the City Council, shall be
issued by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-8A-5) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8A-6 EXPIRATION; RENEWAL AND LATE FEES.
   (A)   The ambulance business license is valid for one year and is non-
transferable. Operators may renew their licenses annually upon application as
set out in §
3-8A-2 and payment of the fee set out in §
2-6B-4.
   (B)   Operators shall be required to pay a late fee of $100 per month plus
the annual license fee to renew an expired ambulance business license. Expired
licenses may be renewed during the three months immediately following the
expiration of said license.
   (C)   Operators who have allowed their ambulance business license to expire
in excess of three months will not be allowed to renew their license, but shall
be allowed to apply for a new ambulance business license.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-A-6) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8A-7 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Ambulance service shall not:
   (A)   Fail or neglect to render the full service authorized by his license;
   (B)   Employ an operator that has been convicted of a felony or any criminal
offense involving moral turpitude;
   (C)   Obtain a license by an application in which any material fact was
omitted or stated falsely;
   (D)   Permit its motor vehicle(s) to be operated in violation of any law;
   (E)   Fail to comply with or willfully or knowingly violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or article;
   (F)   Give or allow a rebate, commission or any reduced rate discount not
provided for in the rates established and prescribed herein;
   (G)   Induce or seek to induce a change or destination to or from a hospital
or other place specified by the person hiring the ambulance;
   (H)   Employ any person who has been guilty of negligence in the operation
of its service;
   (I)   Recommend or give favor or advantage to any hospital or mortuary
operating in the City;
   (J)   Allow its insurance to be canceled, withdrawn or terminated; or
   (K)   Allow its vehicle or equipment to become damaged, deteriorated or
unclean to the extent that it is, in the judgment of the Police Department or
the City Council, unfit for public use.
(Prior Code, § 3-8A-7) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8A-8 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   An ambulance business license may be suspended or revoked for any violation
of this chapter or article. Proceedings for revocation or suspension of a
license shall be undertaken by the City Council in the same manner as
proceedings for issuance of a license. All complaints shall be referred to the
City Council, who shall cause an investigation to be made. Prior to any action
for suspension or revocation of a license, the City Clerk shall give ten days’
notice thereof by certified mail to the operator holding the license, that the
same will be considered at the next regular meeting of the City Council,
provided the date of such meeting shall not be less than ten days from the date
of the notice. The City Council shall thereupon undertake to consider the
complaint and either revoke, suspend or alter the license or dismiss the
complaint.
(Prior Code, § 3-8A-8) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
ARTICLE B: AMBULANCE VEHICLE PERMITS
§ 3-8B-1 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirement. No person shall use, drive or operate any ambulance
within the City without first obtaining an ambulance vehicle permit for such
ambulance issued pursuant to the provisions of this article.
   (B)   Exception. The provisions of subsection (A) above shall not apply to
an ambulance picking up a patient on sick calls only in the City, and
delivering the patient to a destination outside the City, nor shall it apply to
an ambulance picking up a patient outside the City and delivering the patient
to a destination within the City.
(Prior Code, § 3-8B-1) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8B-2 APPLICATION FORM; CONTENTS; FEE.
   Every application for an ambulance vehicle permit shall be in writing,
signed and sworn to by the applicant, and shall be filed with the City Clerk. A
separate application shall be filed for each ambulance which may be operated in
the City. The application shall be on a form provided by the City Clerk and
shall contain the following:
   (A)   Name and address of the ambulance service;
   (B)   Name and address of the operator;
   (C)   License number of the vehicle;
   (D)   Make, model and year of the vehicle;
   (E)   Motor number;
   (F)   Vehicle identification number;
   (G)   Serial number;
   (H)   State ambulance license number;
   (I)   Passenger capacity;
   (J)   Photo(s) of the vehicle;
   (K)   Copies of insurance policies, as required by §
3-8-5; and
   (L)   Ambulance vehicle permit fee as set out in §
2-6B-4.
(Prior Code, § 3-8B-2) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8B-3 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All mechanical, safety and special equipment shall be subject to
inspection at any time by authorized officials. No ambulance that has been
substantially damaged or altered shall be again placed in service until it has
been reinspected. All ambulances shall be subject to the same statutes and
ordinances, and rules and regulations relating to safety and operating
equipment applicable to other motor vehicles in the City.
   (B)   The Police Department may conduct vehicle inspections of all approved
ambulance services as often as in their judgment is warranted to maintain
adequate standards, and shall have the right to remove any ambulance from
operation for failure to maintain adequate mechanical standards of equipment,
or for failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter and this
article.
(Prior Code, § 3-8B-3) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8B-4 ISSUANCE.
   If the vehicle meets the minimum requirements of this chapter and article,
the City Clerk shall issue the permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-8B-4) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8B-5 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Ambulance vehicle permits are valid for one year and are
nontransferable. Operators may renew their ambulance vehicle permits annually
upon application as set out in §
3-8B-2 and payment of the fee set out in §
2-6B-4.
   (B)   Operators shall be required to pay a late fee of $10 per month, or any
part thereof, plus the annual permit fee to renew an expired ambulance vehicle
permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-8B-5) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8B-6 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   If any motor vehicle for which a permit has been issued shall become unsafe
for operation, or if its body or interior facilities shall be so damaged,
deteriorated or unclean as to render the vehicle unfit for public use, the
permit therefor may be suspended until the vehicle shall be made safe for
operation and its body shall be repaired and painted, and its interior
facilities shall be reconditioned or replaced, as required by this chapter, or
if, in the opinion of the Police Chief, suspension of the permit will not
result in the vehicle being made fit for public use, the Police Chief may
revoke the permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-8B-6) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
ARTICLE C: DRIVERS AND ATTENDANTS
§ 3-8C-1 LICENSE REQUIRED; ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   Requirement. No person shall drive, manage or control an ambulance
on any street in the City, or attend or render first aid to a passenger in such
ambulance without first obtaining a license issued pursuant to the provisions
of this article.
      (2)   Exception. The provisions of subsection (A)(1) above shall not
apply to an ambulance picking up a patient on sick calls only in the City, and
delivering the patient to a destination outside the City, nor shall it apply to
an ambulance picking up a patient outside the City and delivering the patient
to a destination within the City.
   (B)   Eligibility.
      (1)   Applicants for an ambulance driver license must, at a minimum:
         (a)   Be licensed as an emergency medical technician/basic (or higher
level of care) by the state;
         (b)   Be of good moral character and have a reputation as a law
abiding citizen;
         (c)   Have a valid state driver’s license appropriate for the vehicle
being driven;
         (d)   Have successfully completed an emergency vehicle operator course
or refresher course approved by the Oklahoma Department of Health within the
last two years;
         (e)   Be able to speak, read and write the English language;
         (f)   Be at least 18 years of age; and
         (g)   Have a satisfactory criminal record, including no convictions of
felonies, offenses involving moral turpitude, offenses involving violence or
offenses involving the use or possession of or trafficking in any illegal drug.
      (2)   Applicants for an attendant license must, at a minimum, be:
         (a)   Licensed as an emergency medical technician/intermediate (or
higher level of care) by the state;
         (b)   Of good moral character and have a reputation as a law abiding
citizen;
         (c)   Be able to speak, read and write the English language;
         (d)   Be at least 18 years of age; and
         (e)   Have a satisfactory criminal record, including no convictions of
felonies, offenses involving moral turpitude, offenses involving violence or
offenses involving the use or possession of or trafficking in any illegal drug.
(Prior Code, § 3-8C-1) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8C-2 APPLICATION FORM; CONTENTS; FEE.
   Every application for a license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by
the applicant, and shall be filed with the City Clerk. The application shall be
on a form provided by the City Clerk and shall contain the following:
   (A)   Name, sex, age and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Name and address of employing ambulance service;
   (C)   The names and addresses of at least three residents of the City as
references;
   (D)   Whether applicant has previously been licensed as an attendant or
driver, and if so, when and by what state or city, whether such license or
registration has been revoked or suspended, and if so, the date of and reason
for such revocation or suspension;
   (E)   Information regarding criminal offenses and traffic violations,
including violation, date of violation, final disposition and jurisdiction;
   (F)   Copy of state driver’s license;
   (G)   If applicant will be an attendant, proof that applicant is licensed by
the state as an emergency medical technician/intermediate (or higher level of
care);
   (H)   If applicant will be a driver, proof that applicant is licensed by the
state as an emergency medical technician/basic;
   (I)   If applicant will be a driver, proof that applicant has successfully
completed an emergency vehicle operator course or refresher course approved by
the Oklahoma Department of Health within the last two years; and
   (J)   Ambulance attendant or ambulance driver license fee as set out in §
2-6B-4.
(Prior Code, § 3-8C-2) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8C-3 INVESTIGATION; REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Investigation. Upon receipt of an application for a license, the City
Council shall cause an investigation to be made of the character and reputation
of the applicant as a law abiding citizen.
   (B)   Report required; fingerprinting. The character, reputation and
pertinent knowledge of each applicant for registration as a driver or attendant
shall be investigated and a report of such investigation containing any facts
relevant to the character and reputation of the applicant shall be placed on
file with the Police Department. The fingerprints and photographs of each
applicant shall be obtained and placed on file with the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-8C-3) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8C-4 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE AND IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (A)   Issuance; form of ID card.
      (1)   If the Police Chief finds the applicant for registration pursuant
to this article to be a fit and proper person to operate and drive an ambulance
according to the standards set forth in this article and in state law, or to
attend to patients according to the standards set forth in this article and in
state law, he shall so certify to the City Clerk, who shall issue to the
applicant either an ambulance attendant’s license or an ambulance driver’s
license and a driver’s identification card.
      (2)   The identification card shall be of a form prescribed by the
Director of Finance and shall contain a picture of the driver affixed in such a
manner that another picture cannot be substituted therefor without detection,
the driver’s name, license number, card number and the expiration date of the
license. The card shall have a space on the reverse side for entering
violations and fines. The color of the license shall be changed each license
year.
   (B)   Display card in vehicle. Every driver and attendant licensee under
this article shall display such card in his vehicle in such a manner as to be
readily visible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-8C-4) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8C-5 EXPIRATION; RENEWAL; LATE FEES.
   (A)   Ambulance attendant and ambulance driver licenses are valid for one
year and are nontransferable. Attendants and drivers may renew their licenses
annually upon application set out in §
3-8C-2 and payment of the fee set out in §
2-6B-4.
   (B)   Attendants and drivers shall be required to pay a late fee of $10 per
month, or any part thereof, plus the annual license fee to renew an expired
license.
(Prior Code, § 3-8C-5) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8C-6 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Attendants and drivers shall not:
   (A)   Refuse, without good cause, to promptly transport or attend to any
sick or injured person after responding to a call;
   (B)   Demand or receive compensation other than that established and
prescribed herein or fail to give a receipt for monies received;
   (C)   Continue in employment after conviction of a felony or any criminal
offense involving moral turpitude, any criminal offense involving violence, or
any criminal offense involving the possession of or trafficking in illegal
drugs;
   (D)   Obtain a license by an application in which any material fact was
omitted or stated falsely;
   (E)   Operate an ambulance in violation of any law;
   (F)   Fail to wear the appropriate uniform and to keep his person clean and
presentable when on duty;
   (G)   Use abusive or obscene language, or fail to conduct himself in a
professional manner;
   (H)   Release a patient until he is assured that some responsible person is
available to receive such patient;
   (I)   Use a siren or flashing red light unless on an emergency call;
   (J)   Disobey the lawful orders of a police officer;
   (K)   Smoke while on duty;
   (L)   Fail to comply with or willfully or knowingly violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or article;
   (M)   Give or allow a rebate, commission or any reduced rate discount not
provided for in the established rate;
   (N)   Induce or seek to induce a change or destination to or from a hospital
or other place specified by the person hiring the ambulance;
   (O)   Induce, or seek to induce, any person engaging an ambulance, to
patronize or retain the services of any hospital, convalescent home, doctor,
mortuary, cemetery, attorney, private accident investigator, nurse or any
person that could benefit financially as a result of the inducement;
   (P)   Act negligently in the operation of an ambulance or in the treatment
of a patient;
   (Q)   Recommend or give favor or advantage to any hospital or mortuary
operating in the City;
   (R)   Operate a vehicle or equipment which has become damaged, deteriorated
or unclean to the extent that it is, in the judgment of the Police Department,
the City Council or the medical director, unfit for public use;
   (S)   Allow another to use his license or identification card; or
   (T)   Make or attempt to make any change or erasure to a license or
identification card.
(Prior Code, § 3-8C-6) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 3-8C-7 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   An ambulance attendant or ambulance driver license may be suspended or
revoked for any violation of this chapter or article or upon a third traffic
violation while operating an ambulance. Proceedings for revocation or
suspension of a license shall be undertaken by the City Council. All complaints
shall be referred to the City Council, who shall cause an investigation to be
made. Prior to any action for suspension or revocation of a license, the City
Clerk shall give ten days’ notice thereof by certified mail to the license
holder (and to his employer), that the same will be considered at the next
regular meeting of the City Council; provided the date of such meeting shall
not be less than ten days from the date of the notice. The City Council shall
thereupon undertake to consider the complaint and either revoke, suspend or
alter the license or dismiss the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 3-8C-7) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 2-3-2015)
CHAPTER 9: RESERVED
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 9 has been repealed by Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-20-2022.
CHAPTER 10: SALVAGE YARDS AND IMPOUND LOTS
Section
   
3-10-1   Definitions
   
3-10-2   License required; fee; compliance
   
3-10-3   Layout plan
   
3-10-4   Fences and walls
   
3-10-5   General arrangement
   
3-10-6   Sales office
   
3-10-7   Receiving yard
   
3-10-8   Density of vehicles
   
3-10-9   Weeds and rank vegetation
   
3-10-10   Fire road
§ 3-10-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPOUND LOT.    Any yard, premises or tract of land upon which impounded
vehicles are stored.
   IMPOUNDED VEHICLES. Any vehicle which has been towed or otherwise moved to
an impound lot.
   NONOPERATING VEHICLE. Any vehicle the certificate of title to which has been
canceled, or which has been wholly or partially dismantled or is kept for the
purpose of dismantling, selling, wrecking or using parts therefrom, or which is
in such a condition that it will not operate and is not intended to be made
operational as a motor vehicle.
   SALVAGE. Any nonoperating motor vehicle or part thereof.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any yard, premises or tract of land in or upon which salvage
is stored or maintained, for business or commercial use or in connection
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-1) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-10-2 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate or maintain a salvage yard
or impound lot in the City without first obtaining a license therefor.
   (B)   Fee; compliance. The license shall be issued upon payment of a fee in
the amount provided in §
2-6B-16, and upon proper application being made showing compliance with this
chapter and the zoning ordinances of the City.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-2) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-10-3 LAYOUT PLAN.
   No person shall carry on, operate, own or maintain a salvage yard or impound
lot unless there has been filed with, and approved by, the Code Administration
Department a salvage yard or impound lot layout plan showing:
   (A)   The location and size of area involved;
   (B)   All improvements of surrounding property lying within 300 feet of the
proposed salvage yard or impound lot;
   (C)   The location and type of screening;
   (D)   The location of storing area and sales office;
   (E)   The location of curb cuts on property; and
   (F)   The general layout of access or fire roads within the salvage yard or
impound lot.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-3) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-10-4 FENCES AND WALLS.
   No person shall carry on, operate, own, maintain or conduct a salvage yard
or impound lot unless:
   (A)   Conditions and requirements. The establishment is carried on,
maintained or conducted entirely inside an enclosed building or buildings, or
upon premises with a fence that is at least six feet high, of solid wood,
masonry or other opaque screening on the following sides or portions thereof:
      (1)   Any side which adjoins or abuts a street or property zoned for
residential use. Property separated from the salvage yard or impound lot by
only a street, alley, easement or public way shall be considered as abutting or
adjoining said salvage yard or impound lot;
      (2)   Any side to which there is an unrestricted view from any street;
and
      (3)   The portion of a side not abutting or adjoining a street which is
within 30 feet of any street, or property line abutting the street.
   (B)   Maintenance. Fences and walls shall be maintained in a neat,
substantial, safe condition, without advertising thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-4) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-10-5 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT.
   No person shall carry on, operate, own, maintain or conduct a salvage yard
or impound lot unless the salvage or impounded vehicles located in or on said
premises shall be so arranged that reasonable inspection or access on all parts
of the premises can be had at any time by the proper fire, health, police and
building officials.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-5) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-10-6 SALES OFFICE.
   No person shall carry on, operate, own, maintain or conduct a salvage yard
or impound lot unless it is provided with a sales or office building on the
property to be used in conjunction with the operation.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-6) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-10-7 RECEIVING YARD.
   No person shall carry on, operate, own, maintain or conduct a salvage yard
or impound lot unless it is provided with a receiving area for automobiles
prior to storing, which shall be maintained in a minimum size of 1,800 square
feet per acre of salvage yard or impound lot.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-7) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-10-8 DENSITY OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall carry on, operate, own, maintain or conduct a salvage yard
or impound lot unless the density of motor vehicles on the premises shall not
exceed one vehicle for each 200 square feet of land or floor area; provided,
however, the owner of any salvage yard which has a greater density of vehicles
thereon on July 1, 1973, shall not be required to move the same, but shall not
be permitted, however, to place any more vehicles thereon until such time as it
can be done without exceeding said density of one vehicle per 200 square feet.
The owner of any impound lot which has a greater density of vehicles thereon on
April 1, 2015, shall not be required to move the same, but shall not be
permitted, however, to place any more vehicles thereon until such time as it
can be done without exceeding said density of one vehicle per 200 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 3-10-8) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-10-9 WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   High weeds and rank vegetation shall not be permitted on said premises.
(1994 Code, § 33-59) (Prior Code, § 3-10-9)
§ 3-10-10 FIRE ROAD.
   No person shall carry on, operate, own, maintain or conduct a salvage yard
unless a fire road is provided in a minimum width of 20 feet.
(1994 Code, § 33-60) (Prior Code, § 3-10-10)
CHAPTER 11: SOLICITING
Section
   
3-11-1   Definitions
   
3-11-2   Certificate of registration required; exemption
   
3-11-3   Application for certificate of registration
   
3-11-4   Denial or issuance of certificate of registration; revocation; fee
   
3-11-5   Occupant to determine status of solicitor as invitee
   
3-11-6   Posting of notice prohibiting solicitation
   
3-11-7   Compliance with notice required; duty to depart from premises
   
3-11-8   Display of certificate of registration
   
3-11-9   Certificate of registration transfer
   
3-11-10   Employer liability
   
3-11-11   Hours of soliciting
   
3-11-12   Right to appeal certificate of registration denial/revocation
   
3-11-13   Fraud; prohibited acts
   
3-11-14   Violations
§ 3-11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Every unit occupied for commercial or private business purposes by
any person contained within any type of building or structure.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as described in this chapter. The certificate must be in the
possession of the SOLICITOR and/or on his person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every living unit occupied for residential purposes by any one or
more persons contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING.
      (1)   Any one or more of the following activities:
         (a)   Seeking to obtain or sell orders for the purchase of goods,
wares, merchandise or services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
         (b)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for the application for
or purchase of insurance of any type, kind or character;
         (c)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines,
periodicals, newspapers or any other type of publication;
         (d)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or
any other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charity or
association, organization, corporation or project;
         (e)   Selling or offering to sell any goods, wares, merchandise or
services of any kind, character or description whatsoever, from any vehicle or
conveyance; and/or
         (f)   Selling or offering to sell any goods, wares, merchandise or
services of any kind, character or description whatsoever, from a temporary
indoor or outdoor location, occupied with or without permission from the owner,
or by occupying a location on a street right-of-way.
      (2)   SOLICITING shall not include:
         (a)   Participants in wholesale trade shows or conventions, trade
fairs or flea markets when the convention, trade fair or flea market is held
indoors;
         (b)   Participants in residential garage sales; or
         (c)   Any sale sponsored by a school or university which is located
within the corporate limits of the City.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-1) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 3-11-2 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Certificate of registration required. Every person, whether acting
individually or on behalf of a group or entity, desiring to engage in
“soliciting”, as defined in §
3-11-1, is required to make written application for and successfully obtain a
certificate of registration before engaging in any solicitous activity.
   (B)   Employment of solicitors. No person shall employ any person to engage
in solicitation without having obtained a certificate of registration.
   (C)   Exemption. Persons soliciting on behalf of public or private schools
or religious or eleemosynary institutions are exempt.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-2) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to license solicitors, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 107
§ 3-11-3 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An application for a certificate of registration shall be filed with
the Chief of Police (or designee). The applicant shall truthfully complete, in
full, the information requested on the application:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, the address of his present place of residence
and the length of residence at such address; also, the applicant’s business
address, if it is different than his residence address, and his Social Security
number;
      (2)   The address of the applicant’s place of residence during the past
three years, if other than his present address;
      (3)   The date of birth and age of the applicant;
      (4)   A physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   The name and address of the person, firm, corporation or
association whom the applicant is employed by or represents, and the length of
time of such employment or representation;
      (6)   Whether or not the person, firm, corporation or association whom
the applicant is employed by or represents has a Better Business Bureau rating
of less than or equal to a “C+”;
      (7)   The name and address of the applicant’s employer during the past
three years, if other than the present employer;
      (8)   A description, sufficient for identification of the subject matter,
of the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
      (9)   The period of time for which the certificate is being applied for;
      (10)   The date, or approximate date, of the last previous application
for a certificate under this section, if any;
      (11)   A statement as to whether a certificate of registration issued to
the applicant under this section has ever been revoked or denied;
      (12)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted of
the commission of a felony under the laws of any state or federal law of the
United States;
      (13)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted of
the commission of a misdemeanor under the laws of any state or federal law of
the United States;
      (14)   Description and license number or other means of identification of
automobiles or means of transportation to be used, if any;
      (15)   Verification of payment of sales tax to the Oklahoma Tax
Commission;
      (16)   Documents from the County Court Clerk’s Office that establishes
that the business has complied with state law, in particular, the requirements
of posting bond pursuant to 19 O.S. § 1608, if applicable; and
      (17)   Any such additional information as the Chief of Police (or
designee) may deem necessary to process the application.
   (B)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application shall be
under oath and verified by an authorized notary public.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall keep in his office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon, together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto, and all certificates of registration issued under
the provisions of this chapter, together with a record of the denial of any
such applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in
consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal
thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued.
   (D)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony, nor to any person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor (other than traffic offenses), unless such felony or
misdemeanor charges were dismissed upon the completion of a deferred sentence,
nor to any person who has been in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, nor to any person whose certificate of registration issued under this
chapter has previously been revoked.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-3) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-4 DENIAL OR ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION; REVOCATION; FEE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police (or designee), after consideration of the
application and all other relative information, shall deny the application if
the applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate, and if
the issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant would not be in
accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Endorsement shall be made
by the Chief of Police upon the application or upon the denial of the
application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, a certificate
of registration shall be issued.
   (B)   Any certificate of registration shall be revoked by the Chief of
Police (or designee) if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or if he or she has made a
false material statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified
for the issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this
chapter. Immediately upon such revocation, written notice shall be given by the
Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate, in person or by certified
U.S. mail addressed to such holder’s residence address as set forth in the
application.
   (C)   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and void.
   (D)   The certificate of registration shall state the effective date and
expiration date, and the applicant, at the time of the issuance of said
certificate, shall pay the fee as provided for in §
2-6B-9.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-4) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-5 OCCUPANT TO DETERMINE STATUS OF SOLICITOR AS INVITEE.
   (A)   The occupant or occupants of the residences and businesses in this
municipality shall make the determination as to whether solicitors shall be, or
shall not be, invited to their respective residences or businesses.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to go upon any premises and ring the
doorbell upon or near any door, or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant and engaging in “soliciting”
as defined in §
3-11-1, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-5) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-6 POSTING OF NOTICE PROHIBITING SOLICITATION.
   (A)   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door of the business or
residence, indicating such determination by the occupant, as follows: “No
Solicitors”. The letters shall be at least one-third of an inch in height. Any
card in substantial compliance with the requirements listed herein shall
suffice to satisfy this section.
   (B)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-6) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-7 COMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE REQUIRED; DUTY TO DEPART FROM PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon approaching any business
or residence, to be governed by the statement contained on the notice described
in §
3-11-6. If a notice is posted, a solicitor shall immediately and peacefully
depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained an audience with any occupant of any
business or residence, even if previously invited in, shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-7) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-8 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Solicitors shall exhibit their certificate of registration immediately upon
the request of any person.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-8) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-9 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION TRANSFER.
   No certificate of registration issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-9) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-10 EMPLOYER LIABILITY.
   For purposes of the suspension or revocation of a solicitor’s certificate of
registration, it shall be sufficient to show that any solicitor or seller in
the employ of such certificate holder has violated any provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-10) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-11 HOURS OF SOLICITING.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether registered under this chapter or not,
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a
residence, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other
manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence,
for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant and engaging in
“soliciting” as defined in §
3-11-1, prior to 11:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday, or
at any time on a Sunday or national holiday. Such actions shall constitute a
trespass and a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-11) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-12 RIGHT TO APPEAL CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION DENIAL/REVOCATION.
   Any person denied a certificate of registration, or a person who has
received notice of revocation, may appeal to the City Council by filing notice
thereof with the City Clerk within five days of the denial. The City Council
shall render a decision at a regular meeting held within 30 days of receipt of
appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-12) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-13 FRAUD; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any solicitor:
   (A)   To harass, threaten, coerce or otherwise unreasonably apply duress to
any citizen or otherwise breach the peace while attempting to perform the
services of a solicitor;
   (B)   To fail to provide any goods or services which have been paid for, in
full or in part; and
   (C)   To defraud, trick, cheat or otherwise mislead any person into
subscribing for, or purchasing, any goods or service when the solicitor knows
or should know that the goods or service will not be provided or delivered.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-13) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 3-11-14 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The violation of any of these sections or subsections shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 plus costs.
   (B)   Each violation, whether or not committed on the same calendar day,
shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-14) (Ord. 2013-36, passed 8-6-2013)
CHAPTER 12: PAWNBROKERS/SECONDHAND DEALERS AND
SCRAP METAL DEALERS
Section
   
3-12-1   Definitions
   
3-12-2   Regulatory fee required
   
3-12-3   Electronic records and reports
   
3-12-4   Examination, investigations and access to records
   
3-12-5   Disposition of pledged goods
   
3-12-6   Prohibited practices
   
3-12-7   Penalties
Statutory reference:
   Pawnshop Act, see 59 O.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
§ 3-12-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The administrator of consumer affairs defined in the Uniform
Consumer Credit Code, see 14A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
   PAWN TRANSACTION. The act of lending money on the security of pledged goods
or the act of purchasing tangible personal property on condition that it may be
redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period
of time.
   PAWNBROKER. A person engaged in the business of making pawn transactions.
   PLEDGED GOODS. Tangible personal property, securities of printed evidences
of indebtedness, which property is deposited with or otherwise delivered into
the possession of a pawnbroker in the course of his business in connection with
a pawn transaction.
   SCRAP METAL DEALERS. A person engaged in the business of buying or selling
old (“scrap”) metals.
   SECONDHAND DEALERS. Any person, other than “pawnbrokers” as defined herein,
who shall engage in the occupation or business of dealing in any secondhand or
previously used goods, wares or merchandise from individuals other than other
licensed dealers, garage sale licensees or from estate sales.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-1) (Ord. 2013-63, passed 12-17-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. § 1502
§ 3-12-2 REGULATORY FEE REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry on the business of pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or
scrap metal dealer without first having paid an annual regulatory fee provided
for in §
2-6B-10.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-2) (Ord. 2013-63, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 3-12-3 ELECTRONIC RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Requirement. Beginning January 1, 2014, all pawnbrokers, secondhand
dealers and scrap metal dealers shall subscribe to LeadsOnline or the City’s
then current electronic reporting system and maintain said subscription
throughout the term of the business license. Every business governed by this
chapter shall enter and upload all information from its books and records
regarding contracts for purchase, pledges and purchase transactions to
LeadsOnline on a daily basis. Every data field shall be utilized. The online
subscription service is currently provided at no cost to the business owner. In
the event that the reporting system used by the City malfunctions or is
otherwise not operational, the business shall keep a written record of any and
all transactions made during the time the service is not operational, and shall
input those records into the reporting system within 24 hours after the service
becomes operational. Additionally, should the service remain nonoperational for
more than 24 hours, written reports shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police
on a daily basis.
   (B)   Holding items bought. Items bought, except on invoice from a
manufacturer or wholesaler with an established place of business, shall be held
for ten days before being disposed of or sold.
   (C)   Declaration of ownership from seller. The business shall obtain a
written declaration of ownership from the seller or pledgor on all buy and/or
pawn transactions, except refinance pawn transactions or merchandise bought
from a manufacturer wholesaler with an established place of business. The
seller or pledgor shall be required to state how long he has owned the property
described in the transaction. The declaration of ownership shall appear on the
bill of sale or pawn ticket, to be completed by the seller or the pledgor at
the time of the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-3) (Ord. 2013-63, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 3-12-4 EXAMINATION, INVESTIGATIONS AND ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   (A)   Police examination or inspection; information confidential.
      (1)   The books, accounts, papers, correspondence, records and property
taken, purchased or received shall be open for inspection at any reasonable
time to the Chief of Police, or his written designee, without any need of
judicial writ or other process. In the course of an examination, any authorized
peace officer shall have free access to the office, place of business, files,
safes and vaults of the pawnbroker, and shall have the right to make copies of
any books, accounts, papers, correspondence and records insofar as they pertain
to a business regulated by this chapter.
      (2)   The information obtained in the course of any examination or
inspection shall be confidential, except in civil or administrative proceedings
conducted by the administrator, or criminal proceedings instituted by the state
or unless required to be released under state law.
   (B)   Presumption.
      (1)   Acting as pawnbroker. For the purpose of this chapter, any person
who advertises for, solicits or holds himself out as willing to make pawn
transactions shall be presumed to be a pawnbroker.
      (2)   Acting as a secondhand dealer. For the purpose of this chapter, any
person who advertises for, solicits or holds himself out as willing to make
secondhand transactions shall be presumed to be a secondhand dealer.
      (3)   Acting as a scrap metal dealer. For the purpose of this chapter,
any person who advertises for, solicits or holds himself out as willing to make
scrap metal transactions shall be presumed to be a scrap metal dealer.
   (C)   Maintaining records. Each business governed by this chapter shall
preserve or make available the electronic records required by this chapter for
each of its transactions for at least four years from the date of the
transaction, or two years from the date of the final entry thereon, whichever
is later.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-4) (Ord. 2013-63, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 3-12-5 DISPOSITION OF PLEDGED GOODS.
   Pledged goods not redeemed by the customer on or before the date fixed as
the maturity date for the transaction in the pawn agreement or disclosure
statement delivered shall be held by the pawnbroker for at least 30 days
following such date, and may be redeemed by the customer within such period.
(1994 Code, § 33-19) (Prior Code, § 3-12-5)
§ 3-12-6 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   A business governed under this chapter shall not:
   (A)   Accept a pledge or purchase property from a person, male or female,
under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   Accept any waiver, in writing or otherwise, of any right or protection
accorded a customer under this chapter;
   (C)   Fail to exercise reasonable care to protect pledged goods from loss or
damage;
   (D)   Fail to return pledged goods to a customer upon payment of the full
amount due the pawnbroker on the pawn transaction;
   (E)   Enter any pawn transaction which has a maturity date more than one
month after the date of the transaction;
   (F)   Accept collateral or buy merchandise from a person unable to supply
verification of identity by photo identification by either a state-issued
identification card, driver’s license or federal government issued
identification card or by readable fingerprint of right or left index finger on
the back of the pawn or buy transaction copy to be retained for the
pawnbroker’s record; and/or
   (G)   It is unlawful for any person or business governed by this chapter to
purchase, take or receive on deposit, or to accept possession of any article or
property from any person under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-6) (Ord. 2013-63, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 3-12-7 PENALTIES.
   Any violation of any section or subsection of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of up to $500 plus fees and costs.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-7) (Ord. 2013-63, passed 12-17-2013)
CHAPTER 13: RESERVED
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   This chapter has been repealed by Ord. 2013-63, passed 12-17-2013. See
Chapter 12 of this title.
 
CHAPTER 14: GARAGE AND HOME SALES
Section
   
3-14-1   Definition
   
3-14-2   Permit required; exception; fee; compliance
   
3-14-3   Sales regulations
§ 3-14-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE AND HOME SALE. A sale of five or more items of used clothing,
furniture, home appliances and merchandise generally used in a home, which has
been used by the person offering the same for sale.
(1994 Code, § 33-36) (Prior Code, § 3-14-1)
§ 3-14-2 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION; FEE; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person, other than a public or private school, church or any
eleemosynary institution, shall hold a garage and home sale without first
obtaining a permit from the code administration department, which shall issue
such permit upon application and the payment of the fee provided in §
2-6B-11 of this code. The permit shall designate the days and places of sale,
and shall be displayed at the time and place of the sale.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable by a maximum fine of $100,
plus costs.
(1994 Code, § 33-37) (Prior Code, § 3-14-2)
§ 3-14-3 SALES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No merchandise shall be sold which belongs to anyone engaged in the
business of selling such merchandise.
   (B)   No item shall be displayed outside of a building on the premises
unless said building is also used to display such items.
   (C)   No more than two sales shall be had by the same occupant within one
calendar year at the same location.
   (D)   Sales shall not exceed three days in length, and no merchandise shall
be sold between 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (E)   Signs which are used for advertising a garage sale are temporary
signs, and no sign shall be exhibited more than two days prior to the sale and
must be removed the last day of the sale. Such signs shall be no larger than
two square feet in surface area and shall be limited in number to two signs on
the property on which the garage sale is to be conducted, and two signs off the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-14-3) (Ord. 2003-15, passed 9-16-2003)
CHAPTER 15: CHILDCARE CENTERS AND NURSING HOMES
Section
   
3-15-1   Definitions
   
3-15-2   State and city licenses required
   
3-15-3   Application for city license
   
3-15-4   License fee
   
3-15-5   Rules and regulations; inspections
   
3-15-6   Revocation of license
Statutory reference:
   State regulation of childcare establishments, see 10 O.S. §§ 401 et seq.
   State regulation of rest homes, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-1900.1 et seq.
§ 3-15-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILDCARE CENTER. Shall have the meaning assigned to it by the city zoning
ordinance, §
11-1-7 .
   CONVALESCENT, REST OR NURSING HOME. Shall have the meaning assigned to it by
the city zoning ordinance. See definition of “medical facilities” in §
11-1-7 .
(1994 Code, § 14-46) (Prior Code, § 3-15-1)
§ 3-15-2 STATE AND CITY LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   State license. No childcare center may be operated or licensed in the
City without having a license issued by the Oklahoma Department of Health, and
operating such under their rules and regulations. This section does not apply
to any center currently operating at the time this code is approved.
   (B)   City license. No person shall operate or maintain a childcare center
or convalescent, rest or nursing home without first having obtained a license
from the Director of Finance.
(1994 Code, §§ 14-61 and 14-61.1) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 3-15-2)
§ 3-15-3 APPLICATION FOR CITY LICENSE.
   An application for a license required by the provisions of this chapter
shall be made to the Code Administration Department on forms prescribed by such
Department, and the license shall be issued upon payment of the required fees
and on the applicant furnishing satisfactory evidence to the Health Officer and
Fire Marshal that the applicant is a reputable and responsible person, of sound
physical and mental health, and that the facilities are suitable from a health
and sanitation standpoint for the home or establishment desired to be licensed.
(1994 Code, § 14-62) (Prior Code, § 3-15-3)
§ 3-15-4 LICENSE FEE.
   A person making application for a license required by the provisions of this
chapter shall pay the fee provided for in §
2-6B-7 to the Director of Finance.
(1994 Code, § 14-63) (Prior Code, § 3-15-4)
§ 3-15-5 RULES AND REGULATIONS; INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Officer is authorized and directed to establish and promulgate
such rules and regulations as may be necessary in connection with licensing and
operating of rest homes, nursing homes, related institutions and childcare
establishments. He shall make inspections each year to determine whether or not
the licensed premises are operated and maintained in a proper and sanitary
manner.
(1994 Code, § 14-47) (Prior Code, § 3-15-5)
§ 3-15-6 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Violation; authority to revoke license. The Health Officer shall have
the authority to revoke any license issued hereunder for failure to comply with
the terms of this chapter or for the violation by the licensee of any laws of
the state or ordinances of the City.
   (B)   Notice; right to appeal. Such revocation shall be by written notice
and the licensee shall be entitled to appeal such revocation to the City
Council by filing with the City Clerk a notice of such appeal within ten days
of notification of the revocation of such license; in which event the
revocation shall be stayed until such appeal is heard.
(1994 Code, § 14-64) (Prior Code, § 3-15-6)
CHAPTER 16: ARBORISTS
Section
   
3-16-1   Definition
   
3-16-2   License required; fee; conditions
   
3-16-3   Bond or insurance coverage
   
3-16-4   Removal of debris; filling excavations
§ 3-16-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORIST. Any person who trims, prunes, sprays or cuts trees for hire or
otherwise serves as a specialist in the care and maintenance of individual
trees. The term does not include anyone in the nursery business or a person
employed or hired as a gardener who does the above described things in relation
to trees as an incident to his employment as a gardener.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-1) (Ord. 2004-19, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 3-16-2 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Annual license; fee. No person shall engage in business as an arborist
without first having an annual license. The license shall be issued by the
Director of Finance upon the payment of an annual fee in the amount provided in
§
2-6B-15, and upon the filing of a bond as required in this chapter.
   (B)   City examination. No arborist’s license shall be issued unless the
applicant obtains a grade of at least seventy-five percent (75%) upon an
examination administered by the Code Department. Such examination shall
determine whether such person is qualified by knowledge and experience to
engage in business as an arborist; provided, however, no such examination shall
be required to obtain a renewal license.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-2) (Ord. 2004-19, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 3-16-3 BOND OR INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   (A)   Bond. Each arborist shall execute a bond to the City in the sum of
$50,000 conditioned upon his complying with the terms of this chapter and his
holding the City and any person therein harmless from any and all damages
occasioned by the operation of his business as an arborist.
   (B)   Insurance in lieu of bond. In lieu of such bond, the arborist may file
with the City insurance verification for public liability and property damage
insurance in an amount of not less than $100,000 for bodily injury or death of
one person in any one accident; in an amount of not less than $250,000 for
personal injury or death to more than one person in any one accident; and in an
amount not less than $50,000 for property damage from all work arising or
performed under an arborist’s license.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-3) (Ord. 2004-19, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 3-16-4 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS; FILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   An arborist shall remove from the premises all limbs, trees and debris cut
or caused by him, and he shall fill all excavations made by him and level the
ground in public places.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-4) (Ord. 2004-19, passed 5-18-2004)
CHAPTER 17: ROOFING CONTRACTORS
Section
   
3-17-1   Adoption of state law; compliance
   
3-17-2   Registration required
   
3-17-3   Application; fee
   
3-17-4   Violation
§ 3-17-1 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Adoption of state law. All applicable statutes, rules and regulations
governing roofing contractors, as those statutes, rules and regulations may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set
out herein.
   (B)   Federal, state and local law. Licensee shall comply with all federal,
state and local laws, rules and regulations governing roofing contractors.
   (C)   Provisions. The provisions of this chapter are supplementary to all
other ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-1) (Ord. 2015-28, passed 9-1-2015)
§ 3-17-2 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of, nor act in the capacity of, a
roofing contractor within the City without first having registered with the
City.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-2) (Ord. 2015-28, passed 9-1-2015)
§ 3-17-3 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Every application for a roofing contractor shall be on a form
provided by the City Clerk and shall contain the following:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, date of birth,
telephone number and address of the applicant; if a partnership, the business
name of the partnership and the name, date of birth, telephone number and
address of each partner; if a corporation, the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of its principal officers and the names, telephone numbers and
addresses of all directors thereof; and
         (b)   The names under which the applicant has, does and proposes to do
business as a roofing contractor.
      (2)   Applicants must also provide:
         (a)   Proof that the applicant is licensed as a roofing contractor by
the state;
         (b)   If business is a partnership or corporation, proof that the
applicant is registered with the Oklahoma Secretary of State; and
         (c)   Copy of Oklahoma Sales Tax permit.
   (B)   Fee. Applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as set
out in §
2-6F-13. This fee shall be waived through June 30, 2016.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-3) (Ord. 2015-28, passed 9-1-2015)
§ 3-17-4 VIOLATION.
   The violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500
plus costs and fees. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-4) (Ord. 2015-28, passed 9-1-2015)
TITLE 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
   Chapter
      
1.    GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
      
2.    RAT CONTROL OF BUSINESS BUILDINGS
      
3.    LITTER; HANDBILLS
      
4.    NUISANCES
      
5.    WEEDS AND NOXIOUS MATTER
      
6.    INOPERABLE VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
Section
   
4-1-1   Code Enforcement Division
   
4-1-2   Health Officer and Health Department; enforcement
   
4-1-3   Contagious diseases
   
4-1-4   Pollution of water
§ 4-1-1 CODE ENFORCEMENT DIVISION.
   The Code Enforcement Division is hereby created and the Code Official, who
serves as the Building Official and Code Administrator for the City, and all of
his assistants and inspectors shall be authorized to enforce the provisions of
this code which relate to the inspection of buildings, properties and such
other areas that this code grants it authority. The Code Official and all of
his assistants and inspectors shall have the authority to issue citations to
persons who violate such applicable provisions of this code.
(1994 Code § 2-8) (Prior Code § 1-8-1)
§ 4-1-2 HEALTH OFFICER AND HEALTH DEPARTMENT; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   County Health Officer, Department. The Medical Director of the County
Health Department is hereby designated as Health Officer of the City and the
County Health Department is hereby designated as the Health Department for the
City.
   (B)   Enforcement of health ordinances. The County Health Department and the
County Medical Director shall have authority to enforce the ordinances relating
to public health.
(1994 Code, §§ 14-1, 14-2) (Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to delegate to County Department of Health and the County
Director authority to enforce city health ordinances, see 63 O.S. § 1-209
§ 4-1-3 CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   (A)   Report of physicians. Every practicing physician in the City shall
make a report to the Health Officer of all cases of cholera, smallpox,
diphtheria, scarlet fever and plague as soon as discovered by him or coming to
his knowledge.
   (B)   Quarantine.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall issue an order of quarantine to any person
afflicted with any of the diseases mentioned in subsection (A) above or any
other disease which, in his opinion, shall be deemed necessary and advisable in
order to prevent the spread of such disease. Such order shall be served by a
police officer or other duly authorized representative of the City.
      (2)   Whenever a person is quarantined, a notice of quarantine shall be
conspicuously posted on the front door or main entrance of the premises in
which such person is located. The person afflicted with such disease and/or one
exposed to such disease shall not leave such premises, except upon order of the
Health Officer, until the lifting of such quarantine.
(1994 Code, §§ 14-3 and 14-4) (Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 4-1-4 POLLUTION OF WATER.
   No person shall place in or about the reservoirs of the City any material or
substance that will in any manner pollute the water in said reservoirs, or
place on the ground belonging to the water system, or adjacent thereto,
anything that will in any manner affect the water in the reservoirs.
(1994 Code, § 14-5) (Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
CHAPTER 2: RAT CONTROL OF BUSINESS BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-2-1   Definitions
   
4-2-2   Maintaining buildings in ratproof condition
   
4-2-3   Inspections
   
4-2-4   Ratproofing on notice from city
   
4-2-5   New or remodeled buildings
   
4-2-6   Replacement of floors
   
4-2-7   Storage of foodstuff
   
4-2-8   Removal of ratproofing prohibited
   
4-2-9   Dead animals, garbage
   
4-2-10   Storage of lumber and containers
§ 4-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure that is adapted for occupancy for
transaction of business; rendering of professional service; amusement; the
display, sale or storage of goods, wares or merchandise; or for the performance
of work or labor, including hotels, apartment buildings, tenement houses,
rooming houses, office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets,
restaurants, grain elevators, abattoirs, warehouses, workshops, factories and
all outhouses, sheds, barns and other structures on premises used for business
purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The person that uses or occupies any business building or part
thereof, whether the actual owner or tenant. In the case of vacant business
buildings or vacant portions thereof, the owner, agent or custodian shall have
the responsibility as OCCUPANT.
   OWNER. The actual owner, agent or custodian of the business building,
whether individual, partnership or corporation. The lessee shall be construed
as the OWNER for the purpose of this chapter if business building agreements
hold the lessee responsible for maintenance and repairs.
   RAT ERADICATION. The elimination or extermination of rats within buildings
by any or all of the accepted measures, such as poisoning, fumigation,
trapping, clubbing and the like.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition which provides shelter or protection for rats.
   RATPROOFING. A form of construction to prevent the ingress of rats into
business buildings. RATPROOFING consists essentially of treatment with
materials, impervious to rat gnawing, all actual or potential openings in
exterior walls, ground or first floors, basements, roofs and foundations that
may be reached by rats.
(1994 Code, § 14-21) (Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 4-2-2 MAINTAINING BUILDINGS IN RATPROOF CONDITION.
   (A)   Required. All business buildings shall be ratproofed, freed of rats
and maintained in a ratproof and rat free condition.
   (B)   Maintenance. The owners of all ratproofed business buildings shall
maintain the premises in a ratproof condition and shall repair all breaks or
leaks that may occur in the ratproofing.
(1994 Code, §§ 14-22 and 14-23) (Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 4-2-3 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Subject to constitutional limitations, the Health Department is
empowered to make unannounced inspections of the interior and exterior of
business buildings to determine full compliance with this chapter, and shall
make periodic inspections at intervals of not more than 45 days of all
ratproofed buildings.
   (B)   When any evidence is found indicating the presence of rats or openings
through which rats may enter, said Health Department shall serve the owners or
occupants with notices or orders to abate the conditions found.
(1994 Code, § 14-24) (Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 4-2-4 RATPROOFING ON NOTICE FROM CITY.
   Whenever the Health Officer notifies the occupant of a business building in
writing that there is evidence of rat infestation, the occupant shall
immediately institute rat eradication measures and shall continue such measures
in a satisfactory manner until the premises is declared by the Health Officer
to be free of rat infestation. Said measures shall be undertaken within five
days after receipt of notice or within the time to which a written extension
may have been granted by the Health Officer.
(1994 Code, § 14-29) (Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
§ 4-2-5 NEW OR REMODELED BUILDINGS.
   No person shall construct, repair or remodel any building, dwelling, stable
or market, or other structure whatsoever, unless such construction, repair,
remodeling or installation shall render the building or other structure
ratproof.
(1994 Code, § 14-25) (Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 4-2-6 REPLACEMENT OF FLOORS.
   If conditions inside or under business buildings provide harborage for rats,
the Health Officer may require the owner to eliminate such harborage by the
installation of suitable concrete floors in basements or replacement of wooden
first or ground floors with concrete or otherwise abate such conditions, to
facilitate rat eradication.
(1994 Code, § 14-26) (Prior Code, § 4-2-6)
§ 4-2-7 STORAGE OF FOODSTUFF.
   (A)   Buildings where foodstuffs are stored. No person shall occupy any
business building wherein foodstuffs are to be stored, kept, handled, sold,
held or offered for sale unless he complies with the provisions of this
chapter; and no license or permit to conduct such business will be issued where
the building is not in compliance.
   (B)   Animal feed. All food and feed for animals or poultry shall be stored
in rat free and ratproof containers, compartments, rooms or buildings.
(1994 Code, §§ 14-27, 14-28) (Prior Code, § 4-2-7)
§ 4-2-8 REMOVAL OF RATPROOFING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall remove and fail to restore in like condition the ratproofing
from any business building for any purpose, or to make any new openings that
are not closed or sealed against the entrance of rats.
(1994 Code, § 14-30) (Prior Code, § 4-2-8)
§ 4-2-9 DEAD ANIMALS, GARBAGE.
   (A)   Disposition of dead animals, garbage. All garbage or refuse consisting
of waste animal or vegetable matter upon which rats may feed, and all small
dead animals, shall be placed and stored until collected in covered containers
of a type prescribed by ordinance. No person shall dump or place on any
premises any dead animals or any waste vegetable or animal matter of any kind.
   (B)   Garbage accumulation prohibited. No person shall place, leave, dump or
permit to accumulate any garbage, rubbish or trash in any building or on any
premises, or on any open lot or alley so that it shall or may afford food or
harborage for rats.
(1994 Code, §§ 14-31 and 14-32) (Prior Code, § 4-2-9)
§ 4-2-10 STORAGE OF LUMBER AND CONTAINERS.
   No person shall accumulate or permit to accumulate on any premises or alley
any lumber, boxes, barrels, bottles, cans, containers or similar materials
unless placed on open racks that are elevated not less than 18 inches above the
ground and evenly piled or stacked.
(1994 Code, § 14-33) (Prior Code, § 4-2-10)
CHAPTER 3: LITTER; HANDBILLS
Section
   
4-3-1   Definitions
   
4-3-2   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
4-3-3   Litter on occupied private property
   
4-3-4   Litter in public places; vacant private lots
   
4-3-5   Placement of litter in receptacles
   
4-3-6   Sweeping litter into street prohibited
   
4-3-7   Litter from vehicles
   
4-3-8   Litter from aircraft
   
4-3-9   Property on city rights-of-way considered trash
   
4-3-10   Handbills
§ 4-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required by ordinance.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, produce, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible, animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. “Garbage”, “refuse” and “rubbish” as defined herein and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the post office department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and,
in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the
public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Printed or written matter, any sample, or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a “commercial handbill”
or “newspaper”.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, tree trimmings if branches do not exceed four
inches in diameter, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   TRASH. Shall extend to the widest sense of that term, and includes, but
without limitation upon any other meaning, refuse, litter, ashes, leaves,
debris, paper, combustible materials, offal, rubbish, waste and useless or
uncared for matter of all kinds, whether solid or liquid in form.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(1994 Code, § 17-1) (Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 4-3-2 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
   (B)   The violations of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$100 plus costs, unless the person charged has been previously convicted once
under this section or any of the following sections: §§
4-4-2,
4-5-8,
4-6-8,
7-7-2,
8-4-7 and
9-9-2, in the last five years, then a violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 2018-25, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 4-3-3 LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property,
whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person in control
of private property may maintain authorized private receptacles for collection
in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited
by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private
property.
(1994 Code, § 17-13) (Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 4-3-4 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES; VACANT PRIVATE LOTS.
   (A)   Public property. No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon
any street, sidewalk or other public place except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles for collection, or in official city landfills.
   (B)   Vacant lots. No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or
vacant private property, whether owned by such person or not.
(1994 Code, §§ 17-2 and 17-15) (Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 4-3-5 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent such litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public
place or upon private property.
(1994 Code, § 17-3) (Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 4-3-6 SWEEPING LITTER INTO STREET PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front
of their premises free of litter.
(1994 Code, § 17-4) (Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
§ 4-3-7 LITTER FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   Preventing load from leaking; exceptions. No person shall operate any
vehicle on any roadway unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of its load from dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise
escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing
traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in
cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   Securely covering loads. No person shall operate any vehicle with any
load on any roadway unless said load and any covering thereon is securely
fastened so as to prevent said covering or load from becoming loose, detached
or in any manner a hazard to other users of the roadway. Any vehicle loaded
with sand, cinders or other loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping
by reason of wind shall have such load covered or dampened so as to prevent the
blowing or escaping of said load from the vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 17-5) (Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
§ 4-3-8 LITTER FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit any litter,
handbill or any other object.
(1994 Code, § 17-12) (Prior Code, § 4-3-8)
§ 4-3-9 PROPERTY ON CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY CONSIDERED TRASH.
   (A)   Time limit for pick up. Property found on city rights-of-way in front
of residential properties will be subject to being picked up by the City after
72 hours.
   (B)   Disposal upon removal; pick up fee. The property will be considered
trash by the City and will be disposed of upon removal. When the owner of the
trash can be reasonably determined, the owner will be charged a pick up fee
pursuant to §
2-6E-8(E).
(Prior Code, § 4-3-9) (Ord. 2001-30, passed 11-6-2001)
§ 4-3-10 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public places.
      (1)   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any
sidewalk, street or other public place.
      (2)   No person shall distribute or give any handbill in any public place
to any person not willing to accept it.
   (B)   Vehicles. No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any
vehicle; provided, however, a person may in a public place hand out or
distribute without charge a handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it.
   (C)   Posting of bills on public or private property. No person shall post
any bills, dodgers, advertisements or notices of any kind upon any telephone,
telegraph or electric light pole, hydrant, fence, house or any public property.
   (D)   Vacant private premises. No person shall throw or deposit any handbill
in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant, except in a manner which will prevent them from being
scattered or blown about by the wind.
   (E)   Posted private premises. No person shall throw, deposit or distribute
any handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to
do so, or if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position near
the entrance thereof a sign bearing the words: “No Trespassing”, “No Peddlers
or Agents”, “No Advertisements” or any similar notice, indicating in any manner
that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or have their
right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon such
premises.
   (F)   Unpasted private premises.
      (1)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any handbill in or
upon private premises which are inhabited, except by:
         (a)   Handing or transmitting it directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or upon such private premises; and/or
         (b)   In case of inhabited private premises which are not posted,
unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so, by placing or
depositing such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises in such a
manner, as to secure or prevent it from being blown or drifted about such
premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, except that mailboxes
shall not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal laws or regulations.
      (2)   The provisions of subsection (F)(1) above shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States, or to newspapers, except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent
their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place or upon other private property.
(1994 Code, §§ 17-6, 17-7, 17-8, 17-9, 17-10 and 17-11) (Prior Code, § 4-3-10)
CHAPTER 4: NUISANCES
Section
   
4-4-1   Definition
   
4-4-2   Unlawful to maintain nuisance
   
4-4-3   Abatement
   
4-4-4   Payment for work done by City
   
4-4-5   Collection of costs; lien
Statutory reference:
   Authority to define, prevent, remove and abate nuisances, see 11 O.S. § 22-
121
§ 4-4-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   The doing of an act unlawfully or omitting to perform a duty, which
act or omission:
         (a)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health and
safety of occupants or others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any square, street, highway or public parking, stormwater drainage,
stormwater area;
         (d)   In any way renders any person insecure in life, or in the use of
property;
         (e)   Involves the maintenance of any building or structure within the
city limits which by reason of age, dilapidation or decay is unsafe for
occupancy; or constitutes a haven or refuge for vermin and rodents; or presents
a fire hazard and endangers the security of other property;
         (f)   Permits the accumulation of rank vegetation, weeds, grass or
other noxious matter or putrid substances; or in maintaining any trash, piles
of rubbish, manure or other refuse which is dangerous to health or which in any
manner constitutes a fire hazard;
         (g)   Involves the blowing of construction or building materials or
other debris which in any manner constitutes a hazard or annoyance to persons
or property;
         (h)   Involves an open sewer; and/or
         (i)   Creates a blight. A BLIGHTED PREMISES is one in which any of the
following conditions exist:
            1.   Conditions posing a serious threat to the safety, health and/
or general welfare of the community, as determined by the Code Official, Zoning
Enforcement Officer or other official designated by the City;
            2.   Attracts illegal activity, as documented by police reports;
            3.   Is a fire hazard, as determined by the Fire Marshal or Deputy
Fire Marshal or documented by the Fire Department; and/or
            4.   Is not being maintained or is becoming dilapidated as
evidenced by existence of one or more of the following conditions.
               a.   The property has missing, broken or boarded up windows or
doors.
               b.   The property has collapsing or missing walls, roof or
floor.
               c.   The property has a structurally faulty foundation.
               d.   The property has seriously damaged or missing siding.
               e.   The property has unrepaired fire or water damage.
               f.   The property has rodent harborage and/or infestation.
               g.   The property has any persistent TRASH which is defined as:
refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible material, rubbish,
offal, waste or any matter of any kind which is uncared for, discarded or
abandoned, or any other thing that can be considered garbage.
               h.   The property has an abandoned motor vehicle situated on the
premises.
               i.   The property has inoperative or unregistered motor
vehicles, including recreational vehicles, which have no tires, flat tires or
are in disassembled status.
               j.   The property has dead, decayed, diseased or damaged trees
constituting a hazard or danger to persons or property.
               k.   Creates a substantial and unreasonable interference with
the use and enjoyment of nearby premises, as documented by neighborhood
complaints, police reports, cancellation of insurance on proximate properties
or similar circumstances.
      (2)   A BLIGHT or NUISANCE is not created under this chapter if the
resident has stored items in a way that is neatly organized, does not violate §
9-9-2  and does not create a threat to the safety, health and/or general
welfare of the community and the items are stored daily.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 2015-39, passed 11-3-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 O.S. § 1
§ 4-4-2 UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall create or maintain a nuisance or permit it to be
created or maintained upon property owned by him or under his control.
   (B)   The violations of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$100 plus costs, unless the person charged has been previously convicted once
under this section or any of the following sections: §§
4-3-2,
4-5-8,
4-6-8,
7-7-2,
8-4-7 and
9-9-2, in the last five years, then a violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) (Ord. 2018-25, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 4-4-3 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to abate; time limit; abatement by city.
      (1)   In addition to prosecution for violation of §
4-4-2, whenever a nuisance is found to exist, the City Manager may cause notice
thereof to be given to the person maintaining or creating the nuisance or to
the person owning or having control of the property upon which said nuisance
exists, to abate such nuisance within the period of time stated in the notice,
which shall be not less than three days from the receipt of said notice. The
notice shall be served personally or by certified mail. In the event the
address is unknown or the person cannot be located, the notice shall be posted
upon the property involved and published in the official newspaper of the City
for a period of five days. If notice is published, the person in charge shall
have ten days from the last publication in order to abate such nuisance. In the
event the nuisance is not abated after such notice as required, the City
Manager shall have the authority to abate it and charge the cost thereof to the
person creating, maintaining or owning or in control of the property upon which
the nuisance is created or maintained, unless such person requests, in writing,
a hearing within the time allowed to abate the nuisance as stated by said
notice. If a hearing is requested, it shall be held by the City Council to
determine whether or not a nuisance has been created or is being maintained,
and the person so charged shall be afforded an opportunity to appear and
present witnesses and be heard.
      (2)   Should the City Council find that a nuisance has been created or
maintained, the person responsible shall be given a reasonable length of time
to abate such nuisance.
   (B)   Failure to abate; offense. Any person who fails to abate any nuisance
as required by this chapter shall be guilty of an offense.
(1994 Code, § 23-3) (Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 4-4-4 PAYMENT FOR WORK DONE BY CITY.
   The Code Official shall determine the actual cost of abating such nuisance
and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith, including
the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward by certified mail,
with return receipt requested, to the property owner, at the address shown by
the current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s Office, a statement of
such actual cost and demanding payment.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-5-2012)
§ 4-4-5 COLLECTION OF COSTS; LIEN.
   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of the
statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is located
and the same shall be levied on the property and collected by the County
Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the interest thereon
shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is certified to the
County Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes
and special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. At any time prior to the collection as provided in this section, the City
may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk shall forward to the
County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-5-2012)
CHAPTER 5: WEEDS AND NOXIOUS MATTER
Section
   
4-5-1   Definitions
   
4-5-2   Removal hearing authorized
   
4-5-3   Notice of hearing; waiver
   
4-5-4   Service of notice; return
   
4-5-5   Hearing
   
4-5-6   Payment for work done by city
   
4-5-7   Certification of costs to county for collection
   
4-5-8   Trash and weed accumulation
§ 4-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEANING. The removal of trash from property.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, tools, toys, junk, vehicle parts or waste, or matter
of any kind or form which is uncared for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEED.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden, unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said WEEDS;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard, including adjacent
alleyways; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED shall not include tended crops which are planted more
than ten feet from a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. For grass to
qualify as a tended crop, the landowner must provide a haying schedule to the
Code Enforcement Department each growing season.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 2015-37, passed 11-3-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111 and 50 O.S. § 1-16
§ 4-5-2 REMOVAL HEARING AUTHORIZED.
   Upon receipt of information that there has been a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, the Code Official may set a time of hearing to
determine whether such premises, by reason of the conditions specified, are
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the community, or a hazard to
traffic, or a fire hazard.
(1994 Code, § 23-17) (Prior Code, § 4-5-2)
§ 4-5-3 NOTICE OF HEARING; WAIVER.
   (A)   Abatement notice; city abatement; costs a lien.
      (1)   At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
County Treasurer’s Office before the Code Official holds a hearing or takes
action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate, and
said notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within ten
days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the City and a notice
of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property for the costs
due and owing the City. At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner,
the City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which
receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the
mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be located within ten days from
the date of mailing of same, notice may be given by posting a copy of the
notice on the property or by publication, as provided by 11 O.S. § 1-102,
subsection 8, one time not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action.
If the City anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the
provisions as herein provided, the notice, whether by certified mail or
publication, shall state that:
         (a)   Any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on
the owner’s property occurring within six months from and after the date of
this notice may be summarily abated by the City without prior notice to the
property owner;
         (b)   The costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner;
and
         (c)   A lien shall be imposed on the property to secure such payment,
all without further prior notice to the property owner.
      (2)   At the time of each summary abatement, the City Clerk shall notify
the property owner of the abatement and costs thereof. The notice shall state
that the property owner may request a hearing within ten days after the date of
mailing the notice. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of
such abatement shall be determined and collected as provided in §§
4-5-6 and
4-5-7; provided, however, these summary abatement procedures shall not apply if
the records of the County Clerk show that the property was transferred after
the notice was given pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Written consent of owner for city abatement. The owner of the property
may give his written consent to the City authorizing the removal of the trash
or the mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving said written consent, the owner
waives his right to a hearing by the City.
(1994 Code, § 23-18) (Prior Code, § 4-5-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111
§ 4-5-4 SERVICE OF NOTICE; RETURN.
   The service of all notices prescribed by this chapter shall be evidenced by
the return of the officer making such service, certified in his official
capacity and filed in the Office of the City Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 23-19) (Prior Code, § 4-5-4)
§ 4-5-5 HEARING.
   (A)   Hearing by Code Official. A hearing may be held by the Code Official
to determine whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass
has caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit and
welfare of the public and the community or a hazard to traffic, or creates a
fire hazard to the danger of property.
   (B)   Right of city to abate; lien for costs. Upon a finding that the
condition of the property constitutes a detriment or hazard, and that the
property would be benefited by the removal of such conditions, the agents of
the City are granted the right of entry on the property for the removal of
trash, mowing of weeds or grass and performance of the necessary duties as a
governmental function of the City. Immediately following the cleaning or mowing
of the property, the City Clerk shall file a notice of lien with the County
Clerk describing the property and the work performed by the City, and stating
that the City claims a lien on said property for the cleaning or mowing costs.
   (C)   Property owner right of appeal. The property owner shall have the
right of appeal to the City Council from any order of the Code Official. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk
within ten days after the administrative order is rendered.
(1994 Code, § 23-20) (Prior Code, § 4-5-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111
§ 4-5-6 PAYMENT FOR WORK DONE BY CITY.
   The Code Official shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and
mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward by
certified mail, with return receipt requested, to the property owner at the
address specified in §
4-5-3, a statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the cleaning
and mowing are done by the City, the cost to the property owner for said
cleaning and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance
and equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private
contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
(1994 Code, § 23-21) (Prior Code, § 4-5-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111
§ 4-5-7 CERTIFICATION OF COSTS TO COUNTY FOR COLLECTION.
   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of the
statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the property is located
and the same shall be levied on the property and collected by the County
Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the interest thereon
shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is certified to the
County Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes
and special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. At any time prior to the collection as provided in this section, the City
may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk shall forward to the
County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
(1994 Code, § 23-22) (Prior Code, § 4-5-7)
§ 4-5-8 TRASH AND WEED ACCUMULATION.
   (A)   Owner responsibility. No person, entity or corporation owning or
otherwise in possession or control of real property located within the
corporate limits of the City shall allow:
      (1)   Trash to accumulate in any front yard, side yard, rear yard,
adjacent alleyway or any other area that the resident has a duty to maintain;
      (2)   Weeds to grow or remain upon such real property in any front yard,
side yard, rear yard, curb area, adjacent alleyway or any other area that the
resident has a duty to maintain; and/or
      (3)   Trash and weeds, when cleared from the property, shall not be
placed, blown or otherwise allowed to be deposited into the gutters or the
street.
   (B)   Classification of violation. Each violation of the provisions of this
section shall be punishable by a fine of up to $100 plus costs and fees, unless
the person charged has been previously convicted once under this section or any
of the following sections: §§
4-3-2,
4-4-2 ,
4-6-8 ,
7-7-2 ,
8-4-7  and
9-9-2 , in the last five years, then a violation of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus costs and fees.
   (C)   Exception. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-8) (Ord. 2018-25, passed 9-6-2018)
CHAPTER 6: INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
   
4-6-1   Definitions
   
4-6-2   Certain vehicles prohibited
   
4-6-3   Nuisance declared
   
4-6-4   Notice procedure; hearing
   
4-6-5   Appeal
   
4-6-6   Abatement by the City
   
4-6-7   Owner may regain
   
4-6-8   Failure to remove
§ 4-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon public
streets for reasons including, but not limited to, being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under its own
power and shall include bodies, engine, transmissions, frames, rear ends and
parts.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property in the City which is not public
property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any property owned or controlled in the city limits by the
City, the county, the state or United States government, and shall include all
streets, alleys and highways.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1) (Ord. 2007-05, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 4-6-2 CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit, store, keep or permit to be deposited, stored or
kept in the open upon private property an inoperable motor vehicle for a period
exceeding 48 hours, unless such vehicle is completely enclosed within a
building or stored in connection with a business lawfully established to store
or work on such vehicles. If the inoperable motor vehicle is stored in
connection with a business, lawfully established to work on vehicles, the
vehicles may not be stored in excess of 90 days unless stored within a building
or on a lawfully operated salvage yard.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2) (Ord. 2007-26, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 4-6-3 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The accumulation or storage of one or more inoperable vehicles shall
constitute a nuisance detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City. It shall be the duty of the owner of such vehicle, the
owner of the private property or the lessee, or other person in possession or
control of the property upon which such vehicle is located, to remove the
vehicle from such property or have the vehicle housed in a building where it
will not be visible from the street or from other private property. The removal
or enclosure shall be made within ten days after notice has been given to the
owner of the vehicle or the owner, lessee or person in control of the property
upon which such vehicle is located. The time may be extended by the Code
Department in the case of an obvious hardship.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3) (Ord. 2007-05, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 4-6-4 NOTICE PROCEDURE; HEARING.
   (A)   The City shall give notice of violation by issuing a notice in person
or by registered mail to the owner of any inoperable motor vehicle and/or to
the owner of the real property where the vehicle is located.
   (B)   The owner shall have the right to a hearing before the Planning
Administrator, or his designee, from any notice to remove any inoperable motor
vehicle. Such right can be exercised by filing a written request for a hearing
with the City Clerk within ten days of receiving the notice.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-4) (Ord. 2007-05, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 4-6-5 APPEAL.
   An appeal to the City Council may be taken by any person aggrieved by the
Planning Administrator’s decision by filing a written request with the City
Clerk within ten days of the hearing before the Planning Administration.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-5) (Ord. 2007-05, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 4-6-6 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   Upon failure of the owner of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or person in
control of the property upon which the vehicle is located, to abate the
nuisance by removing the vehicle, the Code Department shall have the vehicle
towed and stored by a licensed wrecker, and all costs incurred as a result of
such action shall be assessed against the owner of the vehicle or the owner,
lessee or person in control of the property upon which the vehicle is located.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-6) (Ord. 2007-05, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 4-6-7 OWNER MAY REGAIN.
   The owner of any vehicle so removed may regain possession thereof by
contacting the wrecker company within 30 days from its removal and upon payment
to the wrecker company of all reasonable costs of removal and storage which
shall have accrued to such vehicle. If the vehicle is not reclaimed within 30
days, it may be sold without further notice by the licensed wrecker.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-7) (Ord. 2007-05, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 4-6-8 FAILURE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   No person shall fail to remove an inoperable motor vehicle after the
notice provided herein.
   (B)   The violations of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$100 plus costs, unless the person charged has been previously convicted once
under this section or any of the following sections: §§
4-3-2,
4-4-2,
4-5-8,
7-7-2,
8-4-7,
9-9-2 and
11-14-8, in the last five years, then a violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-8) (Ord. 2018-25, passed 9-6-2018)
TITLE 5: MUNICIPAL COURT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
1.    MUNICIPAL COURT
      
2.    POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
3.    FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
4.    EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
5.    GENERAL OFFENSES
      
6.    MINORS
      
7.    ANIMAL WELFARE
CHAPTER 1: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
5-1-1   Scope
   
5-1-2   Jurisdiction
   
5-1-3   General procedure
   
5-1-4   Municipal judges
   
5-1-5   Power to try minors
   
5-1-6   Court Clerk
   
5-1-7   Violations Bureau; compromising violations
   
5-1-8   Costs and fees
   
5-1-9   Issuance of summons and warrant
   
5-1-10   Bail bond procedure
   
5-1-11   Exceptions; warrant issuance; custody
   
5-1-12   Dishonored checks or instruments tendered for bail
   
5-1-13   Arrest, citation and bail
   
5-1-14   Bail bond and recognizance forfeitures
   
5-1-15   Probationary sentences and modification of sentences
   
5-1-16   Security for costs before commencement of prosecution
   
5-1-17   Malicious prosecution; costs
   
5-1-18   Failure to obey promise or notice to appear
   
5-1-19   Failure to comply
   
5-1-20   Contempt of court
   
5-1-21   Disposition and records
   
5-1-22   Community service ordered; failure to perform
   
5-1-23   Costs of incarceration
   
5-1-24   Credit for imprisonment and enforcement of fines, cost hearing and
District Court judgment
§ 5-1-1 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court, not of record, of the City, as put into operation by resolution of the
City, as authorized by 11 O.S. § 27-102.
§ 5-1-2 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Municipal Court shall have original jurisdiction over both adults
and juveniles to hear and determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any
ordinance of the City is charged.
   (B)   The Municipal Court shall have no authority to enforce any ordinance
making unlawful an act or omission declared by state statute to be punishable
as a felony; in addition, a municipal ordinance may not impose a penalty
greater than that established by statute for the same offense.
§ 5-1-3 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Commencement of prosecution. Prosecutions shall be commenced in the
Municipal Court by verified complaint or by verified citation.
   (B)   Conflicts and change of venue. No change of venue shall be allowed
from the Municipal Court. However, should a conflict of interest arise, the
Judge shall transfer the cause to another Judge of the Municipal Court.
   (C)   City Attorney as prosecutor. The City Attorney, or his designee, shall
be the prosecutor of the Municipal Court, and shall have full power to
prosecute the violation of any city ordinance in the Municipal Court and shall
have the power to prosecute and resist appeals and proceedings in error and
review from the Municipal Court.
   (D)   Entry of appearance by counsel. Attorneys licensed with the Oklahoma
Bar Association who wish to represent a defendant in the Municipal Court shall
contact the Court Clerk and provide the Clerk with the name of the represented
party, and the name, mailing address, telephone number and email address of the
attorney, and the name of the law firm, if any.
   (E)   Arraignments. An arraignment may be continued or rescheduled by the
Court, or the Court Clerk if directed by the Court; provided, however, unless
the defendant waives arraignment, the Court shall require an arraignment to be
had within a reasonable time after arrest. It shall remain the duty of the
defendant to appear for arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as
provided for in subsection (G) below.
   (F)   Interpreter services. The defendant must notify the Court of the need
for interpreter services at least ten days prior to the date the defendant is
scheduled to appear in court. The defendant may provide his own interpreter.
   (G)   Payment of fine in lieu of appearance. A defendant released upon
personal recognizance may elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to
the violation charged at any time before he is required to appear for
arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of the citation furnished to
him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the date of the plea and his
signature. The defendant shall be responsible for satisfying full payment of
the fine, court costs and fees to the Court Clerk. Payment may be made by
personal, cashier’s, traveler’s, certified or guaranteed bank check, postal or
commercial money order or other form of payment approved by the Court.
Provided, however, the defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail.
Payment of the fine and costs which is not accompanied by a written plea of
guilty or nolo contendere shall constitute a plea of nolo contendere entered by
the defendant as allowed by law, and shall function as a written, dated and
signed citation form acceptable to the Court. A plea of guilty or nolo
contendere as provided for in this subsection (G), such plea shall be accepted
by the Court and the amount of the fine, court costs and fees shall be as
prescribed by the prosecutor, the Judge or the municipal ordinance for the
violation charged.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-1-4 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   Number and terms. There shall be one Presiding Municipal Judge and one
Assistant Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court. Their terms shall be two
years, expiring in January in each even numbered year, and thereafter until
they are replaced.
   (B)   Duties and powers.
      (1)   In addition to his regular duties as a Municipal Judge, the
Presiding Judge shall:
         (a)   Assign cases among the Judges as he deems best;
         (b)   Assign duties to the Assistant Municipal Judge in case of his
absence or inability to preside;
         (c)   Promulgate uniform rules of court procedure; and
         (d)   Perform such other acts as required to execute the ordinances
and resolutions of the City, charter and statutes of the state.
      (2)   The Municipal Judges shall have power to issue warrants of arrest
upon the filing of written verified complaints. The Municipal Judges shall have
power to issue alias warrants at their discretion, shall issue subpoenas for
all whose testimony may be deemed material as witnesses upon the trial, and
shall enforce the attendance of witnesses, if necessary. The Municipal Judges
shall also have power to administer oaths; and to enforce due obedience to all
orders, rules and judgments made by him.
   (C)   Acting Judge. If both the Presiding Judge of the Municipal Court and
the Assistant Municipal Judge are unable to preside over a case, the Mayor may
appoint an Acting Judge as provided for under 11 O.S. § 27-106. The
compensation for the Acting Judge shall be $200 per hour.
(Ord. 2017-29, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 5-1-5 POWER TO TRY MINORS.
   The Municipal Court shall have power to try minors for violations of all
city ordinances, including, but not limited to, driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs and as otherwise set forth by state law.
§ 5-1-6 COURT CLERK.
   (A)   Monies paid to Director of Finance. The Court Clerk shall pay to the
Director of Finance at least on the first and the fifteenth days of each month
all monies so received by him, except such special deposits or fees to be
disbursed by him for special purposes. All monies paid to the Director of
Finance shall be placed in the General Fund of the City, or in such other fund
as the City Council may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the
municipal government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the
fund in which it is placed.
   (B)   Bond of Clerk. The Clerk shall give bond as required by law in the sum
of $10,000.
§ 5-1-7 VIOLATIONS BUREAU, COMPROMISING VIOLATION.
   (A)   Bureau established; fines imposed. A Violations Bureau is hereby
established as a division of the Office of the Court Clerk, to be administered
by the Clerk, or by subordinates designated by him for that purpose. Persons,
who are cited for a violation of any offense which carries a fine of less than
$500, may elect prior to the date set for appearance in court, to pay the
prescribed fine and all applicable costs and fees at the Office of the City
Clerk in lieu of appearing in court.
   (B)   Court Costs and fees. The Violations Bureau shall collect court costs
and fees, as outlined in §
5-1-8, in every case in which the defendant pleads guilty or nolo contendere
before the Violations Bureau.
   (C)   Final determination. Payment of a fine under this section shall
constitute a final determination of the cause against the defendant.
§ 5-1-8 COSTS AND FEES.
   (A)   Court costs in the amount of $25, plus the fees and mileage of jurors
and witnesses shall be charged and collected by the Court Clerk in all cases,
other than parking or seatbelt violations, and those in which the defendant is
acquitted or found not guilty or those which are dismissed upon motion of the
defendant or the City Attorney.
   (B)   The Court Clerk shall charge a fee of $35 for the initial filing of
any bond for the subsequent court appearance of a defendant, which shall be
assessed as an additional court cost to the defendant. The Court Clerk shall
remit funds to a fund of the City that shall be used to defray the costs of
housing municipal prisoners.
   (C)   The Court Clerk shall charge a fee of $5, which shall be in addition
to and not in substitute for any and all fines and penalties provided for by
this section or code, upon conviction of any offense, including traffic
offenses, but excluding parking violations. CONVICTION, for purposes of this
section, shall mean any final adjudication of guilt and includes any deferred
or suspended sentence. The Court Clerk shall remit funds to a fund of the City
that shall be used to defray the costs of the Court’s technology.
   (D)   The Court Clerk shall assess all required court fees as required by
state law in the manner prescribed by state law. These required state mandated
fees shall be enumerated in the state mandated Municipal Court fees list which
shall be posted at City Hall and be available free of charge at the City
Clerk’s Office.
   (E)   When a deferred sentence is imposed, the Court Clerk shall charge an
administrative fee of up to $500 as directed by the Court, in addition to any
deferral fee otherwise authorized by law.
(Ord. 2022-20, passed 8-16-2022)
§ 5-1-9 ISSUANCE OF SUMMONS AND WARRANT.
   (A)   Issuance and contents of summons. Upon the filing of a complaint
charging violation of an ordinance, the Judge, unless he determines to issue a
warrant of arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a
citation or has been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a
summons, naming the person charged, specifying his address or place of
residence, if known, stating the offense with which he is charged and giving
him notice to answer the charge in the Court on a day certain, containing a
provision for the official return of the summons, and including such other
pertinent information as may be necessary.
   (B)   Failure to appear; issuance of warrant. The summons shall be served by
delivering a copy to the defendant personally. If he fails to appear to answer
the summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his
arrest.
   (C)   Search warrant; arrest of individual. Upon proper application, the
Judge is hereby authorized to issue a search warrant if he is satisfied of the
existence of grounds of the application or if there is probable cause to
believe their existence. Such warrant shall be signed by the Judge with his
name of office, to the Police Chief, commanding him forthwith to search the
person or place named, for the property specified, and to bring it before the
Judge, and also to arrest the person in whose possession the same may be found,
to be dealt with according to law.
§ 5-1-10 BAIL BOND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Conditions for release for violation. In addition to other provisions
of law for posting bail, any person, whether a resident of this state or a
nonresident, who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a
misdemeanor violation of a municipal ordinance shall be released by the
arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      (1)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by Oklahoma or another state within the United States which is a
participant in the Nonresident Violator Compact, see 47 O.S. § 790, or any
other jurisdiction which is a participant in the Nonresident Violator Compact;
or if the arrested person is charged with an offense that is not a traffic
offense and has been issued a state identification card or a United States
military identification card;
      (2)   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      (3)   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation and the officer believes the person will appear;
      (4)   The officer believes the person will not cause injury to himself or
others or damage to property if released; and
      (5)   The violation does not constitute one of the following:
         (a)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         (b)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         (c)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         (d)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         (e)   An offense against a person as found in
Title 5, Chapter 5, Articles B and C of this code; or
         (f)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections (A)(5)(a) through (A)(5)(d) above.
   (B)   Court appearance. If any person is charged with an offense that
carries jail time, they must appear before the Court.
   (C)   Duties of arresting officer upon release of arrested person.
      (1)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in subsection (A) above, then the arresting
officer shall:
         (a)   Designate the charge;
         (b)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license
on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
         (c)   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information, if a
vehicle is involved in the offense;
         (d)   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         (e)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear
as provided for in the citation.
      (2)   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in Oklahoma, or in the
nonresident’s home state pursuant to the Nonresident Violator Compact.
   (D)   Time of arraignment. If the arraignment is continued or rescheduled,
the arrested person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise
to appear until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same
consequences as if the continued or rescheduled arraignment was entered on the
citation by the arresting officer and signed by the defendant.
   (E)   Issuance of warrant for arrest.
      (1)   Non-traffic offenses. If an individual fails to appear after being
issued a citation, a warrant shall be issued and his appearance shall be
compelled.
      (2)   Traffic offenses; notify state; recommend suspension of driver’s
license.
         (a)   If, pursuant to the provisions of §
5-1-3, the defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the Court may issue a
warrant for the arrest of the defendant. The Court Clerk, within 120 calendar
days from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer, shall
notify the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety that:
            1.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
            2.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without
good cause shown;
            3.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine or made any
other arrangement with the Court to satisfy the citation; and
            4.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
         (b)   Additionally, the Court Clerk shall request the Oklahoma
Department of Public Safety to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license
to operate a motor vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant’s home state
and request suspension of the defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with
the provisions of the Nonresident Violator Compact, see 47 O.S. § 790. Such
notice and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the Department
of Public Safety.
      (3)   Notification and request. The Court Clerk shall not process the
notification and request provided for in this subsection (E) if, with respect
to such charges:
         (a)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed or otherwise settled the case;
         (b)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section; or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment; or
         (c)   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date
the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   (F)   Records; notification of resolution of case. The Court Clerk shall
maintain a record of each request for driver’s license suspension submitted to
the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety pursuant to the provisions of this
section. When the Court or Court Clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of
the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other arrangements with the
defendant or otherwise closes the case, the Court Clerk shall furnish proof
thereof to such defendant, if the defendant personally appears, or shall mail
such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the
address noted on the citation or at such other address as is furnished by the
defendant. Additionally, the Court or Court Clerk shall notify the home
jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the citation, if such jurisdiction
is a member of the Nonresident Violator Compact, see 47 O.S. § 790, and shall,
in all other cases, notify said Department of the resolution of the case. The
form of proof and the procedures for notification shall be approved by the
Oklahoma Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 2018-32, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 5-1-11 EXCEPTIONS; WARRANT ISSUANCE; CUSTODY.
   (A)   Issuance of warrant. If a person arrested for a violation is released
upon personal recognizance as provided for in §
5-1-10, but subsequently posts bail and thereafter fails to timely appear as
provided for by law, the Court may issue a warrant for the person’s arrest and
the case shall be processed pursuant to 11 O.S. § 27-118.
   (B)   Arraignment; person placed in custody. If the defendant is not
eligible for release upon personal recognizance as provided for in § 5-11-10,
or if eligible but refuses to sign a written promise to appear, the officer
shall deliver the person to the Judge for arraignment and the Judge shall
proceed as otherwise provided for by law. If no Judge is available, the
defendant shall be placed in the custody of a detention facility currently in
agreement with the City to hold city inmates, to be held until a Judge is
available or bail is posted.
   (C)   Juveniles, injured or disabled persons.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a juvenile may be held
in custody pursuant to the provisions of this section, but shall be
incarcerated separately from any adult offender.
         (a)   Provided, however, the arresting officer shall not be required
to place a juvenile into custody as provided for in this section or place any
other offender into custody who is injured, disabled or otherwise incapacitated
or where extraordinary circumstances exist that make a custodial arrest
inappropriate in the judgment of the arresting officer.
         (b)   Similarly, the arresting officer shall not be required to place
an offender into custody, if the arrest would require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo or items requiring special maintenance
or care.
      (2)   In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and
time of arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person fails
to appear without good cause shown, the Court may issue a warrant for the
person’s arrest.
§ 5-1-12 DISHONORED CHECKS OR INSTRUMENTS TENDERED FOR BAIL.
   A personal check or other instrument tendered to the Court Clerk for bail or
for the payment of fine and costs, if dishonored and returned to said Clerk for
any reason other than the lack of proper endorsement, shall constitute
nonpayment of the bail or fine, as the case may be, and the Court, in addition
to any civil or criminal remedy otherwise provided for by law, may issue a
bench warrant for the arrest of the person named on the citation to require his
appearance on the charge specified.
§ 5-1-13 ARREST, CITATION AND BAIL.
   (A)   Ordinance violations.
      (1)   If a resident of the City is arrested by a law enforcement officer,
for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which §
5-1-10 does not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a nontraffic
ordinance, the officer shall immediately release said person if the person
acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. Provided, however, the
arresting officer need not release said person if it reasonably appears to the
officer that the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to
property if released, that the person will not appear in response to the
citation, or the person is arrested for an offense against a person or
property. If said person fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant
shall be issued for his arrest and his appearance shall be compelled. If the
arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a citation as
herein provided, he shall be admitted to bail either before or after
arraignment, or shall be released on personal recognizance.
      (2)   If a nonresident of the City is arrested by a law enforcement
officer for a violation of any ordinance for which §
5-1-10 does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment.
      (3)   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the
provisions of subsections (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall be determined by the
Judge who shall prescribe rules for the receipt of bail and for the release on
personal recognizance. In the event of arrests at night, emergencies or when
the Judge is not available, a court official, the Chief of Police, or his
designated representative, may be authorized by the Judge, subject to such
conditions as shall be prescribed by the Judge, to accept a temporary cash bond
in a sufficient amount to secure the appearance of the accused. The cash bond
shall not exceed the maximum fine plus court costs for each offense charged.
The Court Official, Chief of Police, or his designated representative, is
authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by the Judge, to
release a resident of the City on personal recognizance.
      (4)   If the alleged offense is a violation of an ordinance restricting
or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under
such ordinance, and the operator is not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation in writing in the form prescribed by the City. The
operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it has been issued to him personally under subsection (A)(1)
above.
   (B)   Nonpayment of fine and costs.
      (1)   If a defendant, upon conviction for a misdemeanor violation of a
municipal traffic offense or after having entered a plea of nolo contendere or
guilty to a misdemeanor violation of a municipal traffic offense, fails to pay
the fine, fees or costs, and has been found to have the ability to pay but has
refused to do so, the Court or the Court Clerk, as directed by the Court, may
issue a warrant for the arrest of the defendant or issue an order committing
the defendant to jail, and notify the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety that
the defendant has failed to pay the fine or costs imposed.
      (2)   Additionally, the Court Clerk shall request the Oklahoma Department
of Public Safety to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license to operate
a motor vehicle in this state or notify the defendant’s home state and request
suspension of the defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with the
provisions of the Nonresident Violator Compact, see 47 O.S. § 790. Such notice
and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the Oklahoma Department
of Public Safety.
      (3)   The Court Clerk shall maintain a record of each request for
driver’s license suspension submitted to the Oklahoma Department of Public
Safety pursuant to the provisions of this section. When the Court or Court
Clerk receives appropriate payment of the fine and costs, or makes other
arrangements with the defendant or otherwise closes the case, the Court Clerk
shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant personally
appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
defendant at the address noted on the citation or at such other address as is
furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the Court or Court Clerk shall notify
the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the citation, if such
jurisdiction is a member of the Nonresident Violator Compact see 47 O.S. § 790,
and shall in all cases notify the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety of the
resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for notification
shall be approved by the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety.
§ 5-1-14 BAIL BOND AND RECOGNIZANCE FORFEITURES.
   In the case of a breach of any bond or recognizance, a proceeding shall be
instituted for forfeiture in accordance with state law. All bonds and
recognizance recovered in such action shall be paid to the Director of Finance.
§ 5-1-15 PROBATIONARY SENTENCES AND MODIFICATION OF SENTENCES.
   (A)   Probation; suspension of fine or jail sentence. When any person has
been tried and found guilty or has pleaded guilty or nolo contendere, the Judge
may release the defendant on probation for a period not to exceed six months in
the following manner.
      (1)   The Judge, at his discretion, may suspend any fine or jail
sentence, or any part thereof with or without conditions attached. Any
suspension shall be subject to revocation.
      (2)   The Judge imposing a judgment and sentence at his discretion, and
before a judgment of guilt, is empowered to defer the imposition of such
sentence or any part thereof and to authorize probation under his supervision
for a period not to exceed six months from the date of sentencing under such
terms or conditions as the Judge may specify. Such conditions may include
restitution or community service. Upon completion of the probation term, the
defendant shall be discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the
verdict, judgment of guilty or plea of guilty shall be expunged from the record
and said charge be dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a
finding of the Court that the conditions of probation have been violated, the
Judge may enter a judgment of guilt.
      (3)   The Judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence
and place the defendant on probation as specified in subsection (A)(2) above
for a period of time not to exceed six months from the date of sentence. At the
expiration of such period of time, the Judge may allow the City Attorney to
amend the charge to a lesser offense.
   (B)   Modification of sentence. The Judge imposing a judgment and sentence,
at his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce or suspend the sentence or
any part thereof.
   (C)   Deferred sentence; fee in lieu of fine. If a deferred sentence is
imposed, a deferral fee of not to exceed $200 for traffic related offenses
related to speeding or parking may be imposed in lieu of fines in the case. For
alcohol related or drug related offenses, a deferral fee not to exceed $800 may
be imposed in lieu of fines in the case. For all other offenses, a deferral fee
not to exceed $750 may be imposed in lieu of fines in the case.
   (D)   Compliance with statute. Procedures relating to suspension of the
judgment or costs, or both, shall be as provided for in 11 O.S. § 27-123.
§ 5-1-16 SECURITY FOR COSTS BEFORE COMMENCEMENT OF PROSECUTION.
   When application is made by any person to commence any prosecution in the
Municipal Court, the Judge may, at his discretion, before any such proceeding
is commenced, require the person making such application to give good and
sufficient security for costs in the event the prosecution should fail.
§ 5-1-17 MALICIOUS PROSECUTION; COSTS.
   If upon the trial of any case in the Municipal Court, it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the Court that the prosecution was commenced without probable
cause, and from malicious motives, the Court shall state the name of the
complainant in the finding, and shall impose the costs of prosecution upon him;
and the judgment shall be rendered against such complainant that he pay such
costs and stand committed until the costs are paid.
§ 5-1-18 FAILURE TO OBEY PROMISE OR NOTICE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Written promise to appear. It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate his written promise to appear in the Municipal Court given to an
officer upon the issuance of any promise or notice to appear regardless of the
disposition of the charge for which such promise or notice to appear was
originally issued.
   (B)   Notice to appear. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to
appear in the Municipal Court pursuant to any notice to appear.
   (C)   Appearance by counsel. A written promise or notice to appear in the
Municipal Court may be complied with by an appearance by counsel.
   (D)   Appearance of parent of minor child. It shall be unlawful for the
parent, legal guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a
minor child who is charged with a violation of a municipal ordinance who has
executed a written promise to appear or has received a notice to appear in the
Municipal Court with said minor child to fail to so appear.
   (E)   Violation. Any person who shall violate this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished by a maximum fine of
$500 plus costs and/or by imprisonment in the County Detention Facility for a
term of not more than 60 days.
(Ord. 2014-21, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 5-1-19 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate, disobey
or otherwise fail to comply with any order of the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Violation. Any person who shall violate this section shall be guilty
of misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished by a maximum fine of
$500 plus costs, and/or by imprisonment in the County Detention Facility for a
term of not more than 60 days.
(Ord. 2014-21, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 5-1-20 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit disorderly
or insolent behavior during any session of the Court; to refuse to be sworn as
a witness; to refuse to answer any legal or proper question, to cause any
breach of the peace; noise or disturbance which is so near the Court as to
interrupt its proceedings; to willfully disobey any process or order lawfully
issued or made by the Court; or to willfully resist the execution of a lawful
order or process of the Court.
   (B)   Violation. Any person who shall violate this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished by a maximum fine of
$500 plus costs, and/or by imprisonment in the County Detention Facility for a
term of not more than 60 days.
(Ord. 2014-21, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 5-1-21 DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Copy of tickets issued deposited with Court. The Chief of Police, or
other responsible officer, shall cause the original copy of every ticket issued
to an alleged violator of any ordinance to be deposited with the Municipal
Court.
   (B)   Disposition of ticket; exceptions. Upon the deposit of such ticket
with the Municipal Court, said ticket may be disposed of only by trial in said
Court, or other official action by a judge of said Court, including forfeiture
of bail, or by payment of a fine to the Court Clerk; provided, however, the
provisions of this subsection (B) shall not apply to cases which the City
Attorney declines to prosecute or are withdrawn by a citizen complainant.
   (C)   Improper disposal or alteration of ticket. It shall be unlawful and
official misconduct for any person to dispose of, alter or deface a ticket or
any copies thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of any ticket
or warrant in a manner other than authorized.
   (D)   Records of warrants. The Chief of Police shall maintain or cause to be
maintained a record of all warrants issued by the Municipal Court and which are
delivered to the Police Department for service, and of the final disposition of
all warrants.
§ 5-1-22 COMMUNITY SERVICE ORDERED; FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   (A)   Service in lieu of imprisonment. All sentences of imprisonment shall
be executed by the Chief of Police of the City, and any person convicted of a
violation of any ordinance of the City and sentenced to imprisonment shall be
confined in a detention facility currently in agreement with the City to hold
city inmates, in the discretion of the Court, for the time specified in the
sentence; provided, however, the Court may, in lieu of imprisonment, order the
defendant to engage in a term of community service without compensation. If the
defendant fails to perform the required community service or if the conditions
of community service are violated, the Judge may impose a sentence of
imprisonment, not to exceed the maximum sentence allowable for the violation
for which the defendant was convicted.
   (B)   Service in lieu of fine. Whenever any person is convicted in Municipal
Court for violation of a municipal ordinance, the Court may order the defendant
to a term of community service or remedial action in lieu of fine or in
conjunction with imprisonment. If the defendant fails to perform the required
community service or if the conditions of community service are violated, the
Judge may impose a sentence of imprisonment, not to exceed the maximum sentence
allowable for the violation for which the defendant was convicted.
   (C)   Minimum wage credit. Whenever a defendant is authorized and/or ordered
by the Court to perform community service or other remedial action in lieu of a
fine or portion of a fine, the Municipal Court shall credit the fine by the
current state minimum wage for each hour of community service or other remedial
action performed.
§ 5-1-23 COSTS OF INCARCERATION.
   (A)   Authority to seek payment of costs. Upon a defendant’s conviction, or
upon the defendant’s receiving of a deferred sentence, the Court shall require
a person who is actually received into custody at a jail facility or who is
confined in a holding facility, for any offense, to pay the jail facility or
holding facility the costs of incarceration, both before and after conviction.
   (B)   Determination of costs. The costs of incarceration shall be $10 per
day, or any portion of a day, plus the actual cost of any medical care, dental
care, psychiatric care or any other medical services.
   (C)   Waiver of imposition of costs. The Court shall not waive the costs of
incarceration in their entirety. However, if the Court determines that a
reduction in the fine, costs and costs of incarceration is warranted, the Court
shall equally apply the same percentage reduction to the fine, costs and costs
of incarceration owed by the defendant.
   (D)   Percentage transmitted to fund. Except for medical costs, ten percent
(10%) of any costs of incarceration collected by the Court Clerk shall be
transmitted to the City Attorney’s Office, and the remaining amount shall be
paid to the General Fund of the City.
   (E)   Costs of incarceration. Costs of incarceration shall be a debt of the
inmate owed to the municipality and may be collected as provided by law for
collection of any other civil debt or criminal penalty.
§ 5-1-24 CREDIT FOR IMPRISONMENT AND ENFORCEMENT OF FINES, COST HEARING AND
DISTRICT COURT JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Credit for imprisonment. All defendants shall receive a $25 credit
toward fines, costs and fees when the defendant is incarcerated for at least
eight hours of a 24-hour period. No defendant shall receive more than one $25
credit in any 24-hour period.
   (B)   Refusal to pay. Any defendant who is financially able to pay, but
refuses or neglects to pay a fine, costs or fees, may be imprisoned until the
same shall be satisfied at the rate of $25 per day.
   (C)   Cost hearing. If a defendant is without means to pay the fine, costs
or fees, the defendant may request a cost hearing pursuant to 22 O.S. § 983.
The defendant shall complete and return a financial affidavit provided by the
Court Clerk and the Municipal Judge shall hold a cost hearing to determine if
the defendant is able to pay or is entitled to relief under 22 O.S. § 983.
   (D)   District Court judgment. If a defendant fails to pay the fine, costs
or fees, the Municipal Judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon
the Court minutes and certified to the District Court of the county, where it
shall be entered upon the District Court judgment docket and shall have the
full force and effect of a District Court judgment.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 2: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
5-2-1   Composition of Department
   
5-2-2   Reserve police officers
   
5-2-3   Unclaimed personal property
   
5-2-4   Enhanced 911 emergency telephone service
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see Part C of the City Charter
Statutory reference:
   Municipal police departments, see 11 O.S. §§ 34-101 et seq.
   Municipal police pension and retirement system, see 11 O.S. §§ 50-101 et
seq.
§ 5-2-1 COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the City shall consist of the following police
officers:
 
Title        Authorized Positions
Captains     5
Lieutenants  6
Patrolmen    74
Police Chief 1
Sergeants    14
 
§ 5-2-2 RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment. In addition to the regular full time police officers, the
Police Chief may appoint reserve police officers.
   (B)   Volunteer positions; limitations.
      (1)   Reserve police officers serve at the pleasure of the Police Chief
and are considered volunteers, not employees.
      (2)   Such reserve police officers may be released from their volunteer
position without notice or reason given.
      (3)   The police civil service charter, the collective bargaining
agreement and the personnel manual do not apply to reserve police officers.
   (C)   Powers and duties. Reserve police officers do have the powers, duties
and functions of regular full time police officers.
§ 5-2-3 UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Disposition of property in possession of Chief of Police.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is authorized to dispose of personal property
or money or legal tender as provided in this section, which has come into his
possession in any manner if:
         (a)   The owner of the personal property or money or legal tender is
unknown or has not claimed the property;
         (b)   The property or money or legal tender has been in the custody of
the Chief of Police for at least 90 days; and
         (c)   The property or money or legal tender or any part thereof is no
longer needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose in connection
with any litigation.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall file an application in the county
District Court requesting the authority of said Court to conduct a sale of such
personal property which has a fair market value of more than its face value.
The Chief of Police shall attach to his application a list describing such
property including any identifying numbers and marks, the date said property
came into his possession and the name of the owner and the person in last
possession, if different, and his address, if known. The Court shall set said
application for hearing not less than ten days nor more than 20 days after
filing of said application.
      (3)   In any instance where said property has an actual or apparent value
of more than $250 at least ten days prior to the date of said hearing, notice
of said hearing shall be sent by first class mail to each owner at his address
as listed in said application. If the owner of any property with an actual or
apparent value exceeding $500 is unable to be served notice by first class
mail, notice shall be provided by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county. Said notice shall contain a brief description of the
property of said owner and the place and date of the hearing. Said notice shall
be posted at the assigned place for the posting of municipal notices, and at
two other public places in the municipality.
      (4)   If no owner appears and establishes ownership to said property at
the hearing, the Court shall enter an order authorizing the Chief of Police to
sell said personal property for cash to the highest bidder, after at least five
days of notice of said sale has been published. The Chief of Police shall make
a return of said sale and the order of the Court confirming said sale shall
vest title to said property in the purchaser. After payment of court costs and
other expenses, the remainder of money received from the sale of said personal
property shall be deposited in the municipal General Fund.
      (5)   All monies or legal tender which has come into the possession of
the Chief of Police pursuant to the circumstances provided for in subsection
(A)(1) above shall be transferred by the Chief of Police to the City Clerk for
deposit in the municipal General Fund. Prior to any such transfer, the Chief of
Police shall file an application in the District Court requesting the Court to
enter an order authorizing him to transfer said money for deposit in the
municipal General Fund. The application shall describe the money or legal
tender, any serial numbers, the date the same came into his possession and the
name of the owner and his address, if known. Upon filing the application which
may be joined with an application as described in subsection (A)(2) above, a
hearing shall be set not less than ten days nor more than 20 days from the
filing of the application. Notice of said hearing shall be given as provided
for in subsection (A)(3) above. The notice shall state that upon failure of
anyone to appear to prove ownership to said money or legal tender, the Court
shall order the same to be deposited in the municipal General Fund. The notice
may be combined with a notice to sell personal property as provided for in
subsection (A)(2) above. If no one appears to claim and prove ownership to said
money or legal tender at the hearing, the Court shall order the same to be
transferred to the municipal General Fund as provided in this subsection (A).
      (6)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous or
deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives or any property of any
kind or character, the possession of which is prohibited by law. By order of
the Trial Court, any such property filed as an exhibit or held by the City
shall be destroyed or sold or disposed of, pursuant to the conditions
prescribed in such order.
   (B)   Limitation of liability. Neither the City, nor any of its officers,
agents or employees, shall be liable from any actions taken by any person
concerning the receipt, storage or disposition of any personal property.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 5-2-4 ENHANCED 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police for the City is authorized to administer the
enhanced 911 emergency telephone service in the City.
   (B)   The City has entered into interlocal agreements in order to cooperate
with other public entities to benefit the public. Specifically, the City
Council has executed interlocal agreements with Garfield County and Major
County to establish a joint emergency telephone system, the 911 Board of Enid,
Garfield County and Major County and determine how the joint system will be
administered.
CHAPTER 3: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
5-3-1   Composition of Department
   
5-3-2   Contracts for fire protection outside City
   
5-3-3   Response to calls outside City
   
5-3-4   Hazardous materials incident response
   
5-3-5   Statewide or county fire bans or restrictions
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see Part B of the City Charter
Statutory reference:
   Fire departments generally, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-101 et seq.
§ 5-3-1 COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Rank and number. The Fire Department of the City shall consist of the
following officers and firefighters in order of rank and grade, and as divided
into line, specialties and staff classifications:
      (1)   Line officers, rank:
 
Assistant Chief 1
Captain         6
Chief           1
Deputy Chief    3
Lieutenant      15
 
      (2)   Firefighters, rank:
 
Grade—driver    24
Grade—firefighte21
 
      (3)   Specialties officers, rank:
 
Assistant mechanic 3
Master mechanic    1
 
      (4)   Staff officers, rank:
 
Assistant Fire Marshal     3
Assistant training officer 1
Fire Marshal               1
Training officer           1
 
   (B)   Testing for specialty or staff officer positions. Firefighters or
positions of higher rank and/or grade may test for specialty officer or staff
officer positions upon the completion of two years of continuous service with
the Fire Department.
   (C)   Returning to line officer or firefighter position. Any line officer or
firefighter who becomes a specialty or staff officer and desires to return to
the line shall return to the grade or rank formerly held as a line officer or
firefighter.
   (D)   Testing for higher position. Staff and specialty officers, having met
all applicable provisions of the Fire Department Civil Service Charter, may
test for the next higher line position than was previously held prior to their
promotion as staff or specialty officers.
   (E)   Peace officer certification. The Fire Marshal and Assistant Fire
Marshal shall be considered peace officers and should be certified as such by
the Oklahoma Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training.
§ 5-3-2 CONTRACTS FOR FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   Authority of City. The City may enter into contracts with individuals
or political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the
corporate limits of the City, and to contract to provide fire protection
jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   Charges for City services. Any contract entered into by the City with
an individual or political subdivision of the state for outside aid or mutual
aid for fire protection shall provide for the payment by said owner or
political subdivision to the City for such apparatus and personnel at the rate
provided for in §
2-6D-1(A) for the use of any engine, hose wagon, ladder wagon or any piece of
fire apparatus together with the personnel furnished therewith by the City.
Statutory references:
   Fire protection contracts, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-105 and 29-106
§ 5-3-3 RESPONSE TO CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   Limitations on response; fee. The Fire Department shall answer all
outside fire calls within a distance of three miles from the city limits, and
within 1,000 feet of a standard fire hydrant, unless, in the opinion of the
Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account of another fire in the City,
broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways or any other physical
condition. Other calls outside the city limits shall be answered whenever
deemed advisable by the Fire Chief. The Fire Department shall assess the fee
provided for in § 
2-6D-1(B) for the use of fire equipment together with personnel furnished
therewith by the City.
   (B)   Status of firefighters when serving outside city. All firefighters of
the Fire Department attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention
work or rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other official work
outside the corporate limits of the City shall be considered as serving in
their regular line of duty. Said firefighters shall receive no additional
compensation, but shall be entitled to all pension and retirement benefits in
the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work was being done
within the City.
   (C)   Fire Department agent of state while outside city. The Fire Department
answering any fire alarm or performing any fire prevention services, or rescue,
resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other official work outside of the
corporate limits of the City shall be considered an agent of the state, and
acting solely in a governmental capacity. The City shall not be liable for any
act of commission, omission or negligence while answering or returning from any
fire, or reported fire, or doing or performing any fire prevention work under
and by virtue hereof.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-107 and 29-108
§ 5-3-4 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT RESPONSE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS ENTITY OR PERSON. Any corporation, sole proprietorship,
partnership, limited partnership, person, firm or other similar entity engaged
in any commercial, business or industrial transaction of any nature.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT. Any incident that involves the release of
any hazardous material from its intended container that has the potential to
harm persons, property or the environment.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE TEAM. The hazardous materials response team
of the City’s Fire Department.
      HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance that, because of its quantity,
concentration or physical or chemical characteristics, poses a significant
present or potential hazard, according to federal, state and/or local standards
and regulations, to human health and safety or to the environment if released
from its intended container.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Jointly and severally, all persons involved in the
possession, ownership or transportation of any hazardous material that is
released or abandoned, or who have legal liability for the causation of an
incident resulting in the release or abandonment of any hazardous material.
   (B)   Nuisance. Due to the harmful effects of hazardous substances, a
hazardous materials incident is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (C)   Response. The Fire Department is authorized to respond to any
hazardous materials incident within or outside the City in order to mitigate
the effects of any hazardous substance or waste unlawfully, accidentally or
negligently released, discharged or deposited upon or into any property or
facilities within the City.
   (D)   Responsibility. The following described persons shall be liable to the
City for the payment of all costs incurred by the City as a result of a
hazardous materials incident:
      (1)   The person or persons whose accidental, negligent or willful act or
omission proximately caused such release, discharge or deposit;
      (2)   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
container that held such hazardous substance or waste at the time of such
release, discharge or deposit without regard to fault or proximate cause; and
      (3)   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
container that held such hazardous waste or substance at the time or
immediately prior to such release, discharge or deposit without regard to fault
or proximate cause.
   (E)   Costs. The costs for responding to a hazardous materials incident by
the City shall be computed as provided for in §
2-6D-3.
   (F)   Service limits. The service provided by the hazardous materials
response team is limited to the initial emergency response to a hazardous
materials incident and includes only those stabilization and protective
measures deemed necessary and feasible by the incident commander to initially
address the immediate threat to the public health and safety. Deployment of the
team beyond the scope of the team’s resources and capabilities for such an
initial response is not contemplated under this section and the City reserves
the right to terminate the services of the team at any time after arrival at
the site. Protective and stabilization requirements continuing beyond the
cessation of service, along with the cleaning up, removal or disposal of
hazardous materials, and any testing, monitoring or long term care of the site
of the hazardous materials incident shall remain the duty of the responsible
party. The provisions of this section shall not be construed to excuse or
exempt any responsible party from any legal duties, liabilities or costs
associated with the hazardous materials release or abandonment other than the
costs for the services of the hazardous materials response team for the
duration of the service call.
   (G)   Appeal. Anyone assessed the costs of mitigating a hazardous materials
incident may appeal the assessment to the City Council by notifying the City
Clerk in writing within ten days of receipt of the notification of the
assessment.
§ 5-3-5 STATEWIDE OR COUNTY FIRE BANS OR RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate statewide or
county fire bans or fire restrictions promulgated by the governor of the state,
the state Fire Marshal or other appropriate legal authority.
   (B)   The violation of this section may result in criminal prosecution and
the imposition of a fine up to $500.
CHAPTER 4: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
5-4-1   Emergency management
   
5-4-2   Definitions
   
5-4-3   Organization and appointments
   
5-4-4   City Manager
   
5-4-5   Director of Emergency Management
   
5-4-6   Emergency management basic plan
   
5-4-7   Assistance from persons outside city government
   
5-4-8   Nonliability provisions
   
5-4-9   Violation of regulations
   
5-4-10   Penalty
§ 5-4-1 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   This section sets out the purpose and function of emergency management for
the City to protect the lives and health of the residents of the City and their
property and property rights, whether public or private, in any disaster
endangering the lives and property of the people of the City by having a
comprehensive emergency management program which seeks to communicate the
effects of a hazard, to prepare for measures to be taken which will preserve
life and minimize damage, to respond during emergencies and provide necessary
assistance and to have a recovery process in order to return the City to its
normal state of affairs.
§ 5-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Emergency Management appointed as prescribed in
this chapter.
   DISASTER. Includes, but is not limited to, actual or threatened enemy
attacks, sabotage, extraordinary fire, riot, flood, drought, tornado, storm,
earthquake, hazardous materials, epidemic or other impending or actual calamity
endangering or threatening to endanger health, life, property or constituted
government.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which the military services are
primarily responsible, by the office of emergency management and other city
departments and by organized and trained volunteer civilian persons, who will
extend existent governmental functions and provide other necessary
nongovernmental functions, as listed herein, to prevent, minimize and repair
injury and damage resulting from enemy attack, riot or disasters caused by
fire, flood, tornado, drought, winter storms, earthquakes, hazardous materials
incident or other causes developing to such an extent to cause an extreme
emergency situation that jeopardizes the welfare of the residents and results
in a city proclamation of disaster of the City pursuant to 63 O.S. § 683.11.
These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police
services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, chemical and other special weapons of defense,
evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services,
emergency transportation, integration of industry emergency plans into
emergency management plans, assistance to private and public utility companies
and the temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions
relative to civilian protection, together with all activities necessary or
incidental to the preparation for, and carrying out of, the foregoing
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment and facilities of all
city departments, boards, institutions and commissions. It shall also include
all volunteer personnel, equipment and facilities contributed by, or obtained
from, volunteer persons or agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified and
appointed by the Director of the Office of Emergency Management and assigned to
participate in the emergency management activity.
   REGULATION. Includes plans, programs and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to emergency management.
   VOLUNTEER. Any person or entity contributing a service, equipment or
facilities to the emergency management organization without remuneration.
§ 5-4-3 ORGANIZATION AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Creation. The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to create
an office of emergency management utilizing to the fullest extent the existing
departments within the City. The City Manager shall be the supervisor of the
Director of Emergency Management and the emergency forces for the City and
shall be responsible for their organization, administration and operations.
   (B)   Membership. The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An office of emergency management consisting of a director and such
assistants and other employees as deemed necessary for the proper functioning
of the organization under the direct supervision of the City Manager;
      (2)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all city departments,
boards, institutions and commissions will participate in the emergency
management activity. Duties assigned to a city department shall be the same or
similar to the normal duties of the department; and
      (3)   Volunteer persons and agencies offering service to and accepted by
the City.
   (C)   Director of Emergency Management. The City Manager shall appoint a
director of emergency management who shall be a person well versed and trained
in planning operations involving the activities of many different agencies
which will operate to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents
in the event of a disaster.
   (D)   Emergency duties of City Manager. In the event the City Manager is
unable to assume emergency duties for any reason, his designee will assume his
emergency duties. In the event no designee is available, the City Council shall
designate an acting City Manager to serve in this capacity until the City
Manager is able to resume his duties, the disaster has abated.
§ 5-4-4 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Exercise of emergency powers. The City Manager may exercise the
emergency power and authority necessary to fulfill his general powers and
duties as defined in the City Charter, Part D, Article I, § 13. When, in the
judgment of the City Manager, it is necessary to invoke the emergency powers
provided herein, he shall immediately seek the concurrence of the Mayor who
shall make the decision whether or not to declare an emergency. If the Mayor is
not available, the decision shall be made by the Mayor Pro Tem; if he is not
available, the decision shall be made by any Commissioner. In the event the
Mayor and City Commission are not available to act, then the judgment of the
City Manager shall be the sole criteria necessary to invoke the powers provided
herein. Upon making said determination, a proclamation will be issued declaring
said emergency pursuant to 63 O.S. § 683.11. Whether the Mayor, the Mayor Pro
Tem, a city Commissioner or the City Manager declares an emergency, the
concurrence of the other members of the City Commission shall be obtained as
soon as possible. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as abridging or
curtailing the powers of the City Council as defined in the City Charter, and
the City Council may convene when feasible to perform their legislative and
administrative powers and shall receive reports relative to emergency
management activities.
   (B)   Promulgation of regulations.
      (1)   During any period when disaster threatens or when the City has been
struck by disaster, the City Manager may promulgate such regulations as he
deems necessary to protect life and property and preserve critical resources.
Such regulations may include, but should not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Regulations prohibiting or restricting the movement of vehicles
in order to facilitate the work of emergency management forces, or to
facilitate the mass movement of persons from critical areas within or without
the City;
         (b)   Regulations pertaining to the movement of persons from areas
deemed to be hazardous or vulnerable to disaster;
         (c)   Regulations restricting the movements of persons upon the
streets at particular times of day and particular areas;
         (d)   Regulations restricting, regulating or controlling the sale,
purchase or dispensing of other commodities or goods;
         (e)   Regulations concerning the sale, purchase or dispensing of
alcoholic or low point beer;
         (f)   Regulations taking control of transportation, communication,
stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and public utilities; and
         (g)   Such other regulations necessary to preserve public peace,
health and safety.
      (2)   Regulations promulgated in accordance with the authority above will
be given widespread circulation by proclamations published by the newspaper and
announced on the radio. These regulations will have the force of ordinance when
duly filed with the City Clerk and violators will be subject to the penalties
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Aiding other communities. The City Manager shall order emergency
management forces to the aid of other communities when required in accordance
with the statutes of the state, and he may request the state or a political
subdivision of the state to send aid to this City in case of disaster when
conditions in the City are beyond the control of the local emergency management
forces.
   (D)   Obtaining supplies and equipment. The City Manager may obtain vital
supplies, equipment and other properties found lacking and needed for the
protection of the health, safety and welfare of the residents and bind the City
for the fair value thereof.
   (E)   Use of city personnel and volunteers. The City Manager may require
emergency services of any city official or employees. If regular city forces
are determined inadequate, the City Manager may require the services of such
other available personnel that he can obtain, including volunteers. All duly
authorized persons rendering emergency services shall be entitled to the
privileges and immunities as are provided by state law, the City Charter and
ordinances for regular city employees and other registered and identified
emergency management and disaster workers.
   (F)   Preparation of basic plan. The City Manager shall cause to be prepared
the basic plan herein referred to and to exercise his ordinary powers as City
Manager, all of the special powers conferred upon him by the City Charter, the
city code and all powers conferred upon him by any statute or any other lawful
authority.
   (G)   Accepting gifts, grants, loans. The City Manager shall be empowered to
accept any gifts, grants and loans from the federal government, from the state,
or from any person, firm or corporation pursuant to 63 O.S. § 683.1, as it may
be amended from time to time.
§ 5-4-5 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The Director of Emergency Management shall be responsible to and under the
supervision of the City Manager in regard to all phases of the emergency
management activity. He shall be responsible for the planning, coordination and
operation of the emergency management activity in the City. Under the
supervision of the City Manager, he shall maintain liaison with the state and
federal authorities and the authorities of other nearby political subdivisions
as to ensure the most effective operation of the emergency management plan. His
duties shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Coordinate the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the City for emergency management
purposes;
   (B)   Develop and coordinate plans for the immediate use of all the
facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources of the City for the purpose
of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and protecting and
restoring to usefulness governmental services and public utilities necessary
for the public health, safety and welfare;
   (C)   Negotiate agreements with owners or persons in control of properties
for emergency management purposes and designate suitable buildings as public
shelters;
   (D)   Educate the civilian population through public informational programs
and the like as to actions necessary and required for the protection of persons
and property in case of disaster;
   (E)   Conduct practice exercises to ensure the effective operation of the
emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with emergency
management regulations, procedures and operations;
   (F)   Coordinate the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activity;
   (G)   Negotiate mutual aid agreements with other municipal corporations or
political subdivisions of the state pursuant to 63 O.S.§ 683.12; and
   (H)   Assume such authority and conduct such activities as the City Manager
may direct to promote and execute the emergency management plan.
§ 5-4-6 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT BASIC PLAN.
   (A)   Adoption of plan; responsible persons.
      (1)   A comprehensive emergency management basic plan shall be adopted
and maintained by resolution of the City Council upon the recommendations of
the City Manager. The plan shall be an all hazard, integrated emergency plan to
protect the lives and property of the citizens of the City from an attack or
from natural and technological disasters. The plan will be prepared to utilize
to the fullest extent the services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all
existing departments and agencies. When approved, it shall be the duty of all
municipal departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the
plan and to maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness
at all times. The basic plan shall be considered supplementary to this chapter
and have the effect of law whenever a “disaster”, as defined in this chapter,
has been proclaimed.
      (2)   The City Manager shall prescribe in the basic plan those positions
within the disaster organization, in addition to his own, for which lines of
succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person will
designate and keep on file with the City Manager a current list of at least
three persons as successors to his position. The list will be in order of
succession and will include, as nearly as possible, designated persons best
capable of carrying out all assigned duties and functions.
      (3)   Every department head assigned responsibility in the basic plan
shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions assigned
therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned city
employees and volunteers. Each service chief shall formulate the operational
plan for his service which, when approved, shall be an annex to, and a part of,
the basic plan.
   (B)   Amendments to plan. Amendments to the basic plan shall be submitted to
the City Manager. If approved, the City Manager will submit the amendments to
the City Council with his recommendations for their approval. Such amendments
shall take effect 30 days from the date of approval unless action is taken by
the City Council disapproving the City Manager’s submission. In the event an
amendment is pending at the time a disaster is proclaimed under the provisions
of this chapter, the amendment will be considered approved immediately and will
remain effective unless specifically revoked by the City Council.
§ 5-4-7 ASSISTANCE FROM PERSONS OUTSIDE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   When a required skill for a disaster function is not available within the
city government, the City Manager is authorized to seek assistance from persons
outside of government. The assignment of duties, when of a supervisory nature,
shall also grant authority for the person so assigned to carry out such duties
prior to, during, and after the occurrence of a disaster. Such services from
persons outside of government may be accepted by the City on a volunteer or
contract basis.
§ 5-4-8 NONLIABILITY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   City. This chapter is an exercise by the City of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health, safety and welfare,
and neither the City nor agents and representatives of the City, or any
individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or trustee,
or any of the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with, or
attempting to comply with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to
persons or property as the result of said activity.
   (B)   Private persons. Any person owning or controlling real estate or other
premises who, voluntarily and without compensation, grants the City the right
to inspect, designate and use the whole or any part or parts of such real
estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual,
impending or practice disaster shall not be civilly liable for the death or
injury of any persons on or about such real estate or premises under such
license, privilege or other permission, or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
§ 5-4-9 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or of the regulations or plans issued pursuant to the authority
contained herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the
Emergency Management Organization.
§ 5-4-10 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter, or
any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to this chapter, will be guilty of
an offense punishable by a maximum fine of $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2018-14, passed 5-22-2018)
CHAPTER 5: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Article A: General Provisions; Miscellaneous Offenses
   
5-5A-1   Attempt to commit an offense
   
5-5A-2   Aiding and abetting
   
5-5A-3   Living in or placing tents on public property
   
5-5A-4   Discarded refrigerators
   
5-5A-5   Obstruction of drainage channel
Article B: Offenses Involving Injury to Persons
   
5-5B-1   Assault and battery
   
5-5B-2   Certain acts against police dogs and service animals
   
5-5B-3   Obscene, threatening or harassing communication
   
5-5B-4   Stalking; harassment
Article C: Offenses Against Property
   
5-5C-1   Definitions
   
5-5C-2   Trespassing
   
5-5C-3   Tampering with private or public property
   
5-5C-4   Offenses concerning public utilities
   
5-5C-5   Petit larceny and shoplifting
   
5-5C-6   Fraudulent schemes, bad checks
   
5-5C-7   Pump piracy or larceny of gasoline
Article D: Offenses Against Decency and Morality
   
5-5D-1   Lewd exposure; prostitution; materials harmful to minors
   
5-5D-2   Gambling
   
5-5D-3   Disorderly places
   
5-5D-4   Social hosts
Article E: Offenses Against Public Peace and Order
   
5-5E-1   Disorderly conduct; disturbing the peace
   
5-5E-2   Unlawful assembly
   
5-5E-3   Obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
5-5E-4   Jostling people in public
   
5-5E-5   Public profanity and obscene gestures
   
5-5E-6   Fights or quarrels
   
5-5E-7   Public urination
   
5-5E-8   Sound amplification
Article F: Offenses Against Government
   
5-5F-1   Obstructing or interfering with official process
   
5-5F-2   Providing false information
   
5-5F-3   Resisting arrest
   
5-5F-4   Escape
   
5-5F-5   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
5-5F-6   Misuse of 911 system
   
5-5F-7   False reporting of an emergency
Article G: Weapons, Fireworks and Related Offenses
   
5-5G-1   Definitions
   
5-5G-2   Discharge of weapon; throwing fireballs
   
5-5G-3   Reckless conduct with firearm or bow and/or arrow
   
5-5G-4   Reserved
   
5-5G-5   Sale, possession, use or distribution of fireworks
   
5-5G-6   Handgun possession
Article H: Drug and Alcohol Related Offenses
   
5-5H-1   Drugs and related substances
   
5-5H-2   Alcohol restrictions; intoxication
   
5-5H-3   Smelling, inhaling of glue or other substances
   
5-5H-4   Smoking and vaping in public areas prohibited
   
5-5H-5   Furnishing of tobacco or vapor products to persons under 21 years of
age
   
5-5H-6   Smoking and vaping within city parks
   
5-5H-7   Smoking and vaping along the trail system
ARTICLE A: GENERAL PROVISIONS; MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
§ 5-5A-1 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   Attempt. Any person who attempts to commit a violation of any city
ordinance and does any act toward the commission thereof, but fails or is
prevented or interrupted from committing such violation, is guilty of an
offense.
   (B)   Penalty. The penalty for such an attempt will be punished by both
imprisonment and fine, not to exceed half of the longest term of imprisonment
and half of the largest fine which may be imposed upon a conviction for the
offense so attempted.
§ 5-5A-2 AIDING AND ABETTING.
   (A)   Aid or abet. No person shall knowingly aid, abet or assist, directly
or indirectly, any other person in the commission of a violation of a city
ordinance.
   (B)   Penalty. The punishment for aiding and abetting carries the same
imprisonment and fine as the principal charge.
§ 5-5A-3 LIVING IN OR PLACING TENTS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Living in tents. No person shall live in a tent, shack, shed or any
other type of structure, except residences, hotels, rooming houses, houses and
trailers.
   (B)   Camping in tents. No person shall erect a tent on public property for
the purpose of camping overnight, except in areas authorized by the City
Council.
   (C)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $100 plus costs. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-31, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 5-5A-4 DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall permit, allow or suffer any refrigerator,
icebox or ice chest of a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more not
being used for refrigeration purposes to be located outside of a building
without first having removed all doors or locks therefrom so that said doors
cannot be fastened shut unless such icebox or refrigerator is attended or so
situated as to be inaccessible to children, whether on private or public
property.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $500 plus costs. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
§ 5-5A-5 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAINAGE CHANNEL.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall temporarily obstruct any drainage channel
or waterway so as to impair or change the flow of surface water and to be
injurious to health or property.
   (B)   Violation. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $750 plus costs. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
ARTICLE B: OFFENSES INVOLVING INJURY TO PERSONS
§ 5-5B-1 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall commit an assault.
      (2)   ASSAULT means any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force
or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
      (3)   The violation of this subsection (A) shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed $500 plus costs.
   (B)   Battery.
      (1)   No person shall commit a battery.
      (2)   Battery mean any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon
the person of another.
      (3)   The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable by
imprisonment up to 30 days or a fine not to exceed $750 plus costs, or both.
   (C)   Assault and battery on city, school, county officials and employees.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly commit any assault upon a policeman while
such officer is in the performance of his public duties. The violation of this
subsection (C) shall be punishable by imprisonment up to 60 days or a fine not
to exceed $500 plus costs, or both.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault
and battery upon a city, county or school official or employee while such
person is in the performance of his public duties. The violation of this
subsection (C) shall be punishable by imprisonment up to 60 days or a fine not
to exceed $750 plus costs, or both.
§ 5-5B-2 CERTAIN ACTS AGAINST POLICE DOGS AND SERVICE ANIMALS.
   (A)   Injuring or killing a police dog.
      (1)   No person shall willfully torture, torment, beat, mutilate, injure,
disable, mistreat or kill a police dog owned by, or in the service of the City
or any law enforcement agency of the state.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (A) shall be punishable by
imprisonment up to 60 days or a fine of up to $500 plus costs, or both.
   (B)   Interference with performance of a police dog.
      (1)   No person shall willfully interfere with the lawful performance of
any police dog.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable by
imprisonment up to 30 days or a fine of up to $500 plus costs, or both.
   (C)   Injuring or killing a service animal.
      (1)   No person shall willfully torture, torment, beat, mutilate, injure,
disable, mistreat or kill a service animal that is used for the benefit of any
handicapped person.
      (2)   No person shall encourage, permit or allow an animal owned or kept
by such person to neglect, injure, disable or kill a service animal that is
used for the benefit of any handicapped person.
      (3)   The violation of this subsection (C) shall be punishable by
imprisonment up to 60 days or a fine of up to $750 plus costs, or both.
   (D)   Interference with a service animal.
      (1)   No person shall willfully interfere with the lawful performance of
any service animal used for the benefit of a handicapped person.
      (2)   No person shall encourage, permit or allow an animal owned or kept
by such person to interfere with a service animal in any place where the
service animal resides or performs.
      (3)   The violation of this subsection (D) shall be punishable by
imprisonment up to 30 days or a fine of up to $750 plus costs, or both.
   (E)   Definition of service animal. SERVICE ANIMAL is defined as an animal
that is trained for the purpose of guiding or assisting a disabled person who
has a sensory, mental or physical impairment.
   (F)   Owner responsibility. For the purpose of this section, when a disabled
person informs the owner of an animal that the animal is a threat and requests
that the owner control or contain the animal and the owner disregards the
request and injury to or interference with a service animal occurs, the owner
of the animal shall be deemed to have encouraged, permitted or allowed said
injury or interference.
§ 5-5B-3 OBSCENE, THREATENING OR HARASSING COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It shall be an offense for any person, by means of
in-person conversation, telephone, instant message or other electronic means of
communication, to willfully:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent;
      (2)   Engage in conversation with another with the intent to annoy,
abuse, threaten or harass another person; and/or
      (3)   In conspiracy or concerted acts with other persons, make repeated
contact with another person for the sole purpose to harass that person.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $500 plus costs.
§ 5-5B-4 STALKING; HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COURSE OF CONDUCT. A pattern of conduct composed of a series of two or
more separate acts over a period of time, however short, evidencing a
continuity of purpose. “Constitutionally protected activity” is not included
within the meaning of COURSE OF CONDUCT.
      EMOTIONAL DISTRESS. Significant mental suffering or distress that may,
but does not necessarily, require medical or other professional treatment or
counseling.
      HARASSES. Conduct directed toward a person that includes, but is not
limited to, repeated or continuing unconsented contact, that would cause a
reasonable person to suffer emotional distress, and that actually causes
emotional distress to the victim. HARASSMENT does not include constitutionally
protected activity or conduct that serves a legitimate purpose.
      MEMBER OF THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Any spouse, parent, child, person related
within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity or any other person who
regularly resides in the household or who regularly resided in the household
within the prior six months.
      UNCONSENTED CONTACT. Any contact with another individual that is
initiated or continued without the consent of the individual, or in disregard
of that individual’s expressed desire that the contact be avoided or
discontinued. “Constitutionally protected activity” is not included within the
meaning of UNCONSENTED CONTACT. UNCONSENTED CONTACT includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   Following or appearing within the sight of that individual;
         (b)   Approaching or confronting that individual in a public place or
on private property;
         (c)   Appearing at the workplace or residence of that individual;
         (d)   Entering onto or remaining on property owned, leased or occupied
by that individual;
         (e)   Contacting that individual by telephone;
         (f)   Sending mail or electronic communications to that individual;
and
         (g)   Placing an object on, or delivering an object to, property
owned, leased or occupied by that individual.
   (B)   Illegal acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully,
maliciously and repeatedly follow or harass another person in a manner that:
      (1)   Would cause a reasonable person or a “member of the immediate
family” of that person, as defined in this section to feel frightened,
intimidated, threatened, harassed or molested; and/or
      (2)   Actually causes the person being followed or harassed to feel
terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed or molested.
   (C)   Continuation of conduct; intimidation. Evidence that the defendant
continued to engage in a course of conduct involving repeated unconsented
contact with the victim after having been requested by the victim to
discontinue the same or a different form of unconsented contact, and to refrain
from any further unconsented contact with the victim, shall give rise to a
rebuttal presumption that the continuation of the course of conduct caused the
victim to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed or
molested.
   (D)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by
imprisonment up to 60 days or a fine of up to $750 plus costs, or both.
ARTICLE C: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 5-5C-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PETIT LARCENY. The taking of personal property not exceeding $1,000, in
value, accomplished by fraud or stealth, with the intent to deprive another
thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. The property which is dedicated to the public use and over
which the federal, state, political subdivisions or municipal governments
exercises control and dominion.
   SHOPLIFTING. The wrongful taking of merchandise or money, the value of which
does not exceed $1,000 from a retail or wholesale establishment.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 5-5C-2 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Public property.
      (1)   No person shall trespass on public property in violation and
contrary to the provisions of any official sign posted to regulate entry or
use.
      (2)   Trespass on public property shall be punishable by a fine of $250
plus costs.
   (B)   Private property. No person shall trespass on private property.
      (1)   TRESPASS means:
         (a)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession;
         (b)   Remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in
lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or
the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of
the premises;
         (c)   Remaining on private property at any time other than during
posted hours of business operation after having been directed to vacate such
premises by a police officer; provided that it shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the
owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises; nor shall it apply
unless hours of business operation are posted upon such premises; and
         (d)   Returning to private property before the posted time of opening
for business operation on the next business day after having been directed to
vacate such premises under the terms of this subsection (B).
      (2)   Trespass on private property shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$250 plus costs.
(Ord. 2018-26, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 5-5C-3 TAMPERING WITH PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously injure, deface or destroy any real or
personal property, either public or private, which is not his own.
   (B)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$500 plus costs.
§ 5-5C-4 OFFENSES CONCERNING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall open or close any valve or meter or
tamper with or destroy, lay or change any conduits, pipes, pipelines, electric
lines or any other equipment or installation of any type whatsoever belonging
to or forming a part of a waterworks system, a natural gas distribution system,
electrical system or any other type of public utilities.
   (B)   No person shall obtain any water, gas, electricity or other type of
service from any public utility, except by express authorization and in the
manner directed by such public utility.
   (C)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 5-5C-5 PETIT LARCENY AND SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   Petit larceny. No person shall commit the offense of petit larceny.
   (B)   Shoplifting. No person shall commit the offense of shoplifting.
Pursuant to 22 O.S. § 1342 an officer may arrest without a warrant any person
he has probable cause for believing has committed shoplifting, when the arrest
is reasonable even if the offense occurred outside his presence.
   (C)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 5-5C-6 FRAUDULENT SCHEMES; BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CREDIT. An arrangement or understanding with the bank or depository for
the payment of such check, draft or order.
      FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK OR CHECKS. Includes checks or orders given for money
or property, or in any cases where the maker receives a benefit or thing of
value, which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to
pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof; the making, drawing, uttering
or delivering of a check, or draft order, payment of which is refused by the
drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the knowledge of
insufficient funds in, or credit with, such bank or other depository; provided
such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee thereof the amount due
thereon, together with the protest fees, within five days from the date the
same is presented for payment; and provided further that said check or order is
presented for payment within 30 days after same is delivered and accepted.
   (B)   Prohibition. Every person who, with intent to cheat and defraud, shall
obtain or attempt to obtain from any person any money, property or valuable
thing, of the value of $500 or less, by means or by use of any trick or
deception, or false or fraudulent representation or statement or pretense, by
means or use of any false or bogus checks, or by any other written or printed
or engraved instrument or spurious coin, shall be guilty of an offense.
   (C)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 5-5C-7 PUMP PIRACY OR LARCENY OF GASOLINE.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall pump gasoline into the gasoline tank of a
vehicle and leave the premises where the gasoline was pumped without making
payment for the gasoline.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-4-2018)
ARTICLE D: OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY AND MORALITY
§ 5-5D-1 LEWD EXPOSURE; PROSTITUTION; MATERIALS HARMFUL TO MINORS.
   (A)   Outrage against public decency.
      (1)   No person shall lewdly expose his person or genitals in any public
place or in any place where there are present other persons to be offended or
annoyed thereby.
      (2)   No person shall willfully or wrongfully commit any act which
grossly disturbs the peace or health or which openly outrages decency or which
is injurious to public morals.
      (3)   The violation of this subsection (A) shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed $500 plus costs.
   (B)   Prostitution.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ANAL INTERCOURSE. Contact between human beings of the genital organs
of one and the anus of another.
         CUNNILINGUS. Any act of oral stimulation of the vulva or clitoris.
         FELLATIO. Any act of oral stimulation of the penis.
         MASTURBATION. Stimulation of the genital organs by manual or other
bodily contact exclusive of sexual intercourse.
         PROSTITUTION. The giving or receiving of the body for sexual
intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness
with any person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing
of value, or the making of any appointment or engagement for sexual
intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness
with any person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing
of value.
      (2)   Offense. It shall be an offense for any person to engage in
prostitution or to solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit
prostitution.
      (3)   Penalty. The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable
by imprisonment up to 60 days or by a fine not to exceed $500 plus costs, or
both.
   (C)   Material harmful to minors.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection (C), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         HARMFUL TO MINORS. The quality of any description, exhibition,
presentation or representation, in whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct,
sexual excitement or sadomasochistic abuse when the material or performance,
taken as a whole, has the following characteristics:
            1.   The average person 18 years of age or older applying
contemporary community standards would find that the material or performance
has a predominant tendency to appeal to a prurient interest in sex to minors;
            2.   The average person 18 years of age or older applying
contemporary community standards would find that the material or performance
depicts or describes nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or
sadomasochistic abuse in a manner that is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community with respect to what is suitable for minors;
and
            3.   The material or performance lacks serious literary,
scientific, artistic or political value for minors.
         KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief
or ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both:
            1.   The character and content of any material or performance which
is reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
            2.   The age of the minor; however, an honest mistake shall
constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
         MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, figure, image, description, motion picture film, record, recording
tape or videotape.
         MINOR. Any unmarried person under the age of 18 years.
         PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, film, videotape, played record,
phonograph or tape, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance or other
exhibition performed or presented to or before an audience of one or more, with
or without consideration.
         PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
legal entity of any kind.
         REASONABLE BONA FIDE ATTEMPT. An attempt to ascertain the true age of
the minor by requiring production of a driver’s license, marriage license,
birth certificate or other governmental or educational identification card or
paper and not relying solely on the oral allegations or apparent age of the
minor.
         SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clothed or naked, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of one so clothed or naked.
         SEXUAL CONDUCT. Act of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse
or physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area
or buttocks.
         SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when
in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      (2)   Offenses. No person having custody, control or supervision of any
commercial establishment shall knowingly:
         (a)   Display material which is harmful to minors in such a way that
minors, as a part of the invited general public, will be exposed to view such
material; provided, however, a person shall be deemed not to have “displayed”
material harmful to minors if the material is kept behind devices commonly
known as “blinder racks” so that the lower two-thirds of the material is not
exposed to view; provided that the bottom of such “blinder rack” is no less
than 60 inches above the surface of the floor immediately adjacent thereto;
         (b)   Sell, furnish, present, distribute, allow to view or otherwise
disseminate to a minor, with or without consideration, any material which is
harmful to minors; or
         (c)   Present to a minor or participate in presenting to a minor, with
or without consideration, any performance which is harmful to a minor.
      (3)   Defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to any prosecution
under this subsection (C) that the material or performance involved was
displayed, presented or disseminated to a minor at a recognized and established
school, church, museum, medical clinic, hospital, public library, governmental
agency, quasi-governmental agency and persons acting in their capacity as
employees or agents of such persons or organizations, and which institution
displays, presents or disseminates such material or performance for a bona fide
governmental, educational or scientific purpose.
      (4)   Penalties. Each day that any violation of this subsection (C)
occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable
as a separate violation. Each act, thing or transaction prohibited by this
subsection (C) shall constitute a separate offense as to each item, issue or
title involved and shall be punishable as same. For the purpose of this
subsection (C), multiple copies of the same identical title, monthly issue,
volume and number issue or other such identical material shall constitute a
single offense. The violation of this subsection (C) shall be punishable by
imprisonment up to 60 days or by a fine not to exceed $500 plus costs, or both.
(Ord. 2017-27, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 5-5D-2 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, the term GAMBLING GAME shall mean
any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette, craps, wheel of fortune or any
banking or percentage game, or any other gambling game or game of chance played
with dice, cards or any other device whatsoever for property, money, checks,
credit or any other representation of value.
   (B)   Gambling games.
      (1)   Except as provided in the Oklahoma Charity Games Act, see 3A O.S.
§§ 401 et seq., no person shall bet or play any gambling game, or bet or play
at any game whatsoever, for money, property, checks, credits or other
representatives of value with cards, dice or any other device which may be
adapted to or used in playing any game of chance or in which chance is a
material element.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable by a fine
not exceeding $100 plus costs, or by imprisonment for a term of not more than
30 days, or by both.
   (C)   Slot machines.
      (1)   Except as provided in the Oklahoma Charity Games Act, see 3A O.S.
§§ 401 et seq., no person shall set up, operate or conduct, or permit to be set
up, operated or conducted, in or about his place of business, whether as owner,
employee or agent, any slot machine for the purpose of having or allowing it to
be played for money, property, checks, credits or for any other representation
of value.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (C) shall be punishable by a fine
of $100 plus costs; or by imprisonment for a term of not more than 30 days, or
by both.
   (D)   Gambling rooms and paraphernalia.
      (1)   Except as provided in the Oklahoma Charity Games Act, see 3A O.S.
§§ 401 et seq., any person who keeps or maintains a gaming room, gaming table
or any pool tickets used for gaming, or knowingly permits a gaming room, gaming
table or any pool tickets to be kept, maintained, played or sold on any
premises occupied or controlled by him and any person having any gaming
paraphernalia in his possession, shall be guilty of an offense.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (D) shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $200 plus costs.
   (E)   Raffles exception.
      (1)   Raffles may be conducted by members of qualified organizations as
long as no members receive compensation for the raffle. The qualified
organization shall not hire or contract with any person, business association,
corporation, partnership, limited partnership or limited liability company to
conduct the raffle, sell the tickets or solicit contributions in connection
with the raffle on behalf of the qualified organization.
      (2)   Qualified organizations that may have raffles are:
         (a)   A church;
         (b)   A public or private school accredited by the Oklahoma Department
of Education or registered by the Oklahoma Board of Education for purposes of
participating in federal programs, or one of its student groups or associations
or one of its parent-teacher associations;
         (c)   Fire departments;
         (d)   Police departments;
         (e)   501 C3 non-profit organizations; or
         (f)   An “organization” as defined 3A O.S. § 402(20).
      (3)   The violation of this subsection (E) shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $500 plus costs.
§ 5-5D-3 DISORDERLY PLACES.
   (A)   Definition. The term DISORDERLY HOUSE shall mean any residence,
building, structure, tent, mobile home or vehicle by which the peace, comfort,
health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the people
therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
      (1)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute or city ordinance;
      (2)   The violation of any ordinance or state statute regulating the
sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic beverages or low point beer;
      (3)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by ordinance or
state statute including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      (4)   The violation of any ordinance or state statute prohibiting
gambling.
   (B)   Maintaining disorderly house.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $750 plus costs.
   (C)   Leasing property for disorderly house.
      (1)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house; and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as
a disorderly house, no person, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
      (2)   The occurrence of any act in any house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle which results in the conviction of
any person in the Municipal Court for a violation of this subsection (C), or of
subsection (B) above, shall, after the lapse of 30 days from such conviction,
constitute notice to all owners, lessors and other persons having control
thereof that such premises are being occupied as a disorderly house. However,
no such notice as contemplated by this subsection (C) shall be effective unless
written notice of such conviction shall have been delivered in person to such
owner, lessee or other person having control over such premises by a duly
authorized officer of the Police Department.
      (3)   Any person required to discontinue any lease or permitted use of
property in subsections (C)(1) or (C)(2) above shall not accept any rents,
fees, profits or consideration of any type from the lessees or other persons or
corporations occupying or in control or possession of the premises at the time
the disorderly house requiring such discontinuance of lease or permitted use
occurred. Each day for which such rent, fee, profit or consideration is
accepted shall constitute a separate offense.
      (4)   The violation of this subsection (C) shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
   (D)   Residents and visitors to disorderly houses.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into or remain in a
disorderly house; provided, however, that in any prosecution for violation of
this subsection (D), the City shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by
direct evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This subsection (D)
shall not apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of their
professional or official duties.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (D) shall have a maximum penalty
of $500 plus costs.
§ 5-5D-4 SOCIAL HOSTS.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person having control of any premises may knowingly
host, permit or allow a gathering to take place on said premises where at least
one minor consumes alcohol or low point beer. To knowingly host includes having
knowledge that a minor has consumed alcohol or low point beer or those
situations where the host should have known that it was likely that a minor
would consume alcohol or low point beer.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GATHERING. A group of three or more persons assembled for a social
activity.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person who by court order is the guardian of a minor.
      PARENT. A natural parent, adoptive parent, a foster parent or a
stepparent of another person.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcohol exclusively between a minor and his parent or legal guardian.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any religious practice that uses
alcohol as authorized by state law.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to premises licensed by the state to
dispense alcohol.
   (D)   Affirmative defense.
      (1)   A person over the age of 21, who has a legal right to control the
premises, who hosts a gathering where alcohol is to be consumed, and has taken
the steps outlined in subsection (D)(2) below to control access to the alcohol,
may assert an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section.
      (2)   To qualify for the affirmative defense, the host must:
         (a)   Verify the age of persons attending the gathering by inspecting
driver’s licenses or other government issued identification cards;
         (b)   Control access to the alcohol to include distinguishing between
guests who can and those who cannot be served alcohol;
         (c)   Control the quantity of alcohol available and the amount
consumed by the guests;
         (d)   Have an adequate number of persons over the age of 21 in
attendance as sponsors, who are not consuming alcohol and who are supervising
the activities at the gathering; and
         (e)   Control access in and out of the gathering.
   (E)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $800 plus costs.
ARTICLE E: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
§ 5-5E-1 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall conduct himself in a riotous or
disorderly manner, or make or cause to be made any loud, or unnecessary, or
offensive noise, or wantonly disturb the quiet of the City or any lawful
assembly of persons or any church or religious meeting or any house, family or
neighborhood or any person.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2013-48, passed 11-19-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions to this article, see 21 O.S. §§ 22, 1311 et seq. and 1362
§ 5-5E-2 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Annoying others. Any person who collects or assembles in crowds and
bodies for unlawful or mischievous purposes in any place in the City to the
annoyance or inconvenience of other persons, or who shall be involved in, or
incite or attempt to incite, a riot, or who shall fail to disperse upon the
command of a police officer or other lawful authority shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (B)   Use of force or violence. No three or more persons shall assemble
together or act in concert to do any act with force and violence against the
property of the City, the person or property of another, or against the peace,
or to the terror of others or make any movement or preparation therefor. No
person shall remain present at the place of such assembly after being warned by
a police officer to disperse.
   (C)   Written waiver. It shall be an affirmative defense to any prosecution
under this section if any person or group has received a written waiver from
the Chief of Police that allows the person or group to collect, assemble,
stand, sit or protest based on the exercising of First Amendment rights
protected by the Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, speech or
assembly.
   (D)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2013-48, passed 11-19-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1311 and 1321.1—1321.10
§ 5-5E-3 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Obstructing free passage. Any person who collects or assembles and
stands or sits in crowds or loiters about or hinders, obstructs, impedes or
blocks the free and uninterrupted passage on any sidewalk, street, alley or
driveway or in front of any place of business, or in any hall, stairway,
office, building or any other public place and who fails to disperse upon the
command of a police officer or other lawful authority shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (B)   Written waiver. It shall be an affirmative defense to any prosecution
under this section if any person or group has received a written waiver from
the Chief of Police that allows the person or group to collect, assemble,
stand, sit or protest based on the exercising of First Amendment rights
protected by the Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, speech or
assembly.
   (C)   First Amendment limited use waiver. Individuals who desire to collect,
assemble, stand, sit or protest as part of the exercise of their First
Amendment rights protected by the United States Constitution, such as the free
exercise of religion, speech or assembly may seek a written waiver from the
Chief of Police for the closing of Park Street between Independence and Grand
for a few hours if the public forum venue is available and not already reserved
by another group.
   (D)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $300 plus costs.
(Ord. 2017-27, passed 12-5-2017; Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 5-5E-4 JOSTLING PEOPLE IN PUBLIC.
   Any person who shall be found jostling or roughly crowding people
unnecessarily in a public place by being offensive to public order shall be
guilty of an offense. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $100 plus costs.
(Ord. 2017-27, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 5-5E-5 PUBLIC PROFANITY AND OBSCENE GESTURES.
   Any person who utters any indecent, lewd or filthy words, or uses any
threatening language toward any other person, or makes any obscene gesture to
or about any other person in any public place which is likely to provoke the
average person to retaliation and thereby cause a breach of the peace shall be
guilty of an offense. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $100 plus costs.
(Ord. 2017-27, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 5-5E-6 FIGHTS OR QUARRELS.
   No person shall wrangle, quarrel, fight or challenge another to fight within
the City, where such actions disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood,
family or person. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $100 plus costs.
(Ord. 2017-27, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 5-5E-7 PUBLIC URINATION.
   (A)   Prohibition. No persons shall urinate or defecate in any public place
other than a public restroom.
   (B)   Violation. The violations of this section shall be punishable by a
fine of not to exceed $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2017-27, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 5-5E-8 SOUND AMPLIFICATION.
   (A)   Advertising by loudspeaker, amplifying device. No person shall make,
cause to be made or persist in making, in or upon any street, sidewalk or
alley, or upon any private property, any loud, unnecessary, unusual or
objectionable noise which disturbs the public peace or annoys the inhabitants
of the City by maintaining or operating any music box, phonograph, piano or any
other music device, or any radio, phonograph amplifier, radio amplifier or
loudspeaker or other amplifying device, for the purpose of attracting the
attention of persons upon the public streets to any business or trade, or for
the purpose of advertising goods, wares or merchandise to the public, except as
otherwise provided in this section. Such loud, unnecessary, unusual or
objectionable noise which disturbs the public peace or annoys the inhabitants,
and the maintenance or operation thereof, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Exemption. The provisions of this section shall not apply to music
furnished by any person to the exclusive enjoyment of persons actually on the
premises or within the place of business of such person; provided the music so
furnished shall not be sufficiently loud or offensive to annoy the public
generally or to disturb the peace; provided further, that no loudspeaker
located upon any premises outside the walls of any building located thereon
shall be operated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   Violation. Violation of this section shall have a maximum fine of $200
plus costs.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 5-22-2018)
ARTICLE F: OFFENSES AGAINST GOVERNMENT
§ 5-5F-1 OBSTRUCTING OR INTERFERING WITH OFFICIAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall oppose, obstruct or otherwise interfere
with a public officer in the discharge of his official duties.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5F-1) (Ord. 2013-49, passed 11-19-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 491 and 540
§ 5-5F-2 PROVIDING FALSE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Prohibition. Any person who knowingly provides false information to a
police officer, Code Enforcement Official or court personnel or initiates
prosecution by signing a complaint, or by other means, based on information
known, or which should have been known after reasonable inquiry, to be false
shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5F-2) (Ord. 2013-49, passed 11-19-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 491 and 540
§ 5-5F-3 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION OF. This term, in addition to its common meaning,
signification and connotation, shall mean:
         (a)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest; and/or
         (b)   Any violence toward, or any resistance or opposition to, the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he is incarcerated in jail.
      RESISTING ARREST. The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity and authorized by
law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows, or has reason to know, that
the person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct
an arresting officer acting in his official capacity, as described in the
defined terms appearing in subsection (A) above.
   (C)   Violation. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5F-3) (Ord. 2013-49, passed 11-19-2013)
§ 5-5F-4 ESCAPE.
   (A)   Aiding in escape.
      (1)   No person shall set at liberty or rescue or attempt by force or in
any other manner to set at liberty any person who is under the legal custody
and charge of an officer.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (A) shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs, or by imprisonment for up to 60 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Escape from custody.
      (1)   No person held in custody by any peace officer shall escape from
such officer or break out of jail.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs, or by imprisonment for up to 60 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5-5F-4) (Ord. 2013-49, passed 11-19-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 436, 437, 441 and 521
§ 5-5F-5 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall impersonate any officer or employee of
the City or falsely represent himself to be such an officer or employee or
exercise any duties, functions and powers of any such officer or employee.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs, or by imprisonment for up to 60 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5-5F-5) (Ord. 2013-49, passed 11-19-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 263, 264 and 1533
§ 5-5F-6 MISUSE OF 911 SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall use the 911 emergency telephone system for any purpose
other than to report an emergency.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5F-6) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 5-5F-7 FALSE REPORTING OF AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   False reporting prohibited. No person shall contact a public agency to
report an emergency when no such emergency exists.
   (B)   Activation prohibited. No person shall cause the activation by any
means of an alarm, the purpose of which to communicate or indicate a specific
emergency situation, when no emergency exists.
   (C)   Public agency defined. PUBLIC AGENCY means the city, town, county,
municipal corporation, public district, public trust, public authority or any
other entity, public or private, located within this state which provides, has
authority to provide or is licensed to provide firefighting, law enforcement,
ambulance, emergency medical or other emergency services.
   (D)   Violation. Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed $500 plus costs. (Prior Code, § 5-5F-7) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-
2018)
ARTICLE G: WEAPONS, FIREWORKS AND RELATED OFFENSES
§ 5-5G-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN. A loaded or unloaded pistol carried hidden from the
detection and view of another person either upon or about the person, in a
purse or other container belonging to the person, or in a vehicle which is
operated by the person or in which the person is riding as a passenger.
   PISTOL.
      (1)   Any derringer, revolver or semiautomatic firearm which:
         (a)   Has an overall length of less than 16 inches and is able to be
fully concealed from detection and view;
         (b)   Is capable of discharging a projectile composed of any material
which may reasonably be expected to be able to cause lethal injury;
         (c)   Is designed to be held and fired by the use of a single hand;
and/or
         (d)   Uses either gunpowder, gas or any means of rocket propulsion to
discharge the projectile.
      (2)   The term PISTOL shall not apply to homemade or imitation pistols,
flare guns, underwater fishing guns or blank pistols.
   RIFLE. Any firearm capable of discharging a projectile composed of any
material which may reasonably be expected to be able to cause lethal injury,
with a barrel or barrels more than 16 inches in length, and using either
gunpowder, gas or any means of rocket propulsion, but not to include archery
equipment, flare guns or underwater fishing guns. In addition, any rifle
capable of firing “shot” but primarily designed to fire single projectiles will
be regarded as a RIFLE.
   SHOTGUN. Any firearm capable of discharging a series of projectiles of any
material which may reasonably be expected to be able to cause lethal injury,
with a barrel or barrels more than 18 inches in length, and using either
gunpowder, gas or any means of rocket propulsion, but not to include any weapon
so designed with a barrel less than 18 inches in length. In addition, any
SHOTGUN capable of firing single projectiles but primarily designed to fire
multiple projectiles such as “shot” will be regarded as a SHOTGUN.
(1994 Code, § 18-131) (Prior Code, § 5-5G-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions to this article, see 21 O.S. §§ 1272 et seq.
   Similar provisions to this section, see 21 O.S. § 1290.2
§ 5-5G-2 DISCHARGE OF WEAPON; THROWING FIREBALLS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. No person shall discharge any handgun, pistol, rifle,
shotgun, firearm, air gun, BB gun or throw any fireballs in the City.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of subsection (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   City employees, agents for the City and police and other law
enforcement officers, while engaged in the lawful performance of their official
duties;
      (2)   Members of the armed forces of the United States or the National
Guard engaged in their official functions;
      (3)   The discharge of any shotgun, using pellets with no larger than
number 2 diameter birdshot, air gun or BB gun upon any land zoned agriculture,
except for any discharge of such weapons occurring within 300 feet of any
adjoining or adjacent property;
      (4)   Persons while they are exercising their rights of defense of self,
others or property;
      (5)   Any firearm range authorized by the City Manager;
      (6)   The discharge of any shotgun, firing a single rifled slug or black
powder rifle upon any land zoned agriculture, during the days of any official
deer hunting season as established by the state hunting regulations, as such
regulations currently exist, or as may be hereinafter amended, except for any
discharge of a shotgun or black powder rifle occurring within 300 feet of any
adjoining or adjacent property; or
      (7)   The discharge of a weapon, loaded with blanks, to disperse fowl
from property as part of wildlife control as authorized by the City Manager.
   (C)   Seizure of weapons. The Police Department shall seize the firearm,
handgun, pistol, rifle, shotgun, BB gun or air gun used upon the arrest of, or
issuance of a citation to, any person for violating subsection (A) above. Upon
conviction of such a person of a violation of subsection (A) above, such
firearm, BB gun or air gun shall be forfeited to the City unless an order is
signed by a Municipal Judge ordering the release of the firearm back to such
person.
   (D)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5G-2) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 5-5G-3 RECKLESS CONDUCT WITH FIREARM OR BOW AND/OR ARROW.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in reckless
conduct while having in his possession any shotgun; rifle; or pistol, or bow,
crossbow and/or arrow or bolt, such actions consisting of creating a situation
of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great bodily harm to another,
and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety of another person.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs or by imprisonment for up to 60 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5-5G-3) (Ord. 2014-10, passed 4-6-2014)
§ 5-5G-4 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 5-5G-5 SALE, POSSESSION, USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition. FIREWORKS is defined as any explosive device which
contains 50 milligrams of Class C powder. FIREWORKS includes, but is not
limited to: firecrackers, roman candles, skyrockets, stick rockets or rocket
fired toys.
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, possess, use
or distribute fireworks.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   It shall be an affirmative defense against prosecution under this
section if the person charged had been issued a permit by the City, as
authorized by the International Fire Code.
      (2)   The provision of subsection (B) above shall not prohibit persons
from transporting fireworks in their unopened, original packaging in a motor
vehicle.
   (D)   Seizure of fireworks. Any fireworks found in violation of this section
shall be seized and, upon conviction, such fireworks shall be forfeited to the
City and destroyed.
   (E)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5G-5) (Ord. 2014-10, passed 4-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-110
§ 5-5G-6 HANDGUN POSSESSION.
   (A)   Weapon notification.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to identify
the fact that the person is in actual possession of a concealed handgun
pursuant to the authority of the Oklahoma Self-Defense Act, see 21 O.S. §§
1290.1 et seq. when the person first comes into contact with any law
enforcement officer during the course of any arrest, detainment or routine
traffic stop. Said identification to the law enforcement officer shall be made
at the first opportunity.
         (a)   For the purposes of this subsection (A), any person who is in
possession of a handgun has an affirmative duty to inform the officer of the
handgun whether the officer has made inquiry or not.
         (b)   No person shall be required to identify himself as a handgun
licensee when no handgun is in the possession of the person or in any vehicle
in which the person is driving or is a passenger.
      (2)   A violation of this subsection (A) shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $100 plus costs.
   (B)   Possession of license required.
      (1)   A person shall be required to have possession of his valid handgun
license and a valid state driver’s license or a state photo identification at
all times when in possession of an authorized handgun. The person shall display
the handgun license on demand of a law enforcement officer; provided, however,
that in the absence of reasonable and articulable suspicion of other criminal
activity, an individual carrying an unconcealed or concealed handgun shall not
be disarmed or physically restrained unless the individual fails to display a
valid handgun license in response to that demand.
      (2)   If the person, within ten days of his arrest, shows proof to the
Court of a valid handgun license and a state driver’s license or photo
identification card issued to such person, the Court shall dismiss the charge
upon payment of court costs.
      (3)   A violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than $100 plus costs, nor more than $250 plus costs.
   (C)   Moving traffic violations and weapons. Any person stopped pursuant to
a moving traffic violation who is transporting a loaded pistol in the motor
vehicle without a valid handgun license (authorized by the Oklahoma Self-
Defense Act, see 21 O.S. §§ 1290.1 et seq., or valid license from another
state) whether the loaded firearm is concealed or unconcealed in the vehicle
shall be issued a traffic citation in the amount of $70 plus costs for
transporting a firearm improperly.
(Prior Code, § 5-5G-6) (Ord. 2014-10, passed 4-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1289.13A and 1290.8
   Oklahoma Self-Defense Act, see 21 O.S. § 643
ARTICLE H: DRUG AND ALCOHOL RELATED OFFENSES
§ 5-5H-1 DRUGS AND RELATED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCE. Shall be as defined in 63 O.S. § 2-101.
      MARIJUANA. All parts of a plant of the genius cannabis, whether growing
or not; the seeds of a plant of that type; the resin extracted from a part of a
plant of that type; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of a plant of that type or of its seeds or resin. MARIJUANA does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks,
oils or cake made from the seeds of the plant, or any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks,
except the resin extracted from the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination.
   (B)   Possession of illegal drugs.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess
any controlled dangerous substance other than marijuana unless such substance
was obtained directly, or pursuant to a valid prescription or order from a
practitioner, while acting in the course of his professional practice, or
except as authorized by state law.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
   (C)   Possession of marijuana without a state-issued medical marijuana
license.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess
marijuana without an state-issued medical marijuana license.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (C) shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $400 plus costs and shall not be subject to imprisonment for
the offense.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer who comes in contact with a person, who
is not in possession of a state-issued medical marijuana license, who is in
possession of up to one and a half ounces of marijuana and who can state a
medical condition, and the law enforcement officer is satisfied as to the
identity of the person, as well as any other pertinent information the law
enforcement officer deems necessary, shall issue to the person a written
citation containing a notice to answer the charge against the person in the
City’s Municipal Court. Upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator to answer as specified in the citation, the law enforcement officer
shall release the person upon personal recognizance and not confiscate the
medical marijuana unless there has been a violation of another provision of
law.
      (4)   If a person who has been charged with this subsection (C), has a
state medical marijuana license that was valid at the time the person was
issued a citation under this subsection (C), the Court may order the medical
marijuana returned to said person.
   (D)   Legal possession of marijuana with a state-issued marijuana license.
      (1)   A person in possession of a state-issued medical marijuana license
may legally possess:
         (a)   Up to three ounces of marijuana on their person;
         (b)   Six mature marijuana plants;
         (c)   Six seedling plants;
         (d)   One ounce of concentrated marijuana;
         (e)   Seventy-two ounces of edible marijuana; and
         (f)   Eight ounces of marijuana in their residence.
      (2)   Patient rights. The rights to possess the amount of marijuana,
marijuana products and plants listed in subsection (D)(1) above are cumulative
and a duly licensed individual may possess at one time the totality of the
items listed therein as long as the individual holds a valid state patient
medical marijuana license.
      (3)   Caregiver rights. A valid state caregiver medical marijuana license
shall provide the caregiver with the right to possess the amount of marijuana
listed in subsection (D)(1) above for each of the caregiver’s patients under
their care and are allowed to deliver marijuana and products to their
authorized patients pursuant to the Medical Marijuana and Patient Protection
Act, see 63 O.S. §§ 427.1 et seq., pursuant to 63 O.S. § 427.11. However, an
individual caregiver shall be limited to exercising the marijuana cultivation
rights of no more than five licensed patients.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-20-2019; Ord. 2019-19, passed 9-13-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions to this article, see
Title 3, Chapter 2
§ 5-5H-2 ALCOHOL RESTRICTIONS; INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol or
spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It does
not include wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced as
denatured in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined by 37A O.S. and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings.
      LICENSEE. Any person holding a license under the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act, see 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq., and any agent, servant or
employee of such licensee while in the performance of any act or duty in
connection with the licensed business or on the licensed premises.
   (B)   Public intoxication.
      (1)   No person shall be drunk or intoxicated on any public or private
road, or in any public conveyance, or any public place or building, or at any
public gathering, from drinking or consuming any alcoholic beverage,
intoxicating substance, intoxicating compound or from inhalation of glue, paint
or other intoxicating substance. No person shall be drunk or intoxicated from
any cause and shall disturb the peace of any person.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $10 nor more than $100 plus costs.
   (C)   Consumption of alcohol.
      (1)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in any street, alley
or other public place, except:
         (a)   As authorized as part of a special event pursuant to §
1-15-9 or on the premises of a licensee of the ABLE Commission that is
authorized to sell alcohol by the individual drink; or
         (b)   Wine and beer in city owned parks.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (C) shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $10 nor more than $100 plus costs.
   (D)   Possession of alcohol.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person under 21 years of age to be in
the possession of alcohol while such person is upon any public street, road or
highway or in any public building or place.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (D) shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $100 plus costs.
   (E)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   No licensee who provides alcoholic beverages for consumption on
premises may open before 6:00 a.m. or close later than 2:00 a.m.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (E) shall be punishable by a fine
of $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2018-23, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. 2020-03, passed 2-20-2020; Ord. 2021-08,
passed 6-15-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Consumption of alcohol, see 37A O.S. § 6-101(a)(8)
   Hours of operation, see 37A O.S. § 4-101
   Possession of alcohol, see 10A O.S. § 2-8-222
§ 5-5H-3 SMELLING, INHALING OF GLUE OR OTHER SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person deliberately to
smell, inhale, breathe, drink or otherwise consume any compound, liquid,
chemical, drug or any other substance containing any ketones, aldehydes,
organic acetones, ether, chlorinated hydrocarbons or metallic powders, such as
gasoline, glue, fingernail polish, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope, paint
dispensed from pressurized containers or any other substance or combination
thereof containing solvents releasing toxic vapors, with the intent to cause
conditions of intoxication, inebriation, excitement, elation, stupefaction,
paralysis, irrationality, dulling of the brain or nervous system, or any other
changing, distorting or disturbing of the eyesight, thinking process, judgment,
balance or coordination of such person.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of subsection (A) above shall not pertain
to:
      (1)   Any person who inhales, breathes, drinks or otherwise consumes such
material or substance pursuant to the direction or prescription of any licensed
doctor, physician, surgeon, dentist or podiatrist; or
      (2)   The consumption of intoxicating liquor.
   (C)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2017-26, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 5-5H-4 SMOKING AND VAPING IN PUBLIC AREAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EDUCATIONAL FACILITY. A building owned, leased or under the control of a
public or private school system, college or university.
      HEALTH FACILITY. An entity which provides health services, including, but
not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, long term care facilities, kidney
disease treatment centers, health maintenance organizations and ambulatory
treatment centers.
      INCIDENTAL PUBLIC ACCESS. A place of business that has only an occasional
person, who is not an employee, present at the business to transact business or
make a delivery. It does not include businesses that depend on walk-in
customers for any part of their business.
      INDOOR WORKPLACE. Any indoor place of employment or employment type
service for or at the request of another individual or individuals, or any
public or private entity, whether part time or full time, and whether for
compensation or not. Such services shall include, without limitation, any
service performed by an owner, employee, independent contractor, agent,
partner, proprietor, manager, officer, director, apprentice, trainee,
associate, servant or volunteer. An INDOOR WORKPLACE includes work areas,
employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias,
hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees and all space between a
floor and ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or
windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows, stairways or
the like. The provisions of this section shall apply to such INDOOR WORKPLACE
at any given time, whether or not work is being performed.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed indoor area where individuals other than
employees are invited or permitted.
      RESTAURANT. Any eating establishment regardless of seating capacity.
      STAND ALONE BAR or CIGAR BAR. An establishment that derives more than
sixty percent (60%) of its gross receipts, subject to verification by competent
authority from the sale of alcoholic beverages and low point beer and no person
under 21 years of age is admitted, except for members of a musical band
employed or hired as provided in 63 O.S. § 1-1522 and that is not located
within, and does not share any common entryway, or common indoor area with, any
other enclosed indoor workplace, including a restaurant.
   (B)   Prohibition. Use of tobacco, nicotine, marijuana or other lawful
products consumed in a smoked or vaporized manner is prohibited in any indoor
place used by or open to the public, public transportation or any indoor
workplace.
   (C)   Exceptions. Subsection (B) above does not apply to:
      (1)   Stand alone bars and cigar bars;
      (2)   The room or rooms where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games;
      (3)   Up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the guestrooms at a hotel or
other lodging establishment;
      (4)   Workplaces where only the owner or operator of the workplace, or
the immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the
workplace and the workplace has only incidental public access;
      (5)   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access;
      (6)   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers;
      (7)   Workplaces within private residences, except that smoking tobacco
or marijuana or vaping marijuana shall not be allowed inside any private
residence that is used as a licensed childcare facility during hours of
operation;
      (8)   Medical research or treatment centers, if tobacco smoking or
marijuana smoking or vaping is integral to the research or treatment;
      (9)   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the armed forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to §§ 501(c)(8) and (c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §§
501(c)(8), (c)(10) or (c)(19), when such facility is utilized exclusively by
its members and their families and for the conduct of post or organization of
non-profit operations except during an event or activity which is open to the
public;
      (10)   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant; provided tobacco or
marijuana smoking or vaping marijuana smoking shall not be allowed within 15
feet of any exterior public doorway or any air intake of a restaurant; or
      (11)   Retail tobacco stores predominately engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental and which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption on
the premises.
   (D)   Smoking rooms. An employer not otherwise restricted from doing so may
elect to provide smoking rooms where no work is performed except for cleaning
and maintenance during the time the room is not in use for smoking; provided
each smoking room is fully enclosed and exhausted directly to the outside in
such a manner that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area. No
exhaust from a smoking room shall be located within 15 feet of any entrance,
exit or air intake.
   (E)   Smoking area requirements. If smoking is to be permitted in any space
exempted in subsection (C) above or in a smoking room pursuant to subsection
(D) above such smoking room must either occupy the entire enclosed indoor space
or, if it shares the enclosed space with any nonsmoking areas, the smoking
space shall be fully enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with no air
from the smoking space circulated to any nonsmoking area, and under negative
air pressure so that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area
when a door to an adjacent nonsmoking area is opened. Air from a smoking room
shall not be exhausted within 15 feet of any entrance, exit or air intake. Any
employer may choose a more restrictive smoking policy, including being totally
smoke free.
   (F)   Restaurants. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section,
until March 1, 2006, restaurants may have designated smoking and nonsmoking
areas or may be designated as being a totally nonsmoking area. Beginning March
1, 2006, restaurants shall be totally nonsmoking or may provide nonsmoking
areas and designated smoking room. Food and beverage may be served in such
designated smoking rooms which shall be in a location which is fully enclosed,
directly exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so smoke cannot
escape when a door is opened, and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of
the building. No exhaust from such room shall be located within 25 feet of any
entrance, exit or air intake. Such room shall be subject to verification for
compliance with the provisions of this subsection (F) by the Oklahoma
Department of Health.
   (G)   Posting of sign or decal. The person who owns or operates a place
where tobacco smoking or use is prohibited by law shall be responsible for
posting a sign or decal, at least four inches by two inches in size, at each
entrance to the building indicating that the place is smoke free or tobacco
free. Responsibility for posting signs or decals shall be as follows:
      (1)   In privately owned facilities, the owner or lessee, if a lessee is
in possession of the facilities, shall be responsible;
      (2)   In corporately owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility involved shall be responsible; and
      (3)   In publicly owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of the
facility shall be responsible.
   (H)   Entrance or exit. No smoking of tobacco or marijuana or vaping of
marijuana shall be allowed within 25 feet of an entrance or exit of a city
owned building.
   (I)   Offense. Any person knowingly violating these provisions shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $100 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5H-4) (Ord. 2013-51, passed 11-19-2013; Ord. 2021-19, passed
11-2-2021)
§ 5-5H-5 FURNISHING OF TOBACCO OR VAPOR PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF
AGE.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings derived from the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act, 63
O.S. §§ 1-229.12 et seq., and ascribed to them in this section.
      PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license of identification only or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 21
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Noncombustible products, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit
or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce a
vapor in a solution or other form. It shall include any vapor cartridge or
other container with or without nicotine or other form that is intended to be
used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe or similar product or device and any vapor cartridge or other
container of a solution, that may or may not contain nicotine, that is intended
to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe or electronic device. It does not include any
products regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration under 21
U.S.C.A. §§ 351 et seq.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in
any manner any tobacco or vapor products to any person under the age of 21, or
to purchase in any manner a tobacco product or vapor product on behalf of any
person under the age of 21.
   (C)   Exception. It shall not be unlawful for an employee under 21 years of
age to handle tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor products when
required in the performance of the employee’s duties.
   (D)   Defense. It is a defense to this offense, if a person engaged in the
sale or distribution of tobacco or vapor products, was shown and reasonably
relied upon proof of age who sold the tobacco product or vapor products to a
person under 21 years of age, demanded, and was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age. For purposes of the defense, reasonable reliance upon proof
of age is shown when the person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
or vapor products confirmed the validity of the proof of age presented by the
purchaser by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction device.
Provided, however, that this defense is not available if the seller failed to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and
picture appearing on the proof of age used was that of the person who presented
it.
   (E)   Penalty. The violation of this section shall be punishable:
      (1)   By a fine of up to $100 plus costs, for the first offense;
      (2)   By a fine of up to $200 plus costs, for the second offense, within
a two-year period following conviction of the first offense; and
      (3)   By a fine of up to $300 plus costs, for subsequent offenses within
a two-year period following the second conviction of the offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5H-5) (Ord. 2022-19, passed 8-16-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 63 O.S. § 1-229.13
§ 5-5H-6 SMOKING AND VAPING WITHIN CITY PARKS.
   (A)   No smoking or vaping shall be allowed within 25 feet of playground
equipment, amusements, swings, slides, ball fields, bleachers and stands for
spectators, in any public park.
   (B)   This does not preclude smoking or vaping in the passive portion of the
park where none of these active use amenities are located unless during a
special event the passive space is temporarily being used for active amenities
such as Christmas in the Park.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than $100 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5H-6) (Ord. 2022-19, passed 8-16-2022)
§ 5-5H-7 SMOKING AND VAPING ALONG THE TRAIL SYSTEM.
   (A)   No smoking or vaping is allowed within 25 feet of the trail head or
benches along the trail.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than $100 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5H-7) (Ord. 2022-19, passed 8-16-2022)
CHAPTER 6: MINORS
Section
ARTICLE A: TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
   [Reserved]
ARTICLE B: CURFEW
   
5-6B-1   Definition
   
5-6B-2   Curfew hours
   
5-6B-3   Exceptions
   
5-6B-4   Violations; parental responsibility
ARTICLE C: TRUANCY
   
5-6C-1   School attendance required
   
5-6C-2   Exceptions
   
5-6C-3   Violations
ARTICLE A: TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
[Reserved]
Cross-reference:
   Under age tobacco-related offenses, see
Title 5, Chapter 5 , Article H
Editor’s note:
   This article has been repealed by Ord. 2022-19, passed 8-16-2022.
ARTICLE B: CURFEW
§ 5-6B-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years, but shall not include any
person who is legally emancipated or certified as an adult.
(1994 Code, § 18-171) (Prior Code, § 5-6B-1)
§ 5-6B-2 CURFEW HOURS.
   No minor shall loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds,
public places and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment,
vacant lots or other unsupervised places, to include, but not be limited to:
driving, riding or parking any motorized or nonmotorized vehicle in or upon the
public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places, between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, of every night and morning in
the week, except Friday and Saturday nights and the following morning, and
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday nights and 6:00 a.m. of the
following morning.
(1994 Code, § 18-171) (Prior Code, § 5-6B-2)
§ 5-6B-3 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of §
5-6B-2.
   (A)   Accompanied by parent or guardian. At any time, if the minor is
accompanied by his parent, legal guardian or adult person having care and
custody of the minor, or other person who has reached the age of 21 years and
who is specifically approved by the minor’s parent, legal guardian or adult
person having care and custody of the minor, which person shall be responsible
for the acts of the minor.
   (B)   Errand. Until the hour of 12:00 a.m. on any day of the week, if the
minor is on an errand as directed by his parent, legal guardian or adult person
having care and custody of the minor.
   (C)   Legally employed. If the minor is legally employed, for the period
from one-half hour before to one-half hour after work, while going directly
between his home and place of employment. This exception shall also apply if
the minor is in a public place during curfew hours in the course of his
employment. To come under this exception, the minor must be carrying a written
statement from the employer attesting to the place and hours of employment.
   (D)   School, other activities. If the minor is coming directly home from a
school activity or an activity of a religious or other voluntary association,
or an organized team sporting event with an adult coach present. This exception
will apply for one-half hour after the completion of such event. If the event
does not have a fixed, publicly known time at which it will end, the sponsoring
organization must register the event with the Police Department at least 24
hours in advance, informing it of the time such event is scheduled to begin,
the place at which it shall be held, the time at which it shall end and the
name of the sponsoring organization.
   (E)   First Amendment purposes. If the minor is exercising First Amendment
rights protected by the Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion,
speech or assembly, provided the minor first has given notice to the Chief of
Police by delivering a written communication signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent of the minor which specifies when, where, in what
manner and for what First Amendment purpose the minor will be on the streets at
night during the curfew period.
(1994 Code, § 18-171) (Prior Code, § 5-6B-3)
§ 5-6B-4 VIOLATIONS; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Arrest; Juvenile Court.
      (1)   Taking minor into custody. A police officer who has probable cause
to believe that a minor is in violation of this article shall arrest the minor
and take such minor to the police station. At that time, the minor’s parent,
legal guardian or adult person having the care and custody of the minor shall
be immediately contacted. When the parent, legal guardian or adult person
having care and custody of such minor arrives at the police station, or when
such minor is taken to the residence of such parent, legal guardian or adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, such parent, legal guardian or
adult person having the care and custody of the minor shall be given a copy of
this section and the notice, as provided in subsection (B) below.
      (2)   Appear in Juvenile Court. The minor and parent, legal guardian or
adult person having the care and custody of the minor shall be required to sign
a document (“promise to appear”) evidencing their promise that the minor and
parent, legal guardian or adult person having the care and custody of the minor
will appear before the Municipal Juvenile Court at the date and time that the
minor has been scheduled to appear before the Municipal Juvenile Court. The
minor and parent, legal guardian or adult person having the care and custody of
the minor shall be given a copy of the promise to appear.
      (3)   Refer to Youth and Family Services. If no such parent, legal
guardian or adult person having the care and custody of the minor takes custody
of the minor, the minor may be referred to Youth and Family Services pursuant
to state law, released to a responsible adult or relatives or such other action
as the police officials deem necessary.
   (B)   Charging minor with violation; notice to parent. In the case of a
violation of this article by a minor, the minor shall be charged with violation
of curfew. In addition, the police shall send the minor’s parent, legal
guardian or adult person having the care and custody of the minor, written
notice of the violation, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
serving such notice personally on such person, warning them that further
violations may result in the filing of a charge against such parent, legal
guardian or adult person having the care and custody of the minor for a
violation of subsection (C) below.
   (C)   Parental responsibility. No parent, legal guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of a minor shall permit such minor to
violate the provisions of §
5-6B-2. In any prosecution for violation of the provisions of this article,
conviction of the minor for violation of §
5-6B-2, together with proof that the parent, legal guardian or adult person
having the care and custody of such minor was given written notice of a
previous violation of §
5-6B-2, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the parent,
legal guardian or adult person having the care and custody of such minor
permitted such minor to violate §
5-6B-2.
   (D)   Penalty. The violation of this article shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $200 plus costs for a first offense and a fine of up to $400 plus
costs for second and subsequent offenses.
(Prior Code, § 5-6B-4) (Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-4-2018)
ARTICLE C: TRUANCY
§ 5-6C-1 SCHOOL ATTENDANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for a parent of a minor
who is over the age of six years and under the age of 18 years to neglect or
refuse to cause or compel such minor to attend and comply with the rules of the
school in which the minor is enrolled.
   (B)   Refusal of minor to attend school. It shall be unlawful for any minor,
who is over the age of 12 years and under the age of 18 years and who has not
finished four years of high school work, to neglect or refuse to attend and
comply with the rules of the school in which the minor is enrolled.
(1994 Code, § 18-171.1) (Prior Code, § 5-6C-1) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 5-6C-2 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of §
5-6C-1:
   (A)   Mental or physical disability. If any such minor is prevented from
attending school by reason of mental or physical disability as determined by
the Board of Education;
   (B)   Emergency situation. If any such minor is excused by the school from
attendance;
   (C)   Excused by school and parent. If any such minor who has attained his
or her sixteenth birthday is excused from attending school by written, joint
agreement between the school and the parent, guardian or custodian of the
minor;
   (D)   Observing religious holy days. Exception for minor observing religious
a holy day who receives an excused absence from school; or
   (E)   Home school. If the minor is receiving education by other means
consistent with 70 O.S. § 10-105.
(1994 Code, § 18-171.1) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 5-6C-2) (Ord. 2020-05,
passed 5-19-2020)
§ 5-6C-3 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Separate offense each day. Each day the minor remains out of school
after a warning has been given to the parent, guardian, custodian, minor or
other person or the child has been ordered to school by the Court shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Penalty. The violation of this article, for the first offense, shall
be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 plus costs; the second offense
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $100 plus costs; the third or
subsequent offense shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $250 plus
costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-6C-3) (Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-4-2018; Ord. 2020-05, passed 5-
19-2020)
CHAPTER 7: ANIMAL WELFARE
Section
   
5-7-1   Definitions
   
5-7-2   Animal Welfare Division
   
5-7-3   Dogs and cats registration
   
5-7-4   Rabies quarantine
   
5-7-5   Impoundment of animals
   
5-7-6   Adoption regulations
   
5-7-7   Dogs and cats running at large
   
5-7-8   Shooting authorized
   
5-7-9   No leash dog areas
   
5-7-10   Dangerous dog
   
5-7-11   Violation of conditions for keeping dangerous dog
   
5-7-12   Required dangerous dog notifications
   
5-7-13   Concealment of dogs
   
5-7-14   Keeping diseased animals
   
5-7-15   Keeping of swine prohibited
   
5-7-16   Potbellied pigs
   
5-7-17   Keeping livestock prohibited
   
5-7-18   Livestock at large
   
5-7-19   Roosters prohibited
   
5-7-20   Outdoor shelters
   
5-7-21   Cruelty to animals
   
5-7-22   Neglect of animals
   
5-7-23   Animals left in vehicles
   
5-7-24   Dumping of animals
   
5-7-25   Loud animals
   
5-7-26   Sale of dogs or cats
   
5-7-27   Conditional, limited, hen waiver
Statutory reference:
   General authority of city to regulate animals, see 11 O.S. § 22-115
§ 5-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Any and all types of animals.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animals and not
under the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
   CURRENTLY VACCINATED. Properly immunized by or under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian with an ant rabies vaccine licensed and approved by the
United States Department of Agriculture for use in that animal species. Vaccine
must have been given at appropriate time interval(s) for the age of the animal
and type of vaccine administered.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that inflicts severe injury on a human being or a
dog, without provocation, or has previously bitten a human being, without
provocation, and thereafter aggressively bites or attacks a human or a dog,
without provocation.
   EXPOSURE TO RABIES. A bite or physical contact with the saliva or other
potentially infectious tissues from an animal confirmed or suspected of being
infected with rabies.
   FOWL. Chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, guineas and game birds.
   HOME QUARANTINE. Confinement of the animal at the owner’s residence where
the residence has the necessary fencing, shelter and supervision to ensure the
animal will be confined, isolated from the public, observed and has adequate
care. This QUARANTINE also requires an examination by a licensed veterinarian
on the first and last day of confinement.
   KEEP OR HARBOR. To maintain, possess, control and use.
   LAWFULLY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY. A person shall be considered to be lawfully
upon the private property of the owner of a dog when he is on the property in
the performance of any duty imposed upon the persons by the laws of the state,
or its political subdivisions, the City or by the laws of the United States, or
the postal regulations of the United States or when reading meters or making
repairs to any public utility or service located on the premises, or when
working on the property upon the invitation, either express or implied, of the
owners or lessee of such property, or when on the property for any other lawful
purpose.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, swine, sheep, horses, mules, donkeys, llamas, alpacas,
goats and fowl.
   NEUTER. To castrate a male animal in order to render it unable to reproduce.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing,
harboring, keeping, having an interest in or having control or custody of an
animal.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE FOR A DANGEROUS DOG. While on the owner’s property, a
dangerous dog shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure with at least 150 square feet of space for each dog
kept there which is over six months of age, and which is suitable to prevent
the entry of children, and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such
pen or structure shall have a secure top and secure sides and shall provide
protection from the elements for the dog.
   SELLER OF RABIES VACCINE. Includes the owner of the business, the manager of
the store and/or the employee selling the vaccine to the purchaser.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or surgery.
   SPAY. To perform an ovarian hysterectomy on a female animal in order to
render said animal unable to reproduce.
   STERILIZATION. To spay or neuter an animal.
   SWINE. An animal of the species Sus Scofa, commonly referred to as a pig,
but does not include a potbellied pig that is kept as a pet and not for human
consumption.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-2 ANIMAL WELFARE DIVISION.
   The animal welfare division is a part of the City’s Police Department.
Animal welfare officers are authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and have authority to issue citations to persons who violate any
provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-3 DOGS AND CATS REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration required. Every person who owns or has charge, care,
custody, possession or control of any dog or cat over the age of six months
shall register it annually with the Police Department.
   (B)   Inoculate dogs and cats. No dog or cat shall be registered until after
it shall have been inoculated by a licensed veterinarian with an approved and
recognized rabies vaccine and a certificate signed by such licensed
veterinarian certifying to such inoculation shall have been presented to the
Police Department showing that the animal has been inoculated, which will
render such animal immune from rabies for the period of registration.
   (C)   Records. The Police Department shall record in a book kept for that
purpose the name and address of the person who owns or has charge of the dog or
cat, a brief description of the dog or cat and the registration number assigned
to it.
   (D)   Tag worn by animal. The Police Department shall furnish the
registrant, at the time of registration, with a tag which will be securely and
visibly attached to the dog or cat which shall indicate the calendar year for
which the license has been issued. All tags shall be valid for the calendar
year in which they are issued regardless of when the tag is obtained.
   (E)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs or
cats owned by, or in the charge of, nonresidents of the City so long as the
dogs or cats do not remain in the City for more than 15 days.
   (F)   Rabies vaccine sales restrictions. Any seller of recognized rabies
vaccine, who provides for the sale of the vaccine to persons other than
licensed veterinarians, must provide written notice to those individuals prior
to sale of the vaccine that inoculations made other than by a licensed
veterinarian will not be sufficient for registration under this chapter and if
not properly administered may not provide adequate protection from rabies for
the animal. Written notice will be deemed to have been provided to such
purchaser by seller, if seller has posted a placard giving written notice in
type no smaller than three-eighths inch at all checkout counters or at all
public entrances. Failure of such seller to provide such written notice shall
constitute an offense.
   (G)   Limit on dogs and cats. There shall be no more than five dogs or cats,
in any combination thereof, of more than six months of age, per property,
excepting property zoned agriculture.
   (H)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
up to $50 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-3) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-4 RABIES QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Rabies quarantine procedures.
      (1)   Voluntary impound. Any dog or cat suspected of being afflicted with
rabies, or which has bitten a person, shall immediately be voluntarily
impounded by the owner under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian for a
period of ten days, unless one of the exceptions found in subsection (B) below
is applicable.
      (2)   Seizure and impound. If the animal is not immediately voluntarily
impounded, the animal shall be seized pursuant to warrant by officers of the
Animal Welfare Division and impounded under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian for a period of ten days, or euthanized to allow for immediate
rabies testing.
      (3)   Violation. Any person who fails to surrender any animal to an
animal welfare officer or to a licensed veterinarian for impoundment pursuant
to the provisions of this section shall be punished by a fine of up to $500
plus costs and by term of imprisonment of not more than 30 days.
      (4)   Multiple and severe wounds; euthanasia. If the impounded animal has
inflicted multiple and severe bite wounds or deep punctures or lacerations to
the face, head or neck, it may be subject to immediate euthanasia to allow for
immediate rabies testing.
      (5)   Release. For other impounded dogs or cats, if, upon examination by
a veterinarian at the end of the impoundment, the animal has no signs of
rabies, it may be released to the owner.
      (6)   Stray animals. Any stray dog or cat suspected of being afflicted
with rabies or which has bitten a person shall be subject to being euthanized
to allow for immediate rabies testing.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   A dog or cat that has an owner, that bites a member of the owner’s
immediate family and the animal is apparently healthy at the time of the bite
may be placed in home quarantine, if the animal welfare officer determines that
the home circumstances are adequate, regardless of vaccination status. The
owner must provide proof of rabies vaccination to the animal shelter after
completion of the ten-day home observation period.
      (2)   A dog or cat that has an owner and is currently vaccinated by a
licensed veterinarian with an approved rabies vaccine and has not inflicted
severe injury on a person may be placed in a home quarantine, until the end of
a ten-day period from the bite, if the animal welfare officer determines that
home circumstances are adequate.
      (3)   Animals in service to the blind or hearing impaired, search and
rescue dogs, or dogs used for police enforcement duties shall be exempt from
any quarantine when a proper record of immunization against rabies is
established. However, the animal must be examined at the end of the ten-day
period by a licensed veterinarian.
      (4)   In other special circumstances, the Communicable Disease Division
(CDD) of the Oklahoma Department of Health will be contacted to determine
whether the animal should be quarantined or euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-5 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Authorization to impound. The Animal Welfare Division is authorized to
impound any animal for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or to
protect the animal or the public from harm.
   (B)   Responsibility for charges. The owner of the animal shall be
responsible for the charges incurred for providing veterinarian care for a
neglected or mistreated animal.
   (C)   Redemption of impounded animals.
      (1)   Any impounded dog or cat which has a current license on it shall be
held ten days, during which time the owner of such dog or cat may redeem it
upon payment of the fees as established in §
2-6D-2(B).
      (2)   Any unlicensed or unredeemed animal that is suitable for adoption
may be adopted by any person who follows the procedures identified in §
5-7-6 and pays the fees as established in §
2-6D-2(B). No such animal shall be destroyed or sold unless its owner has been
given at least two days written notice of such impoundment. Such notice shall
be written and shall be either mailed to the owner, if his name and address are
known, or posted at the animal control shelter if the name and address of the
owner are not known.
   (D)   Authority of Animal Welfare Division to destroy. Notwithstanding the
provisions herein, the Animal Welfare Division is authorized to euthanize any
animal which is vicious.
   (E)   Spaying or neutering; refund of certain fees.
      (1)   Any owner who redeems a dog or cat under the terms of subsection
(C) above shall have the impoundment fees charged under subsection (C) above
refunded, exclusive of the license and boarding fees, if the dog or cat is
spayed or neutered within 60 days of the date of redemption for an adult
animal, or in the case of an infant animal, within 30 days of the date a female
animal attained the age of six months and a male animal attained the age of
eight months.
      (2)   A certificate presented to the City, signed by a licensed
veterinarian certifying to the spaying or neutering shall be proof that the dog
or cat has been spayed or neutered.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-5) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-6 ADOPTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Dog and cat adoptions.
      (1)   No dog or cat may be released for adoption by the animal shelter
unless said animal has been surgically spayed or neutered.
      (2)   The fee for adopting the dog or cat shall be kept separated in a
manner that ensures the funds will bear interest and the City shall allocate
these fees solely to reduce the costs of spaying or neutering dogs or cats
adopted out of the animal shelter.
      (3)   The City shall maintain accurate records of accounts which fund
spay/neuter programs.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not be construed to require
sterilization of dogs or cats which are being held by the animal shelter, which
might be claimed by the rightful owner.
   (C)   Other animals. Other animals may be released for adoption without
being sterilized.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-6) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-7 DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Confinement. Every person who owns, has charge, care, custody,
possession or control of any dog or cat within the City shall confine the dog
or cat to the premises owned or controlled by him. Confinement shall be inside
the residence, or in a yard by means of a substantial fence or similar
enclosure of sufficient strength and height to prevent the dog or cat from
escaping.
   (B)   Tether. The dog or cat may be kept in the yard by use of a tether of
sufficient strength to prevent the dog or cat from escaping from the premises
when the tether is stretched to its full length. The tether must be located in
a manner that the animal has sufficient space to eat, drink and have access to
shelter.
   (C)   Penalty. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $200 plus costs for a first offense, a fine of up to $400 plus costs,
for subsequent offenses.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to a dog or cat that is being walked
and is controlled by means of a leash or a dog or cat that is in a vehicle and
the driver has control of the animal.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to agriculturally zoned property as
defined by the zoning ordinance of the City or at no leash dog areas.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-7) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-8 SHOOTING AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Shoot with tranquilizer. Animal welfare officers and police officers
are authorized to use a tranquilizer gun to shoot a dog or cat which is
vicious, running in parks or which they are unable to take up and impound.
   (B)   Rabid animals. Police officers may shoot to kill any dog or cat which
is vicious or suspected of rabies and the officers are unable to impound
safely.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-8) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-9 NO LEASH DOG AREAS.
   (A)   Rules. No leash dog areas are city owned property where dogs may be
exercised off leash in the company of their owners if the following rules are
observed.
      (1)   The dogs must have a current license with the City or another
municipality within the state.
      (2)   The owners may only exercise the dogs during daylight hours while
the park is open.
      (3)   The owners must remain with their dogs at all times.
      (4)   Dogs that are aggressive toward other dogs or persons may not be
exercised off leash. Owners and dogs may be banned from the park for violation
of these rules.
   (B)   Designated no leash dog areas. Designated no leash dog areas are as
follows:
      (1)   The undeveloped part of South Government Springs Park bordered on
the south and west by North Boggy Creek, to the east by Tenth Street to the
animal shelter and to the north by the park roads;
      (2)   North Garland detention; and
      (3)   Any city owned and designated dog park.
   (C)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$200 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-9) (Ord 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-10 DANGEROUS DOG.
   No person shall own, possess, keep or harbor any dangerous dog, except as
provided for in this section. The violation of this section shall be punishable
by a fine of up to $500 plus costs.
   (A)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to any animal owned by the Police
Department or other law enforcement agencies.
      (2)   Dogs shall not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury or
damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog or if
the dog was being tormented, abused or assaulted or the dog has been tormented,
abused or assaulted in the past or the person injured by the dog was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
   (B)   Impoundment. When any complaint is filed in the Municipal Court
alleging that a dangerous dog is owned, possessed, kept or harbored, then the
person against whom the complaint is filed, or any other person having control
or custody of the dog alleged to be dangerous, shall immediately deliver the
dog to the animal shelter.
   (C)   Trial.
      (1)   If the Court finds the dog was not dangerous, the dog will be
returned to the owner. If the Court finds that the dog is dangerous and the
defendant is guilty of owning, possessing, keeping or harboring a dangerous
dog, the Court shall determine whether the dog should be euthanized.
         (a)   If the Court determines that the dog should be euthanized and
the Court’s judgment is appealed, then the dog shall not be destroyed until the
appeal is disposed of by the District Court. If the judgment is not appealed,
the dog shall be immediately euthanized.
         (b)   If the Court finds the dog is dangerous but it need not be
destroyed, the dog may be released to the owner upon the dog being registered
as a dangerous dog with the Police Department and upon completion of conditions
specified by the Court.
   (D)   Registration. A dangerous dog must be registered as such with the
Animal Welfare Division of the Police Department. The application for such
registration shall contain the name and address of the owner, the breed, age,
sex, color, any other identifying marks of the dog and the location where the
dog is to be kept. The application fee for such registration shall be $10 and
shall be in addition to any other fee required to register a dog with the City.
   (E)   Conditions imposed by the Court. The Court shall impose conditions as
the Judge sees fit. These conditions may include the following:
      (1)   Confine the dog, at all times, either indoors or outdoors, in a
“proper enclosure”, as defined in §
5-7-1;
      (2)   When not confined, the dog shall be muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash and under physical restraint of a responsible person
over 16 years of age. The muzzle must not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration, but must prevent the dog from biting any
person, dog or animal;
      (3)   Display in a conspicuous place on the owner’s premises and on the
dog’s enclosure a clearly visible warning sign stating that there is a
dangerous dog on the property and stating “Beware of Dangerous Dog”. The sign
must include a warning symbol that informs children of the dog’s presence;
      (4)   Maintain, in full force and effect, a policy of liability insurance
such as homeowner’s insurance or surety issued by an insurer qualified under
state statutes in the amount of not less than $250,000 insuring the owner for
any personal injuries inflicted by the dog;
      (5)   Sterilization of dog at the owner’s expense;
      (6)   Microchip the dog at the owner’s expense;
      (7)   Inspections of premises by animal welfare as required. The fee for
such inspections is set forth in §
2-6D-2; and
      (8)   The Court may specify any other conditions it deems necessary.
   (F)   If the owner does not meet the special conditions required by the
Court, the dog will not be released to the owner and it will be euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-10) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-11 VIOLATION OF CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   If the owner of a dangerous animal violates any of the dangerous dog
special conditions imposed by the Court, the dog shall be immediately
confiscated and impounded by the Animal Welfare Division. Upon conviction, the
dog shall be euthanized.
   (B)   Such violation shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus costs,
and/or by a term of imprisonment of up to 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-11) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-12 REQUIRED DANGEROUS DOG NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The owner must notify Animal Welfare if the custody of the dangerous
dog is to be transferred for any reason. Such written notification shall occur
at least 72 hours prior to transfer and shall contain the name, address and
telephone number of the new owner.
   (B)   The owner must notify Animal Welfare if the owner plans to move his
residence so that the new premises may be inspected and approved prior to the
relocation of the dangerous dog.
   (C)   The owner must notify the Police Department within four hours, that
the dangerous dog is at large or the dog has attacked a person or animal.
   (D)   Failure to notify shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus
costs, and/or a term of imprisonment of 30 days. It could also result in
impoundment of the dog and upon conviction the dog will be euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-12) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-13 CONCEALMENT OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal, or cause to be
concealed, any dog which has bitten or attacked any person or has been
determined to be a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog from any animal
control officer or police officer.
   (B)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$500 and/or a term of imprisonment of up to 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-13) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-14 KEEPING DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall keep any animal which is known or
believed to be infected with a dangerous or communicable disease.
   (B)   Exception. This prohibition does not to any veterinary hospital, zoo,
ranch or other place where such animals are adequately cared for with due
regard for public health and safety.
   (C)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $200 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-14) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-15 KEEPING OF SWINE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain swine within the limits of the City,
except in those areas zoned for agricultural purposes or for the hauling or
transportation of swine into or through the City for the purpose of shipment,
processing or sale so long as said swine are not permitted to remain in the
City for a longer period than 24 hours.
   (B)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$200 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-15) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-16 POTBELLIED PIGS.
   (A)   Potbellied pigs may be kept as pets within the city limits if the pigs
are kept for personal enjoyment and not raised for human consumption.
   (B)   Pigs that are not more than 100 pounds or more than 20 inches in
height are presumed to be potbellied pigs. For adult pigs that exceed 100
pounds or 20 inches in height, a veterinarian’s certification that the pig is a
pet and is not raised for human consumption is required for the pig to be
classified as a potbellied pig.
   (C)   The number of potbellied pigs is limited to two per household.
   (D)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by $100 fine.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-16) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021; Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-
6-2024)
§ 5-7-17 KEEPING LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Livestock may not be kept except on property zoned A Agricultural or
R-1 Residential Estate or lots one acre or larger.
   (B)   Livestock operations that were in existence prior to August 15, 2007
are allowed to continue but not to expand the number or the type of the
livestock kept.
   (C)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$200 plus costs. Each separate day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Livestock kept in violation of this section shall be subject
to abatement by the City.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-17) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-18 LIVESTOCK AT LARGE.
   (A)   Owner responsibility. Every person who owns, has charge, care,
custody, possession or control of livestock shall keep them exclusively upon
his own premises and to restrain them from running at large.
   (B)   Impoundment. Any animal described in subsection (A) above found
running at large shall be impounded by Animal Welfare.
   (C)   Redemption. Such livestock may be redeemed by the owner upon payment
of a fee as provided in §
2-6D-2(A) for each animal, plus a fee as provided in said §
2-6D-2(A) for each day said animal was impounded.
   (D)   Sale. If such livestock is not redeemed within five days, it shall be
sold, provided that the owner of the livestock has been given at least two
days’ notice of such impoundment. Such notice shall be written and shall be
either mailed to the owner, if his name and address is known, or posted at the
animal welfare shelter, if the owner is not known.
   (E)   Authorization to kill. City police officers are authorized to kill
livestock that are at large if the livestock are vicious, uncontrollable or are
endangering the public because they cannot be captured and restrained.
   (F)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $200 plus costs. Each separate day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-18) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-19 ROOSTERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. Male chickens over six months of age shall not be kept
except on property zoned A agriculture or R-1 residential estates.
   (B)   Exception. Those properties that had roosters prior to August 15, 2007
and have had roosters continually since the livestock prohibition and remain
grandfathered.
   (C)   Violation. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $500 plus court costs. Each separate day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-19) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-20 OUTDOOR SHELTERS.
   (A)   Shelters appropriate to the local climatic conditions for the
particular species of animal are required if the animal is kept outdoors.
   (B)   A shelter for a dog, cat, potbellied pig or other small animal
including fowl shall protect against the cold and the heat. The cold weather
shelter shall include a moisture-proof and windproof structure of suitable size
to accommodate the animal, to allow retention of body heat in the winter. It
shall be made of durable material, and shall be provided with a sufficient
quantity of suitable bedding material to provide insulation and protection
against cold and dampness and to promote retention of body heat. The warm
weather shelter should provide for air ventilation and shading from the sun.
   (C)   The shelter must be maintained in a clean and safe condition. The
property on which animals are kept must be maintained in such a manner as to
prevent waste from accumulating. A suitable method of drainage shall be
provided to rapidly eliminate excess water.
   (D)   All shelters shall comply with all other city and state laws.
   (E)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$200 plus costs for a first offense and a fine of up to $500 plus costs for
subsequent offenses. Each separate day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-20) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-21 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously or cruelly injure or torture any animal.
   (B)   Animals that have been mistreated may be impounded and the person
responsible shall be responsible for paying for the care and maintenance of the
animal.
   (C)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$500 plus costs and/or a term of imprisonment of up to 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-21) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-22 NEGLECT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall fail to provide adequate care, water, food or
needlessly extend the suffering of any animal from illness or accident by
failing to provide necessary medical care and/or euthanasia.
   (B)   Animals that have been neglected may be impounded and the person
responsible shall be responsible for paying for the care and maintenance of the
animal.
   (C)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$500 plus costs. Each separate day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-22) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-23 ANIMALS LEFT IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave an animal unattended in a vehicle when by such
act the animal’s health or safety is endangered.
   (B)   Law enforcement officers, firefighters and animal welfare officers may
enter such vehicle to rescue the animal where its safety or health may be in
jeopardy. Said entry may be made through an unlocked door or by unlocking a
door through an open window or with the use of a mechanical device.
   (C)   These officers or firefighters may use any reasonable force to remove
the animal from said vehicle when the animal’s behavior indicates distress or
the temperature inside of the vehicle is above 85°F or the temperature outside
of the vehicle is above 75°F.
   (D)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-23) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-24 DUMPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or dump an animal.
   (B)   It shall not be considered dumping if a feral animal is taken in by a
person solely for the purpose of spaying or neutering and vaccinating the feral
animal and then releasing or returning the animal to the location in which it
was found.
   (C)   The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$100 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-24) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-25 LOUD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall own, possess, keep or harbor any animal
which by loud, persistent and frequent barking, howling, squealing, hissing,
yelping or other noise causes annoyance or disturbance.
   (B)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $100 plus costs for a first offense and a fine of up to $200 plus
costs for subsequent offenses.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-25) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-26 SALE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall sell, trade or give away dogs or cats on
any public right-of-way or city park in the limits of the City.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit animal welfare or rescue groups from
conducting adoption events with the permission of the property owner. The City
Manager may authorize adoption events at city parks upon request.
   (C)   Violation. The violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $100 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-26) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 5-7-27 CONDITIONAL, LIMITED, HEN WAIVER.
   (A)   The City Marshal may issue a waiver of §
5-7-17 to a allow person who resides on a lot, that is not zoned Residential
Estates (R-1) and is less than an acre, to conditionally allow the resident to
have up to six hens as pets.
   (B)   To qualify for the waiver the resident must have adequate space for
the upkeep and care of the hens. If the property is leased, the renter must
provide a letter from the owner consenting to the keeping of the hens.
   (C)   The property, the shelter or coop and the yard must be maintained
consistent with this chapter. The person seeking the waiver must consent in
writing to the inspections from the City Marshal. The City Marshal will provide
notice of an inspection prior to the inspection.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the conditions will result in the loss of the
conditional waiver and the removal of the hens from the property.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-27) (Ord. 2022-18, passed 7-19-2022)
TITLE 6: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
1.    GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
      
2.    ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
3.    TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
4.    OVERTAKING AND PASSING REGULATIONS
      
5.    DRIVING RULES
      
6.    PARKING REGULATIONS
      
7.    GENERAL MISCELLANEOUS RULES
      
8.    VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
      
9.    PEDESTRIANS
      
10.    BICYCLES AND PLAY VEHICLES
      
11.    MOTORCYCLES
      
12.    VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
      
13.    LOW SPEED ELECTRICAL VEHICLES, GOLF CARTS, MINIBIKES, ALL-TERRAIN
VEHICLES AND MOBILITY DEVICES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
   
6-1-1   Short title
   
6-1-2   Definitions
   
6-1-3   Compliance with regulations
   
6-1-4   Security verification form
   
6-1-5   Driving without valid license; unauthorized drivers; failure to produce
license; failure to update license
   
6-1-6   Accidents
   
6-1-7   Mandatory seat belt use
   
6-1-8   Offenses by persons owning or controlling vehicles
   
6-1-9   Noises prohibited
   
6-1-10   Traffic hazards; visual obstructions
   
6-1-11   School zones
   
6-1-12   Maintenance, construction and safety zones
   
6-1-13   License tag required on vehicle
   
6-1-14   Truck routes
   
6-1-15   Documents required during operation of motor vehicle
§ 6-1-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This title shall be known and may be cited as the “City Traffic Code”.
(1994 Code, § 20-1)
§ 6-1-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever any words and phrases used in this title are not defined herein,
but are defined in the state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, such
definitions therein shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used
herein. For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Utility type motor driven cycle with a maximum curb
weight of 1,500 pounds.
(47 O.S. § 1-125)
   ALLEY. A narrow passage or way, not designed to be a street or highway,
intersecting a block or tract of land and so designated on a plat of record or
established by prescription and used primarily for the accommodation of the
abutting or adjoining property.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled access highway
or other major radial or circumferential highway designated as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways.
(47 O.S. § 1-102)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of fire departments, ambulances and
police vehicles, including vehicles owned or operated by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation; such vehicles shall be equipped with siren capable of giving an
audible signal, as required by law, and a flashing red light.
(47 O.S. § 1-103)
   AUXILIARY SERVICE HIGHWAY. A street especially designed to furnish access to
an arterial street.
   BICYCLE.
      (1)   Any device propelled solely by human power, upon which any person
or persons may ride, having a seat or saddle for the use of each rider, and:
         (a)   On a bicycle, two tandem wheels, either of which is 20 inches or
more in diameter;
         (b)   On a tricycle, three wheels in any configuration, of which at
least one is 20 inches or more in diameter; or
         (c)   On a quad cycle, four wheels in any configuration, of which at
least two are 20 inches or more in diameter.
      (2)   The wheel diameter provisions do not apply to recumbent bicycles.
(47 O.S. § 1-104)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
(47 O.S. § 1-105)
   BUS STOP. Parking space along the side of a street adjacent to a crosswalk
properly marked and designated, which shall be used by public buses for
discharging and taking on passengers.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(47 O.S. § 1-106)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(47 O.S. § 1-111)
   CURB LOADING ZONE. Space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the actual loading or unloading of passengers.
   DAYTIME. One-half hour before sunrise to one-half hour after sunset.
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(47 O.S. § 1-114)
   ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLE. Any bicycle with two or three wheels, fully
operative pedals for human propulsion and equipped with an electric motor with
a power outlet of not more than 750 watts, that meets the requirements of one
of the following classes:
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLE, which is an electric-assisted
bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is
pedaling, and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the
speed of 20 mph;
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLE, which is an electric-assisted
bicycle equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the
bicycle, and that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle
reaches the speed of 20 mph; or
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLE, which is an electric-assisted
bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is
pedaling, and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the
speed of 28 mph.
(47 O.S. § 1-104)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two
nontandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, having an
electric propulsion system with an average of 750 watts (one hp), and a maximum
speed of less than 20 mph on a paved level surface when powered solely by such
a propulsion system.
(47 O.S. § 1-114A)
   ELECTRIC SCOOTER. A vehicle with two tandem wheels, handlebars and foot
support for the use of the operator that is powered by an electric motor and/or
human power and has a maximum speed of no more than 20 mph.
   GOLF CART or GO-CART. Motor driven operated vehicle that is manufactured
principally for use off the streets and highways.
(47 O.S. § 11-1116)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(47 O.S. § 1-121)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(47 O.S. § 1-122)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway
of two highways which join one another at approximately right angles, or the
area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways, joining at any
other angle, may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
(47 O.S. § 1-126)
   LOW SPEED ELECTRICAL VEHICLE. Any four wheeled electrical vehicle that is
powered by an electric motor that draws current from rechargeable storage
batteries or other sources of electrical current and whose top speed is greater
than 20 mph but not greater than 25 mph and is manufactured in compliance with
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Standards for LOW SPEED
VEHICLES in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500.
(47 O.S. § 1-134.1)
   MINIBIKE. Any self-propelled vehicle or motor driven cycle having less than
an eight-inch wheel rim, or less than a 40 inch wheel base, or less than a 25
inch seat height.
(47 O.S. § 11-1116)
   MOPED. Any motor driven cycle with a motor that does not exceed two brake
horsepower and that is not capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed in
excess of 30 mph on level ground. If an internal combustion engine is used, the
displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeters and the MOPED shall have a
power drive system that functions directly or automatically without clutching
or shifting by the operator after the drive system is engaged.
(47 O.S. § 1-133.2)
   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE. Any motor vehicle having a power source that if it is a
combustion engine, has a piston or rotor displacement of greater than 35 cubic
centimeters but less than 150 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of
chambers in the power source or if it is electric has a power output of greater
than 1,000 watts and with either power source, has a seat or saddle for use by
each rider and not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding motorized bicycles.
(47 O.S. § 1-136)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails; provided, however, that the definition of MOTOR VEHICLE
shall not include “implements of husbandry”, as defined by 47 O.S.
(47 O.S. § 1-134)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of each
rider in contact with the ground, but excluding a tractor and combustion engine
with a piston or rotor displacement of greater than 150 cubic centimeters.
(47 O.S. § 1-135)
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. Any bicycle having fully operative pedals for propulsion
by power, an automatic transmission; and a combustion engine with a piston or
rotor displacement of 50 cubic centimeters or less, regardless of the number of
chambers in the engine, which is capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum
design speed of not more than 30 mph on level ground.
(47 O.S. § 1-104)
   MOTORIZED SCOOTER. Any vehicle having not more that three wheels in contact
with the ground, handlebars and a foot support or seat for the use of the
operator, a power source capable of propelling the vehicle at a maximum design
speed of not more than 25 mph on level ground and if the power source is a
combustion engine, has a piston or motor displacement of 35 cubic centimeters
or less regardless of number of chambers in the power source or if the power
source is electric, has a power output of not more than 1,000 watts. This
definition does not include an electric personal assistive mobility device,
bicycle, electric assisted bicycle or motorized bicycle.
(47 O.S. § 1-133.3)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, barricades, signals and
markings and devices not inconsistent with state law, placed or erected by
authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(47 O.S. § 1-139)
   OUTSKIRTS OF THE CITY.
      (1)   Those parts of the national system of interstate and defense
highways, federal aid highways and state highways within the boundaries of the
City where there is:
         (a)   Low land use density;
         (b)   Absence of any school or residential subdivision requiring
direct ingress or egress from the highway;
         (c)   Low volume of traffic on the highway; and
         (d)   A scarcity of retail or commercial businesses abutting the
highway.
      (2)   Highways 45, 64, 81 and 412 do not qualify as OUTSKIRTS.
(47 O.S. § 2-117)
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with a right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purposes of this title.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
(47 O.S. § 1-142)
   PARKING METER. Means and includes any mechanical device or meter, not
inconsistent herewith, placed or erected for the regulation of parking by
authority of the City. Each PARKING METER installed shall indicate by proper
legend the legal parking time established herein and when operated shall at all
times indicate the balance of the legal parking time, and at the expiration of
such period shall indicate illegal or over parking time.
   PARKING METER SPACE. Any space within a parking meter zone adjacent to a
parking meter and which is duly designated for the parking of a single vehicle
by the lines painted or adjacent to or adjoining the parking meter.
   PARKING METER ZONES. Any restricted streets upon which parking meters are
installed and in operation.
   PARKWAY. Any street, highway or limited access facility from which trucks,
buses and other commercial vehicles are excluded.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person afoot.
(47 O.S. § 1-143)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every sheriff, constable, policeman, highway patrolman and
any other officer who is authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make
arrests for violations of state traffic laws and municipal ordinances.
(47 O.S. § 1-147)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. A way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner but not by other persons.
(47 O.S. § 1-148)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(47 O.S. § 1-149)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(47 O.S. § 1-150)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, diesel, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(47 O.S. § 1-151)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residence or residences and
buildings in use for business.
(47 O.S. § 1-154)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
(47 O.S. § 1-156)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to
any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(47 O.S. § 1-158(a))
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
(47 O.S. § 1-159)
   SCHOOL BUS. A motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school; provided, however, that this definition of SCHOOL BUS shall not be
extended to include buses normally used in city transit which may be used part
time for transportation of school children within the City during some portion
of the day.
(47 O.S. § 1-160)
   SHOULDER. The portion of the roadway contiguous with the traveled way for
accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral support of
base and surface courses.
(47 O.S. § 1-158(b))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(47 O.S. § 1-163)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
(47 O.S. § 1-167)
   STOP. When required, shall mean complete cessation from movement.
(47 O.S. § 1-169)
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, shall mean any halting even momentarily
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
(47 O.S. § 1-170)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part is open to the use of the public for the purposes of
vehicular travel.
(47 O.S. § 1-171)
   TAXICAB STAND. A parking space properly marked and designated to be used by
taxicabs while waiting for customers.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY OR STREET. A street or highway or portion thereof on which
vehicular traffic is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield
right-of-way to vehicles on such THROUGH HIGHWAY in obedience to either a stop
sign or a yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
(47 O.S. § 1-175)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for the
purpose of travel.
(47 O.S. § 1-177)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. A device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(47 O.S. § 1-178)
   TRAFFIC DIVISION. The Traffic Division of the Police Department, or in the
event a Traffic Division is not established, then the term, whenever used
herein, shall be deemed to refer to the Police Department. See also §
6-2-2 .
   TRAFFIC LANE. The portion of the traveled way for the movement of a single
line of vehicles. (47 OS § 1-179)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(47 O.S. § 1-182)
   TRUCK ROUTES. The streets and avenues herein designated for use by trucks.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to, and including, any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter of a
mile or more.
(47 O.S. § 1-185)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided, however, the
definition of VEHICLE, as used in this title, shall not include “implements of
husbandry”, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-125.
(47 OS § 1-186)
(Ord. 2018-19, passed 6-5-2018; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-16-2021; Ord. 2021-14,
passed 10-5-2021)
§ 6-1-3 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to
particular offenses, it is a misdemeanor and an offense for any person to do
any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title.
(1994 Code, § 20-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-102
§ 6-1-4 SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the Insurance
Commissioner, verifying the existence of security required by the Compulsory
Liability Insurance Law, see 47 O.S. §§ 7-600 et seq.
   (B)   Production of security verification form.
      (1)   Any owner or operator of a motor vehicle, while operating or using
such vehicle or allowing such vehicle to be operated or used, who shall fail to
produce for inspection a valid and current security verification form or
equivalent form, issued by the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety in which
the vehicle is registered, reflecting liability coverage, upon request of any
police officer or upon the request of any person involved in any collision with
said owner or operator, shall be guilty of an offense, and shall be subject to
suspension of license and registration. If the state of registration does not
require security verification, the owner or operator shall produce for
inspection a valid and current security verification form or equivalent form,
reflecting coverage that meets or exceeds the coverage required under state
law.
      (2)   Any person producing proof to the court that liability coverage for
the driver was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to
dismissal of the charge. If proof of security verification is presented to the
court no later than the business day preceding the first scheduled court
appearance, the dismissal shall be without payment of court costs.
      (3)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety
within five days reflecting the action taken by the court.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or
operator’s security verification form or an equivalent form from the Oklahoma
Department of Public Safety during operation of the vehicle:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of a business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
provisions of the Oklahoma Compulsory Liability Insurance Law, see 47 O.S. §§
7-600 et seq., according to records of the Corporation Commission which reflect
a deposit or fleet policy;
      (3)   Fleet vehicles maintaining current vehicle liability insurance as
required by the Corporation Commission or any other regulating entity;
      (4)   Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
operating a taxicab or taxicabs shall be exempt if the person, firm or
corporation has complied with the provisions of 47 O.S. § 8-104 and as long as
the taxicab business is properly registered in the City and has provided proof
of financial responsibility during the registration process; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
   (D)   Seizure and towing of vehicles.
      (1)   Upon issuing a citation under this section, the law enforcement
officer issuing the citation may seize the vehicle and cause it to be towed and
stored if the officer has probable cause to believe that the vehicle is not
insured as required.
      (2)   If the operator produces what appears to be a valid security
verification form and the officer is unable to confirm compliance through the
online verification system or noncompliance by a subsequent investigation, the
officer shall be prohibited from seizing the vehicle.
      (3)   No vehicle shall be seized and towed under this provision if the
vehicle is displaying a temporary license plate that has not expired.
   (E)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed $250 plus costs, or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 2015-46, passed 12-1-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-117.1 and 47 O.S. §§ 7-601 et seq.
§ 6-1-5 DRIVING WITHOUT VALID LICENSE; UNAUTHORIZED DRIVERS; FAILURE TO PRODUCE
LICENSE; FAILURE TO UPDATE LICENSE.
   (A)   Prohibitions. No person shall:
      (1)   Drive a vehicle within the City without having a valid driver’s
license, or license endorsement, for the class of vehicle being operated, as
required by the laws of the state. The violation of this subsection (A)(1)
shall be punishable by a maximum fine of $500 plus costs, unless the person has
previously been convicted of a violation of this subsection (A)(1), then the
violation of this subsection (A)(1) shall be punishable by a maximum fine of
$750 plus costs;
      (2)   Knowingly authorize or permit a motor vehicle owned by him, or
under his control, to be driven within the City by a person who is not properly
licensed or permitted to drive the vehicle, as required by the laws of the
state. The violation of this subsection (A)(2) shall be punishable by a fine of
up to $150 plus costs for a first time offense, $300 plus costs for a second
offense and $500 plus costs for a third and subsequent offense;
      (3)   Drive a vehicle while his driver’s license has been suspended or
revoked. The violation of this subsection (A)(3) shall be punishable by a
maximum fine of $500 plus costs, unless the person has previously been
convicted of a violation of this subsection (A)(3), then the violation of this
subsection (A)(3) shall be punishable by a maximum fine of $750 plus costs; or
      (4)   Drive a vehicle in any manner in violation of restrictions imposed
in a restricted license or permit issued.
   (B)   License to be carried and displayed upon demand of a peace officer.
Every licensed driver shall have his license in his immediate possession and
shall display his license upon the demand of a peace officer. The violation of
this subsection (B) shall be punishable by a maximum fine of $100. However, any
person cited for this offense who can produce a valid license on or before the
court date is entitled to the dismissal of the case without payment of court
costs.
   (C)   Change of address or name. Whenever any licensed driver changes his
mailing address, residential address or name, he is required to update this
information with the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety within ten days of
the change. Any licensed driver who fails to update this information is guilty
of an offense under this subsection (C). The violation of this subsection (C)
is punishable by a fine of $50. Any licensed driver who provides sufficient
proof to the Court Clerk before his court date is entitled to have the case
dismissed upon the payment of court costs.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Licensing of drivers, see 47 O.S. §§ 6-101 et seq.
§ 6-1-6 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply upon highways and
elsewhere throughout the City.
   (B)   Accidents involving damage to vehicle.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as
possible, and shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the
scene of such accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection
(C) below. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than
is necessary.
      (2)   Any person failing to stop or comply with said requirements under
such circumstances shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 plus costs.
   (C)   Duty to give information and render aid.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give his correct name, address and registration
number of the vehicle he is driving, and shall, upon request and if available,
exhibit his operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall
render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including
the carrying, or the making of arrangements for the carrying, of such person to
a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
      (2)   A violation of this subsection (C) shall have a maximum penalty of
$500 plus costs.
   (D)   Duty upon striking unattended vehicle.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the correct name and address of
the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall
leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the
name and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the
striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
      (2)   A violation of this subsection (D) shall have a maximum penalty of
$500 plus costs.
   (E)   Duty upon striking fixtures upon highway. The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident resulting only in damage to fixtures or other property
legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take reasonable steps to locate and
notify the owner or person in charge of such property of such fact and of his
name and address and of the registration number of the vehicle he is driving
and shall, upon request and if available, exhibit his operator’s or chauffeur’s
license and shall make report of such accident when and as required in
subsection (F) below. A violation of this subsection (E) shall have a maximum
penalty of $500 plus costs.
   (F)   Immediate notice of accidents. The driver of a vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury to, or death of, any person shall immediately, by
the quickest means of communication, give notice of such accident to the Police
Department after complying with the requirements of subsection (C) above. A
violation of this subsection (F) shall have a maximum penalty of $500 plus
costs.
   (G)   Inability of driver to report.
      (1)   An accident report is not required under this section from any
person who is physically incapable of making report during the period of such
incapacity.
      (2)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
an immediate notice of an accident as required in subsection (F) above, and
there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable
of doing so, such occupant shall make, or cause to be given, the notice not
given by the driver. A violation of this subsection (G) shall have a maximum
penalty of $500 plus costs.
   (H)   False reports. Any person who gives information in reports as required
in subsection (G) above, knowing or having reason to believe that such
information is false shall have a penalty not exceeding $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101, 10-103—10-107, 10-111 and 10-112
§ 6-1-7 MANDATORY SEAT BELT USE.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, the term PASSENGER VEHICLE shall
mean a Class D motor vehicle, but shall not include trucks, truck tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or vehicles used
primarily for farm use which has been registered and licensed pursuant to the
provisions of 47 O.S. § 1134. For purposes of this definition, TRUCKS shall not
include pickup trucks.
   (B)   Operators and front seat passengers; exceptions.
      (1)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a Class A commercial
motor vehicle, Class B commercial motor vehicle, Class C commercial motor
vehicle or a passenger vehicle operated in this state shall wear a properly
adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system, required to be installed in the
motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 571.208.
      (2)   This subsection (B) shall not apply to a person who has been
exempted from wearing a seat belt from the Commissioner of Public Safety. Proof
of such exemption shall be in the form of a restriction appearing on the
driver’s license of such person.
      (3)   This subsection (B) shall not apply to an operator of a motor
vehicle while performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. Postal
Service.
      (4)   Any person convicted of violating this subsection (B) shall be
punished by fine and court costs which shall not exceed $20.
   (C)   Mandatory use of child passenger system; exceptions; penalty.
      (1)   Every driver, when transporting a child under eight years of age in
a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets or highways of this state,
shall provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system.
         (a)   A child under four years of age shall be properly secured in a
child passenger restraint system. The child passenger restraint system shall be
rear facing until the child reaches two years of age or until the child reaches
the weight or height limit of the rear facing child passenger restraint system
as allowed by the manufacturer of the child passenger restraint system,
whichever occurs first.
         (b)   A child of at least four years of age but younger than eight
years of age, if not taller than four feet nine inches in height, shall be
properly secured in either a child passenger restraint system or a child
booster seat.
         (c)   For purposes of this subsection (C), CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT
SYSTEM means an infant or child passenger restraint system that meets the
federal standards as set by 49 C.F.R. § 571.213.
      (2)   If a child is eight years of age or is taller than four feet, nine
inches in height, a seat belt properly secured to the vehicle shall be
sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
      (3)   The provisions of this subsection (C) shall not apply to:
         (a)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         (b)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         (c)   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in
use;
         (d)   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are
unable to be placed in such devices; provided there is written documentation
from a physician of medical reason; or
         (e)   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds and
who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap
safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with combination
lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and shoulder safety
belts in the back seat are being used by other children who weigh more than 40
pounds. Provided, however, for the purposes of this subsection (C)(3)(e), back
seat shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle
operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided further, there
shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements
of this subsection (C)(3)(e) if at the request of any law enforcement officer,
the licensed childcare facility or church provides the officer with a written
statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child weighs more
than 40 pounds.
      (4)   A violation of the provisions of this subsection (C) shall not be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages unless the
plaintiff in such action or proceeding is a child under 16 years of age. In any
action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or wrongful
death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any person to have
the infant properly restrained in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection (C) shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
      (5)   Any person convicted of violating subsection (C)(1) or (C)(2) above
shall be punished by a fine of $50 plus costs. Revenue from such fine shall be
apportioned to the Department of Public Safety Revolving Fund and used by the
Oklahoma Highway Safety Office to promote the use of child passenger restraint
systems as provided by 47 O.S. § 11-1113. This fine shall be suspended and the
court costs limited to a maximum of $15 in the case of the first offense upon
proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system.
(Ord. 2015-45, passed 12-1-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-1112 and 12-417
§ 6-1-8 OFFENSES BY PERSONS OWNING OR CONTROLLING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of any vehicle, to require or knowingly to permit the
operation of such vehicle upon a highway in any manner contrary to law. A
violation of this section shall have a maximum penalty of $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 16-102
§ 6-1-9 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in lawful control of a motor vehicle to
cause, suffer or allow any unreasonably loud and excessive noise in such motor
vehicle, to include noise from a radio, car stereo or electronic audio
equipment or similar equipment. A violation will occur if the noise is clearly
audible from a location not less than 50 feet from its source. Violations of
this section may be filed only by police officers and code enforcement
personnel and the penalty is up to $150 plus costs for a first time offense,
$300 plus costs for a second offense and $500 plus costs for a third and
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-1-10 TRAFFIC HAZARDS; VISUAL OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Definition. As used herein, a TRAFFIC HAZARD shall mean any tree,
plant, shrub, fence or other structure that is so situated as to obstruct the
view of any driver of a vehicle on the streets.
   (B)   Removal by property owner. The owner of any lot or parcel of land upon
which there is a traffic hazard shall remove it upon notice as provided in
subsection (C) below.
   (C)   Notice to remove traffic hazard. The City Clerk shall notify the owner
of any property upon which a traffic hazard exists to remove it within ten days
of the date of service of the notice. The notice shall be in writing, shall
describe the hazard to be removed and shall be served in one of the following
ways:
      (1)   By personal service upon the owner;
      (2)   By leaving a copy of the notice with a person over the age of 16
years, and who is residing upon the premises involved;
      (3)   By serving a copy on the person in possession of the premises
involved; and
      (4)   By mailing by registered or certified mail to the owner.
   (D)   Appeals. The property owner may appeal from the notice to remove a
traffic hazard by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
ten days after service of the notice upon him. The appeal shall be heard by the
City Council at the next regular meeting or at a specifically designated time.
   (E)   Failure to remove. The failure of any property owner to remove the
traffic hazard within the time specified in the notice or if appeal is taken,
within ten days after any order of the City Council shall constitute an
offense.
   (F)   Violation; penalty. The penalty for a violation of this section is up
to $100 plus costs for a first time offense, $200 plus costs for a second
offense and $300 plus costs for a third and subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-1-11 SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   All streets adjacent to elementary and junior high schools, whether
public or private, within the City, and such additional streets near schools as
are posted with school zone signs, are designated as school zones. School zones
shall be in effect during the posted hours, Monday through Friday during the
regular school year, unless otherwise posted. Posting of school zones shall be
as approved by the City Council. Considerations for school zones may be
recommended to the City Council after a traffic study by the Metropolitan Area
Planning Commission.
   (B)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of this section may be
charged with the offense of “speeding in a school zone”.
      (1)   The violation of this section is punishable by a fine not to exceed
$150 plus costs if the violator is traveling ten mph or less above the posted
limit.
      (2)   If the violator is traveling more than ten mph above the posted
limit, the fine shall not exceed $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Marking of school zone speed limits, see 11 O.S. § 22-117B
§ 6-1-12 MAINTENANCE, CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY ZONES.
   (A)   Driving through safety zone.
      (1)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
      (2)   A violation of this subsection (A) that does not result in an
accident is punishable by a fine of up to $200 plus costs.
      (3)   A violation of this subsection (A) that does result in an accident
is punishable by a fine of up to $300 plus costs.
   (B)   Maintenance and construction zones; closure of highway.
      (1)   The City Manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized to close
any highway or section thereof to traffic while such highway is under repair,
maintenance or construction and, in exercising such authority, shall erect or
cause to be erected control devices and barricades to warn and notify the
public that said highway has been closed to traffic.
      (2)   When any highway has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection (B)(1) above and traffic control devices or barricades have been
erected, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over or around such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter said closed area; except that the provisions of this subsection (B)
shall not apply to persons while engaged in the construction, maintenance and
repair of said highway or to persons entering therein for the protection of
lives or property; provided that persons having their places of residence or
places of business within such closed area may travel, when possible to do so,
through such areas at their own risk.
      (3)   No person shall remove, change, modify, deface or alter any traffic
control device or barricade, which has been erected on any highway under the
provisions of this subsection (B).
      (4)   Nothing in this subsection (B) shall relieve the City or its
contractors, agents, servants or employees from liability for failure to
perform any of the duties imposed herein.
      (5)   A violation of this subsection (B) that does not result in an
accident is punishable by a fine of up to $200 plus costs.
      (6)   A violation of this subsection (B) that does result in an accident
is punishable by a fine of up to $300 plus costs.
   (C)   Violation of laws in construction and maintenance zones.
      (1)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any highway is
being performed, wherein traffic control devices are used to warn and guide the
public, every person using such highway shall obey all signs, signals,
railings, flagmen or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area.
      (2)   Any violations that occur in a construction or maintenance zone
shall result in the doubling of the appropriate fine unless the charge is
already the maximum fine available under state law for the offense.
      (3)   For purposes of this subsection (C), a CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
ZONE means any location where repair, maintenance or construction work is
actually in progress and workers are present.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-1301 and 11-1302
§ 6-1-13 LICENSE TAG REQUIRED ON VEHICLE.
   (A)   License plate or tag required. No person shall drive or move on any
road, street or highway of the City any motor vehicle, including motorcycles,
trailers, semitrailers or pole trailers, unless the vehicle bears a valid
current license plate (tag) adequately affixed, displayed and visible as
required by the laws of the state of issue; however, nothing herein shall
prohibit the moving of any disabled vehicle by a properly licensed vehicle.
   (B)   Seizure of vehicle. Any vehicle driven on any road, street or highway
of the City that is not bearing or displaying a proper license plate required
by state law, after 90 days from the expiration date of the annual registration
of a vehicle, may be seized and taken into custody by a duly authorized peace
officer. The vehicle shall not be released to the owner until it is duly
registered and the license, registration and/or title fee and penalties due are
paid in full, and the owner can provide proof that the vehicle is insured or an
affidavit that the vehicle will not be operated on public highways or public
streets. The owner must also pay the costs of the seizure, including the
reasonable cost of taking the vehicle into custody and storing the vehicle,
before the vehicle will be released.
   (C)   Failure to pay. In the event the owner of any vehicle seized fails to
pay such fees and penalties due, together with the cost of seizure and storage,
and fails to provide proof of security or an affidavit that the vehicle will
not be operated on public highways or public streets, the state or an agent
thereof, may commence proceedings to sell the vehicle.
   (D)   Exception. If a person purchases a vehicle from which the license
plate has been removed, pursuant to 47 O.S. § 1112.2, the person may operate
the vehicle for five days from the date of purchase without a license plate, if
a dated notarized bill of sale is carried in the vehicle.
   (E)   Violation (less than 90 days). A violation of this section shall have
a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs.
   (F)   Violation (excess of 90 days). A violation of this section shall have
a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 7-2-2019)
§ 6-1-14 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a truck on any street, road or highway that is
not designated as part of a truck route.
   (B)   Exceptions to prohibition:
      (1)   When the destination of the truck requires traveling on streets not
part of the truck route for a delivery to or from a customer or to provide a
service at a residence or business. In such an event, the route must be limited
to the minimum necessary to accomplish the delivery or service call;
      (2)   Buses;
      (3)   Transit vehicles;
      (4)   Firetrucks, military or other emergency vehicles;
      (5)   Road construction and maintenance equipment, while vehicle is being
used for this purpose;
      (6)   Utility service vehicles;
      (7)   Farm tractors, implements, combines, flatbeds, farm trucks no
greater than 30 feet in length; and
      (8)   Sport utility vehicles or light or full size pickups.
   (C)   Truck routes are designated as the state highways:
 
Street/Road       Start Point               End Point
30th Street       U.S. Highway 412          Southgate Road
Breckinridge Road 78th Street               16th Street
Purdue Avenue     U.S. Highway 81           State Route 64
Southgate Road    East from U.S. Highway 81
Willow Road       U.S. Highway 81           State Route 64 bypass
 
   (D)   A violation of this section that does not result in damage to either
person or property shall have a maximum fine of $200 plus costs for a first
offense, a maximum fine of $400 plus costs for a second offense and a maximum
fine of $600 plus costs for a third and subsequent offense.
   (E)   A violation of this section that does result in damage to either
person or property shall have a maximum fine of $300 plus costs for a first
offense, a maximum fine of $500 plus costs for a second offense and a maximum
fine of $750 plus costs for a third and subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-1-15 DOCUMENTS REQUIRED DURING OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Required documents. No person shall operate a motor vehicle, without
having one of the following documents in the motor vehicle, which upon demand
is to be exhibited to a police officer:
      (1)   Registration certificate or an official copy thereof;
      (2)   True copy of rental or lease documentation issued for a motor
vehicle;
      (3)   Registration certificate or an official copy thereof issued for a
replacement vehicle in the same registration period;
      (4)   Temporary receipt printed upon self-initiated electronic renewal of
a registration via the Internet; or
      (5)   Cab card issued for a vehicle registered under the International
Registration Plan.
   (B)   Exception. The provisions of subsection (A) above shall not apply
during the first 30 days after purchase of a motor vehicle.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section is punishable by a maximum fine
of $300 plus costs.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-20-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 1112.3
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
6-2-1   Enforcement officers; authority to direct traffic
   
6-2-2   Traffic division
   
6-2-3   Reserved
   
6-2-4   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
6-2-5   Application of provisions; exceptions
   
6-2-6   Obedience to persons authorized to direct traffic
   
6-2-7   Eluding police officer
§ 6-2-1 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   (A)   State and local traffic laws. The officers of the Police Department,
or such officers or crossing guards as are assigned by the Chief of Police,
shall enforce the traffic laws of the City and the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in the City.
   (B)   Directing traffic. Officers of the Police Department, or such officers
or crossing guards as are assigned by the Chief of Police, are hereby
authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with
traffic laws; provided that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department
may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of
the traffic laws.
   (C)   Fire Department officer. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the
scene of a fire, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat
or in the immediate vicinity.
(1994 Code, § 20-36)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate traffic by means of police officers, see 47
O.S. § 15-102(a)(2)
§ 6-2-2 TRAFFIC DIVISION.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established in the Police Department the
Traffic Division to be under the control of a police captain appointed by and
directly responsible to the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Duties. The Traffic Division shall, with such aid as may be rendered
by other members of the Police Department, enforce the street traffic
regulations, and the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the
City, make arrests for traffic violations, investigate accidents and cooperate
with the City and other officers of the City in the administration of the
traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions and
to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the Division by the Traffic
Ordinances.
   (C)   Record of traffic violations.
      (1)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the
traffic ordinances or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has been
charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such alleged
offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types of violations
and the total of each. The record shall be maintained complete for at least the
most recent five-year period.
      (2)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall
be serially numbered.
      (3)   All such records and reports shall be public records.
(1994 Code, §§ 20-46, 20-47 and 20-48)
§ 6-2-3 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 6-2-4 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement authority. The City Manager is hereby empowered to make
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of this title and to
make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain
in effect for more than 90 days.
   (B)   Test traffic control devices. The City Manager may test traffic
control devices under actual conditions of traffic.
(1994 Code, § 20-37)
§ 6-2-5 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Vehicles upon highways. The provisions of this title relating to the
operation of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon the
highways, except:
      (1)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section; and
      (2)   The provisions of §
6-1-6 concerning the duties in regard to accidents and §§
6-5-7 and
6-5-8 shall also apply to public parking lots.
   (B)   Persons riding animals or driving animal drawn vehicles. Every person
riding an animal or driving any animal driven vehicle upon a roadway shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to the driver of a vehicle by this title, except those provisions of this title
which by their very nature have no application.
   (C)   Persons working on highways. Unless specifically made applicable, the
provisions of this title, except those contained in §
6-5-1, shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment, while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway, or to persons, motor
vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in construction,
maintenance or repair of public utilities; provided that all highway and public
utility operations shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals,
devices or flagmen, but the provisions of this title shall apply to such
persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privilege set forth in this subsection (D), but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      (2)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         (a)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property; and
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions.
      (3)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when such vehicle is making use of audible and visual signals
meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 12-218, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      (4)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (E)   Exemption for military convoy. The military forces of the United
States and organizations of the National Guard, performing any military duty,
shall not be restricted by municipal traffic regulations, and shall have the
right-of-way on any street or highway through which they may pass against all,
except carriers of the United States mail, fire engines, ambulances and police
vehicles in the necessary discharge of their respective duties. Said mounted
military moving in convoy shall have lights burning, with lead and trail
vehicles prominently marked and shall travel, while inside the corporate limits
of the City, in compliance with such speeds as are legally posted within the
corporate limits of the City, and shall maintain a closed interval of not more
than 75 feet.
   (F)   Public officers and employees. The provisions of this title applicable
to drivers of vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state or any county,
city, town, district or any other political subdivision of the state, subject
to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this title.
(1994 Code, §§ 20-3 and 20-7—20-11) (2003 Code)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 and 11-103—11-107
§ 6-2-6 OBEDIENCE TO PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic. A violation of this section
shall have a maximum penalty of $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 1-23-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-103
§ 6-2-7 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER.
   No operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible signal,
a red light and a siren from a police officer driving a motor vehicle showing
it to be an official police, sheriff or highway patrol car directing the said
operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall willfully increase his speed or
extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to elude such police
officer. A violation of this section shall have a maximum penalty of $750 plus
costs.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 1-23-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 540A
CHAPTER 3: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
6-3-1   Location and existence ratified
   
6-3-2   Authority to install traffic control devices
   
6-3-3   Manual and specifications
   
6-3-4   Obedience to devices
   
6-3-5   Effect of presence or absence of signs
   
6-3-6   Traffic control signal legend
   
6-3-7   Pedestrian control signals
   
6-3-8   Flashing signals
   
6-3-9   Lane use control signals
   
6-3-10   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
6-3-11   Interference with devices, railroad signs or signals
§ 6-3-1 LOCATION AND EXISTENCE RATIFIED.
   The location and existence of all official traffic control signs, signals,
devices and markings, including parking meters, as of the adoption date of this
title, are hereby ratified and shall be deemed to have been approved by the
City Council.
(1994 Code, § 20-76)
§ 6-3-2 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   Traffic control shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
signs, signals and devices when and as required by ordinance or the City
Manager as authorized in this title to make effective the provisions of all
ordinances and regulations, and may place and maintain such additional traffic
control devices as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic
ordinances of the City or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic, upon
the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation.
(1994 Code, § 20-77)
§ 6-3-3 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the “Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” approved by the Federal Highway
Administration. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location
throughout the City. All traffic control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions hereof or state law shall be “official traffic
control devices”.
(1994 Code, § 20-78)
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic control devices to conform to state specifications, see 47
O.S. § 15-106
§ 6-3-4 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this title, unless otherwise directed by a crossing guard,
traffic or police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this title. A violation of this section that
does not result in damage to either property or person shall have a maximum
penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in
damage to either property or person shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus
costs.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(a)
§ 6-3-5 EFFECT OF PRESENCE OR ABSENCE OF SIGNS.
   No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(1994 Code, § 20-80)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(b)
§ 6-3-6 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Signal indications. Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control
signals exhibiting different colored lights or colored lighted arrows
successively one at a time, or in combination, only the colors green, red and
yellow shall be used, except for special pedestrian signals carrying a word
legend, and said lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows.
      (1)   Green indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal, except when
prohibited under §
6-1-12(B), may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn, but vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or on adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal, as
provided in §
6-3-7(A), pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green
signal is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Steady yellow indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow
arrow signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being
terminated or that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as provided in
§
6-3-7(A), are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the
roadway before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to
cross the roadway.
      (3)   Steady red indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until an indication to
proceed is shown, except as provided in subsection (A)(3)(b) below.
         (b)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, vehicular
traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
turn right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street after
stopping as required by subsection (A)(3)(a) above. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as
provided in §
6-3-7(A), pedestrians facing a steady circular red signal alone shall not enter
the roadway.
   (B)   Application of provisions. In the event an official traffic control
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the
provisions of this section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions
which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made
at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made,
but, in the absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the
signal. A violation of this section shall have a maximum penalty of $500 plus
costs.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-202
§ 6-3-7 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Signal indications. Whenever special pedestrian control signals
exhibiting the words “Walk” or “Wait” or “Don’t Walk” are in place, such
signals shall indicate as follows.
      (1)   “Walk”. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way in
the direction of the signal by the drivers of all vehicles.
      (2)   “Wait” or “Don’t Walk”. No pedestrian shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his crossing on the walk sign shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
island while the wait signal is showing.
   (B)   School crossing signals. Whenever a pedestrian actuated school
crossing signal is provided, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
and pedestrians in accordance with §§
6-3-6 and
6-3-7 (A).
(1994 Code, §§ 20-82 and 20-85)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-203 and 11-205
§ 6-3-8 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Signal indications. Whenever an illuminated red or yellow signal is
used in a traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular
traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or pass such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Exception, railroad crossings. This section shall not apply at
railroad grade crossings. Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad
grade crossings shall be governed by the rules set forth in §§
6-5-5(A) and (B).
(1994 Code, § 20-83)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-204
§ 6-3-9 LANE USE CONTROL SIGNALS.
   When lane use control signals are placed over individual lanes, said signals
shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles as follows.
   (A)   Green indication. Vehicular traffic may travel in any lane over which
a green signal is shown.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication. Vehicular traffic is thereby warned that a
lane control change is being made.
   (C)   Steady red indication. Vehicular traffic shall not enter or travel in
any lane over which a red signal is shown.
   (D)   Flashing yellow indication. Vehicular traffic may use the lane only
for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(1994 Code, § 20-84)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-204.1
§ 6-3-10 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   Placement. No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view
of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports
to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control
device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (C)   Public nuisance; removal. Every such prohibited sign, signal or
marking is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the authority having
jurisdiction over the highway is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause
it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   Compliance with manual. No sign shall be placed upon any street, alley
or right-of-way that is not authorized by the “Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices”. A violation of this section shall have a maximum penalty of
$500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-206
§ 6-3-11 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. A violation of this section shall have a maximum penalty of
$500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-207
CHAPTER 4: OVERTAKING AND PASSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
6-4-1   Driving on right side of roadway
   
6-4-2   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
6-4-3   Overtaking vehicle on left
   
6-4-4   Overtaking on right permitted in certain instances
   
6-4-5   Other limitations on driving to left of center of roadway
   
6-4-6   No passing zones
   
6-4-7   One-way streets and rotary traffic islands
   
6-4-8   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
6-4-9   Following too closely
   
6-4-10   Driving on divided highways
   
6-4-11   Restricted access
   
6-4-12   Restrictions on use of controlled access roadway
§ 6-4-1 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Exceptions. Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be
driven upon the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided that any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; and
      (5)   Upon a roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic.
   (B)   Slow moving vehicles. Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at
less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right hand lane when available
for traffic, or as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
   (C)   Four lane roadways. Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for
moving traffic and providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall
be driven to the left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized
by official traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left side
of the center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use
such lanes, or except as permitted under subsection (A)(2) above. However, this
subsection (C) shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or
driveway.
   (D)   Violation not resulting in collision or injury. A violation of this
section that does not result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs.
   (E)   Violation resulting in collision or injury. A violation of this
section that does result in collision or injury to either person or property
shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-301
§ 6-4-2 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. A
violation of this section that does not result in collision or injury to either
person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation
of this section that does result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-302
§ 6-4-3 OVERTAKING VEHICLE ON LEFT.
   (A)   Generally. The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing
of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations,
exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction, which requires moving his vehicle from one lane of traffic to
another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety and shall
proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or mechanical device.
   (B)   Limitations. No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center
of the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury
to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-303 and 11-305
§ 6-4-4 OVERTAKING ON RIGHT PERMITTED IN CERTAIN INSTANCES.
   (A)   Conditions for overtaking on right. The driver of a vehicle may
overtake and pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following
conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   Safety consideration. The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass
another vehicle upon the right only under conditions permitting such movement
in safety. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement
or main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury
to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-304
§ 6-4-5 OTHER LIMITATIONS ON DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Prohibited areas, conditions. No vehicle shall be driven on the left
side of the roadway under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway, where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of, or traversing, any
intersection or railroad grade crossing unless otherwise indicated by official
traffic control devices; or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching when within 100 feet
of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (B)   Exceptions. The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way
roadway, nor under the conditions described in §
6-4-1(A)(2), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley,
private road or driveway.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury
to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-306
§ 6-4-6 NO PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   Determination of zones; compliance. The City Council is hereby
authorized, on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, to
determine those portions of any highway where overtaking and passing or driving
to the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by
appropriate signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of
such zones; and when such signs and markings are in place and clearly visible
to an ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions thereof.
   (B)   Passing prohibited. Where signs or markings are in place to define a
no passing zone as set forth in subsection (A) above, no driver shall at any
time drive to the left side of the roadway within such no passing zone or on
the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark such no passing zone
throughout its length. A violation of this subsection (B) that does not result
in collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum
penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (B) that does result
in collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum
penalty of $200 plus costs.
   (C)   School zones. No person shall at any time pass another vehicle within
a school zone. A violation of this subsection (C) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (C) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-4-7 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Compliance with signs. Upon a roadway designated and signposted for
one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   Temporary one-way streets.
      (1)   Temporary one-way streets shall only be allowed where designated by
the police, traffic control or pursuant to approved traffic control plans for
construction to temporarily control traffic to control congestion and provide
for safe operation of the street system, and on local streets in a school zone
for controlling school traffic congestion. When a street is designated as a
temporary one-way street for school traffic control, the abutting school shall
be responsible for placing and removing the temporary signage. Vehicles shall
be driven only in the direction designated by approved signage.
      (2)   Requests for designation of a temporary one-way street for school
traffic control shall be made to the appropriate board or committee designated
to review traffic related requests, and any recommendations for establishing a
temporary one-way street shall be forwarded to the City Council for
consideration.
   (C)   Passing rotary traffic islands. A vehicle passing around a rotary
traffic island shall be driven only to the right of such islands.
   (D)   Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury
to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-308
§ 6-4-8 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
   (A)   Changing lanes. A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable
entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the
driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with safety, and
then given a signal, not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle,
of his intention to change lanes.
   (B)   Use of center lane. Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes,
a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane, except when overtaking and
passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center
lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left
turn or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic
moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give
notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Slow moving vehicles, use of right lane. Upon a roadway which is
divided into four or more lanes, a vehicle proceeding at less than the maximum
posted speed, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation, shall
not impede the normal flow of traffic by driving in the left lane. Such vehicle
shall be driven in the right hand lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left
turn at an intersection or into a private road or driveway.
   (D)   Posting signs; compliance required. Official signs may be erected
directing slow moving traffic to use a designated lane or designating those
lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the
center of the roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of
every such sign.
   (E)   Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury
to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-309
§ 6-4-9 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   Reasonable distance. The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of such vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the
highway.
   (B)   Vehicle drawing another vehicle. The driver of any truck or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a roadway outside of a
business or residential district and which is following another truck or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle shall, whenever conditions permit, leave
sufficient space so that an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy such space
without danger, except that this shall not prevent a motor truck or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle from overtaking and passing any like vehicle or
another vehicle.
   (C)   Vehicles with more than six tires. No vehicle which has more than six
tires in contact with the road shall approach from the rear of another vehicle
which has more than six tires in contact with the road closer than 300 feet,
except when passing such said vehicle.
   (D)   Caravan or motorcade. Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway
outside of a business or residential district in a caravan or motorcade,
whether or not towing other vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow
sufficient space between each such vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to
enable any other vehicle to enter and occupy such space without danger. The
distance between such vehicles shall be a minimum of 200 feet under all
conditions. This provision shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (E)   Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury
to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-310
§ 6-4-10 DRIVING ON DIVIDED HIGHWAYS.
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right hand roadway unless directed or permitted to use
another roadway by official traffic control devices or police officers. No
vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier
or section, except through a paved opening in such physical barrier or dividing
section or median or at a paved crossover or intersection as established unless
specifically permitted by the City or by police officers. A violation of this
section that does not result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this
section that does result in collision or injury to either person or property
shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-311
§ 6-4-11 RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway,
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority. A
violation of this section that does not result in collision or injury to either
person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation
of this section that does result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-312
§ 6-4-12 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS ROADWAY.
   The City Council on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation,
may, with respect to any controlled access roadway under the City’s
jurisdiction, prohibit the use of any such roadway by pedestrians, bicycles or
other nonmotorized traffic or by any person operating a motor driven cycle.
Official signs shall be erected and maintained on the controlled access roadway
on which such regulations are applicable, and when so erected, no person shall
disobey the restrictions stated on such signs. A violation of this section that
does not result in collision or injury to either person or property shall have
a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this section that does
result in collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum
penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-17, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-313
CHAPTER 5: DRIVING RULES
Section
   
6-5-1   Speed and related restrictions
   
6-5-2   Right-of-way
   
6-5-3   Turning movements
   
6-5-4   Starting parked vehicle
   
6-5-5   Special stops; railroad crossings; school buses
   
6-5-6   Reserved
   
6-5-7   Reckless driving
   
6-5-8   Attention to driving required
   
6-5-9   Driving or parking only on roadway or designated area
   
6-5-10   Overtaking and passing bicycles
§ 6-5-1 SPEED AND RELATED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any person driving a vehicle on a highway shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than, nor less than, is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway, the
condition of the vehicle, weather, the amount of light or darkness, the
presence of pedestrians and/or bicyclists and any other conditions then
existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway at a speed
greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead. A driver who operates a vehicle in violation of this section
may be charged with the offense of “careless driving”. The violation of this
section is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 plus costs.
      (2)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with subsection (A)(1) above, the limits specified in this title, or
established hereinafter, shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall
drive any vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of the maximum limit.
      (3)   No person shall drive a school bus at a speed greater than a
maximum of 50 mph, except on turnpikes and interstate highways where the
maximum shall be 55 mph.
      (4)   No person shall drive any vehicle or combination of vehicles with
solid rubber or metal tires at a speed greater than the maximum of ten mph.
      (5)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of subsection (A)(1) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
   (B)   Citywide speed limit. All streets of the City shall be in the 25 mph
speed zone, unless otherwise designated and posted in accordance with an
engineering and traffic investigation.
      (1)   Violation of the posted or unposted speed limit has a maximum fine
of $100 plus costs, if the violator is traveling ten mph or less above the
posted speed limit.
      (2)   If the violator is traveling more than ten mph above the posted or
unposted speed limit, the fine shall not exceed $150 plus costs.
   (C)   Minimum speed. No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow
speed as to impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. A
violation of this subsection (C) that does not result in collision or injury to
either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A
violation of this subsection (C) that does result in collision or injury to
either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
   (D)   Special speed limitations.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure,
when such structure is signposted as provided in this section.
      (2)   The City Council may conduct an investigation of any bridge or
other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if it shall
thereupon find that such structure cannot, with safety to itself, withstand
vehicles driving at speeds otherwise permissible under this section, it shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of vehicles which such structure can
safely withstand, and may cause and permit suitable signs stating such maximum
speed to be erected and maintained at a distance of 100 feet before each end of
such structure.
      (3)   Where any highway shall be under construction or repair or a detour
shall have been designated by reason of construction or repairs in progress and
the City Council or the City Manager shall have determined a maximum safe,
careful and prudent speed on such highway or detour during the period of such
construction or repairs and shall have plainly posted at each terminus thereof
and at not less than each half-mile along the route thereof such determined
maximum speed, no person shall drive any vehicle upon such portion of such
highway or upon such detour at a speed in excess of the speed so determined and
posted. A violation of this subsection (D) where the violator is traveling ten
miles per hour or less over the posted speed limit shall have a maximum fine of
$100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection where the violator is traveling
more than ten miles per hour over the posted speed limit shall have a maximum
fine of $200 plus costs.
      (4)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
subsection (D), proof of said determination of the maximum speed by the City
and the existence of said signs shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety as provided in subsections
(D)(2) and (D)(3) above.
   (E)   Special speed limitation on motor driven cycles.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor driven cycle, mopeds, gopeds and
motorized skateboards at a speed greater than the legally posted speed limit;
provided that in no event shall a person drive at a speed greater than 35 mph.
Moreover, these specified cycles shall at all times conform to subsection (A)
(1) above.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motorized scooter at a speed greater than
the legally posted speed limit; provided that in no event shall an operator
drive a motorized scooter at a speed greater than 25 mph.
      (3)   Penalty. Violation of this subsection (E) has a maximum fine of
$100 plus costs.
   (F)   Violations. In every charge of violation of any speed regulation in
this section, the complaint, also the summons or notice to appear, shall
specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven, also the
maximum speed applicable within the district or at the location.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-136, 11-801 and 11-804—11-806
§ 6-5-2 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Vehicle approaching or entering intersection.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle on a road approaching an intersection with
a state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
      (2)   When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, except in subsection (A)(1) above, the
driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle
on the right.
      (3)   The right-of-way rules declared in subsections (A)(1) and (A)(2)
above are modified at through highways and otherwise as hereinafter stated in
this title.
      (4)   A violation of this subsection (A) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (A) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
   (B)   Vehicle turning left at intersection. The driver of a vehicle within
an intersection intending to turn to the left shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within the
intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said
driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when and as required by
this title, may make such left turn and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall yield the right
of way to the vehicle making the left turn. A violation of this subsection (B)
that does not result in collision or injury to either person or property shall
have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (B)
that does result in collision or injury to either person or property shall have
a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
   (C)   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection.
      (1)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by
stop signs or yield signs as authorized by statute.
      (2)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop as required by §
6-5-5(C)(4), and, after having stopped, shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on said highway as to constitute an immediate hazard,
but said driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle so proceeding.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in
obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions, or shall stop if necessary as provided in §
6-5-5(C)(5), and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. Said driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding; provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his failure to yield the right-of-way.
      (4)   Where two or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution
signs or signals on two or more intersecting cross-streets, and are approaching
so as to enter the intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is
required to stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right-of-
way. Where each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right
shall have the right-of-way. Where each vehicle is required to take caution,
the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right-of-way. Where one
vehicle is required to stop and the other to slow or take caution, the one
slowing or taking caution shall have the right-of-way. Where one vehicle is
required to slow and the other to take caution, the one required to take
caution shall have the right-of-way. In any event, a vehicle which has already
entered the intersection shall have the right-of-way over one which has not so
entered the intersection.
      (5)   A violation of this subsection (C) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (C) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
   (D)   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway. The driver of
a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private road or driveway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said highway. A
violation of this subsection (D) that does not result in collision or injury to
either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A
violation of this subsection (D) that does result in collision or injury to
either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
   (E)   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. §
12-218, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
      (2)   This subsection (E) shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
      (3)   Violation of this subsection (E) has a maximum fine of $500 plus
costs.
   (F)   Passing stationary emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary
authorized emergency vehicle that is displaying a flashing combination red or
blue light or any combination of red or blue lights shall:
         (a)   If traveling on a highway that consists of two or more lanes
that carry traffic in the same direction or travel as that of the driver, the
driver shall proceed with due caution and shall, if possible, and with due
regard to the road, weather and traffic conditions, change lanes into a lane
that is not adjacent to the stationary authorized emergency vehicle; or if the
driver is not able to change lanes or if to do so would be unsafe, the driver
shall proceed with due caution and reduce the speed of the motor vehicle to a
safe speed for the existing road, weather and traffic conditions; and
         (b)   If traveling on a highway other than a highway described in
subsection (F)(1)(a) above, the driver shall proceed with due caution and
reduce the speed of the motor vehicle to a safe speed for the existing road,
weather and traffic conditions.
      (2)   This subsection (F) does not relieve the operator of a stationary
authorized emergency vehicle from the consequences of reckless disregard for
the safety of all persons and property upon the highway. The penalty for this
subsection (F) shall have a maximum fine of $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-314 and 11-401—11-405
§ 6-5-3 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Required position and method of turning at intersection.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall
do so as follows.
         (a)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
         (b)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the
right of such centerline where it enters the intersection, and, after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever
practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to
the left of the center of the intersection.
         (c)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection
where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways,
the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and, after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection
as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
      (2)   The City Council on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation, may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that a different
course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles turning at
an intersection, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no driver of
a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by such markers, buttons or signs.
      (3)   A violation of this subsection (A) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (A) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
   (B)   Turning around (U-turn) prohibited at certain places. No vehicle shall
be turned to proceed in the opposite direction at any of the following places:
      (1)   Upon any curve;
      (2)   Upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade;
      (3)   Where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other
vehicle approaching from either direction, within 500 feet;
      (4)   At any intersection regulated by a traffic control light, except
where specifically permitted by official signs;
      (5)   At any intersection regulated by a four-way stop sign;
      (6)   At any place unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic; and
      (7)   A violation of this subsection (B) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (B) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
   (C)   Turning movements and required signals.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in subsection (A)
above, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn
any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
      (4)   A violation of this subsection (C) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (C) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
   (D)   Signals by hand and arm or signal lamps.
      (1)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise
provided in subsection (D)(2) below.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and
required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter measurement shall apply to any single
vehicle, also to any combination of vehicles.
      (3)   A violation of this subsection (D) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (D) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
   (E)   Method of giving hand and arm signals. All signals herein required
given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward; and
      (4)   A violation of this subsection (E) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (E) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-601, 11-602 and 11-604—11-606
§ 6-5-4 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. A violation of this
section that does not result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this
section that does result in collision or injury to either person or property
shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-603
§ 6-5-5 SPECIAL STOPS; RAILROAD CROSSINGS; SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train.
      (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this subsection (A), the
driver of such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet,
from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he can do
so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         (c)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of
the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and
         (d)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
      (2)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
      (3)   A violation of this subsection (A) shall have a maximum fine of
$200 plus costs.
   (B)   Certain vehicles to stop at all railroad grade crossings.
      (1)   Vehicles with passengers for hire. The driver of any motor vehicle
carrying passengers for hire, or of any school bus carrying any school child,
or of any vehicle carrying explosive substances or flammable liquids as a cargo
or part of a cargo, before crossing at grade any track or tracks of a railroad,
shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of such railroad and while so stopped shall listen and look in
both directions along such track for any approaching train, and for signals
indicating the approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall
not proceed until he can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and
upon proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any said vehicle shall
cross only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for
changing gears while traversing such crossing and the driver shall not shift
gears while crossing the track or tracks.
      (2)   Crossings. No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police
officer or a traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed.
      (3)   Penalty. A violation of this subsection (B) has a maximum fine of
$500 plus costs.
   (C)   Stop signs and yield signs.
      (1)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by
stop signs or yield signs as authorized by state statute.
      (2)   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway; however, such yield signs shall not
be erected upon the approaches of but one of the intersecting streets.
      (3)   Every stop sign shall bear the word “Stop”. Every yield sign
hereafter erected or replaced shall bear the word “Yield”. Every stop sign and
every yield sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by internal
illumination, or by a floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by
efficient reflecting elements in or on the face of the sign.
      (4)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      (5)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
      (6)   A violation of this subsection (C) shall have a maximum fine of
$200 plus costs.
   (D)   Emerging from alley, driveway or building. The driver of the vehicle
within a business or residence district emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway. A violation of this subsection (D) shall have a maximum fine of $200
plus costs.
   (E)   Meeting or overtaking stopped school bus.
      (1)   Stopped school bus. The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a
school bus that is stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on
which the red loading signals are in operation, is to stop his vehicle before
it reaches the school bus and not proceed until the loading signals are
deactivated and then proceed past such school bus at a speed which is
reasonable and with due caution for the safety of such school children and
other occupants.
      (2)   Separate roadways. The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with
separate roadways need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is
on a different roadway or when upon a controlled access highway and the school
bus is stopped in a loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway
and where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
      (3)   Penalty. A violation of this subsection (E) shall have a maximum
fine of $400 plus costs, with a state-mandated special assessment of $100 that
is to be submitted to the Oklahoma Treasury and then appropriated to the
Oklahoma Board of Education pursuant to 47 O.S. § 11-705(A) and 70 O.S. § 9-
119.
   (F)   Meeting or overtaking church bus.
      (1)   A church bus is a vehicle operated by a non-profit religious
organization which transports persons including school age children to and from
religious services.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a church bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge passengers, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, is to stop his vehicle before it reaches the church
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for the
safety of such occupants.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with separate roadways need
not stop upon meeting or passing a church bus which is on a different roadway
or when upon a controlled access highway and the church bus is stopped in a
loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
      (4)   A violation of this subsection (F) shall have a maximum fine of
$200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 2020-06, passed 5-19-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-701—11-705 and 11-705.1 and 70 O.S. §
9-119
§ 6-5-6 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 6-5-7 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be deemed reckless driving for any person to drive a motor vehicle
in a careless or wanton manner without regard for the safety of persons or
property or in violation of the conditions outlined in §
6-5-1(A). A violation of this section has a maximum fine of $500 plus costs
unless the person has previously been convicted of a violation of this section,
then the violation of this section shall have a maximum fine of $750 plus
costs.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-901
§ 6-5-8 ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Full time and attention to driving. The operator of every vehicle,
while driving, shall devote his full time and attention to such driving. A
violation of this section that does not result in collision or injury to either
person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation
of this section that does result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
   (B)   Composing, sending, reading text message while vehicle in motion.
      (1)   Prohibited use of handheld device. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle on any street or highway within the City
while using a handheld electronic communication device to manually compose,
send or read an electronic text message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
      (2)   Violation. The violation of this subsection (B) shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than $100 plus costs.
      (3)   Exception. The provisions of subsection (A) above shall not apply
if the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication
device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following
regarding an imminent emergency situation:
         (a)   An emergency response operator;
         (b)   A hospital, physician’s office or health clinic;
         (c)   A provider of ambulance services;
         (d)   A provider of firefighting services; or
         (e)   A law enforcement agency.
      (4)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
          CELLULAR TELEPHONE. An analog or digital wireless telephone
authorized by the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency
bandwidth reserved for cellular telephones.
         COMPOSE, SEND or READ. With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
         ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic device that permits the
user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
         TEXT MESSAGE. Includes a text based message, instant message,
electronic message, photo, video or electronic mail.
   (C)   Use of cellular telephone or electronic communication device by a
person operating a commercial motor vehicle.
      (1)   Unlawful use of electronic device in a commercial vehicle. It shall
be unlawful for any person to operate a commercial motor vehicle or for a
public transit driver to operate a motor vehicle on any street or highway
within this state while:
         (a)   Using a cellular telephone or electronic communication device to
write, send or read a text based communication;
         (b)   Using a handheld mobile telephone while operating a commercial
motor vehicle; or
         (c)   For the purposes of this subsection (C), using a handheld mobile
telephone is permissible for drivers of a commercial motor vehicle when
necessary to communicate with law enforcement officials or other emergency
services.
      (2)   Violation. The violation of this subsection (C) shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than $500 plus costs.
      (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection (C), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
           CELLULAR TELEPHONE. An analog or digital wireless telephone
authorized by the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency
bandwidth reserved for cellular telephones.
         ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic device that permits the
user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
voice activated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle.
         OPERATE. Operating on a street or highway, including while temporarily
stationary because of traffic, a traffic control device or other momentary
delays. OPERATING does not include when the driver of a commercial motor
vehicle has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off a street or highway and
has halted in a location where the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
         PUBLIC TRANSIT DRIVER.
            1.   Any operator of a public transit vehicle owned and operated by
the state, any public trust authority, county, municipality, town or city
within this state;
            2.   Any operator of a school bus or multi-passenger motor vehicle
owned and approved to operate by the Oklahoma Department of Education or any
school district within this state; or
            3.   Any operator, conductor or driver of a locomotive engine,
railway car or train of cars.
         WRITE, SEND OR READ A TEXT BASED COMMUNICATION. Also known as TEXTING.
Manually entering alphanumeric text into, sending text or reading text from an
electronic device, and includes, but is not limited to, short message service
(SMS), e-mailing, instant messaging (IM), a command or request to access a
world wide web page or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry, for present or future communication. As used in this subsection (C),
TEXTING does not include:
            1.   Using voice commands to select or enter a telephone number, an
extension number or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic
device for the purpose of initiating or receiving a phone call;
            2.   Inputting, selecting or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
            3.   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions for a
purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in this part, including, but not
limited to, fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones,
citizens band radios and music players.
      (4)   Exception. This subsection (C) shall not apply to railroads and
railroad operating employees regulated by the Federal Railroad Administration.
(Ord. 2015-44, passed 12-1-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-901(b)—11-901(d)
§ 6-5-9 DRIVING OR PARKING ONLY ON ROADWAY OR DESIGNATED AREA.
   No person shall drive, operate or park a motor vehicle upon any public
property or, without permission, on private property, except on a roadway or
other area especially designated for driving or parking by such motor vehicles,
and except that minibikes and motorcycles may be driven on the places and in
the areas specifically signposted and designated.
(1994 Code, § 20-21)
§ 6-5-10 OVERTAKING AND PASSING BICYCLES.
   (A)   When overtaking and passing a bicycle which is proceeding in the same
direction, and is as close as is safe to the right hand lane of the roadway, a
person driving a motor vehicle shall exercise due care by leaving a safe
distance between the motor vehicle and the bicycle of not less than three feet.
The person driving the vehicle must remain at least three feet away from the
bicycle until the entire vehicle and any trailers or other attachments are
safely past the overtaken bicycle.
   (B)   The violation of the provisions of this section shall result in a fine
not to exceed $500 in addition to any court costs.
(Ord. 2012-19, passed 9-6-2012)
CHAPTER 6: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
6-6-1   Presumption owner was driver of illegally parked vehicle
   
6-6-2   Authority to remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
6-6-3   Parking prohibited in specified places
   
6-6-4   Parallel parking
   
6-6-5   Angle parking
   
6-6-6   Certain vehicles exempt
   
6-6-7   Parking in spaces designated for disabled persons
   
6-6-8   Outside business or residence district
   
6-6-9   Posted private property
   
6-6-10   Congested areas
   
6-6-11   Stopping in alleys
   
6-6-12   One-way roadways
   
6-6-13   Fire zone or fire lane
   
6-6-14   Obstructing traffic
   
6-6-15   Permitted parking lots; display of permit
   
6-6-16   Passenger and freight loading zones
   
6-6-17   Parking in restricted areas
   
6-6-18   Metered parking
   
6-6-19   Parking in city parks after hours
§ 6-6-1 PRESUMPTION OWNER WAS DRIVER OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
(1994 Code, § 20-274)
§ 6-6-2 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Police authority to remove. Whenever any police officer finds a
vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any of the provisions of §
6-6-8, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position
off the paved or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Obstructing traffic. Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle
unattended upon any bridge or causeway or in any underpass where such vehicle
constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to
provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of
safety.
   (C)   Preventing highway maintenance. When any vehicle is left standing or
abandoned upon a highway in violation of this section and at such a place or in
such manner as to interfere or prevent the maintenance of said highway, the
Police Department may remove such vehicle or request the driver or other person
in charge thereof to move the same to some place of safety off the highway
without charge to the owner of the vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 20-262)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1002
§ 6-6-3 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No parking places enumerated. No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle, except when necessary to deliver mail if employed by the United States
Postal Service or its agents, or to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (4)   Within an intersection, meaning within the radius and/or within 20
feet from point of curvature and tangency or straight line at the end or
beginning of curve, where two or more different approaches intersect;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection or any designated
school crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of the roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station; and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of said entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street, except for the purpose of loading or unloading;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
within a highway underpass;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, parking or
standing;
      (15)   Upon any street for the purpose of displaying such vehicle or the
contents thereof for sale or trade or with a “for sale” sign thereon or for the
purpose of repairing, adjusting or doing mechanical work on the said vehicle;
      (16)   In front of a hotel or theater, except for the purposes of loading
and unloading;
      (17)   Across any line designating a parking space;
      (18)   Within a school zone on the side of a street next to the school
buildings or playground thereof when no parking signs are posted;
      (19)   Between the curb of a paved street or the side drainage ditch of
an unpaved street and the nearest street boundary line;
      (20)   In any fire lane; or
      (21)   On top of a water meter.
   (B)   Specific streets or parts of streets. No person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle on the following streets or portions of streets: on Owen K.
Garriott Road and Van Buren Street or the shoulder of such road or street.
   (C)   Trucks; large vehicles. No person shall park a vehicle with a maximum
rated carrying capacity of one and one-half tons, or greater, on any street in
either of the following places:
      (1)   Within the Central Business District;
      (2)   Upon any street between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
provided, however, such limitations shall not apply in areas designated and set
aside for parking said vehicles, or to said vehicles that are in the process of
loading or standing as a necessary part of a repair or service for a period of
time not to exceed 24 hours;
      (3)   Light duty trailers and transporters, limited in size to seven feet
in width and 20 feet in length, and watercraft mounted on a trailer, may be
parked on the street only when attached to a vehicle and only when the trailer
or transport is equipped with a properly designed reflective lighting system;
or
      (4)   Travel trailers that exceed the size limitation found in subsection
(C)(3) above may be parked on the street for a period of no more than 24 hours
when attached to a vehicle and when equipped with a properly designed
reflective lighting system.
   (D)   Vehicle owner, prima facie evidence. In any prosecution for the
violation of the provisions of this section, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any of the provisions
hereof, together with proof that the person named in the complaint was at the
time of such parking of said vehicle the registered owner of such vehicle,
shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered
owner of such motor vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at
the point where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (E)   Noncompliance prohibited. No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful.
   (F)   Violation; fine. The fine for the violation of any of the provisions
of this section shall be $25.
(1994 Code, § 20-263)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions 47 O.S. § 11-1003
§ 6-6-4 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except as otherwise provided, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway
where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked with the right
hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the right hand
curb.
(1994 Code, § 20-264)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1004
§ 6-6-5 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Signs or markings. Upon those streets which have been signed or marked
by the City for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other
than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
markings.
   (B)   Permit for loading or unloading at angle to curb. Traffic control is
authorized to allow the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of
loading or unloading merchandise. Such permission may be issued either to the
owner or lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant
to such person the privilege as therein stated. No permittee or other person
shall violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(1994 Code, §§ 20-272 and 20-273)
§ 6-6-6 CERTAIN VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   Provisions of this chapter shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles,
or to vehicles or machinery used in the construction or maintenance of
highways, and such vehicles or machinery may be operated on any part of the
road, whether same is open to traffic or closed, when such operation is
necessary in the maintenance or construction of said highway; provided that the
person doing such maintenance or construction shall protect all such operations
with adequate warnings, signs, signals, lights, devices or flagmen.
(1994 Code, § 20-265)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1005
§ 6-6-7 PARKING IN SPACES DESIGNATED FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a
motor vehicle in any parking space on private property accessible to the public
and where the public is invited or public property that is designated and
posted as a reserved area for parking of motor vehicles of a physically
disabled person unless such person has applied for and been issued a detachable
insignia indicating physical disability pursuant to 47 O.S. § 15-112 or has a
physically disabled special license plate pursuant to 47 O.S. § 1135.1B(3) and
such insignia or license plate is displayed pursuant to state law.
   (B)   Additional prohibitions. It shall also be unlawful for any person to
place or park a motor vehicle with or without a physically disabled placard or
plate in any disabled parking space access aisle, wheelchair ramp, wheelchair
loading/unloading area or any portion thereof.
   (C)   Penalty. Violation of these provisions shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $200 plus costs. Provided, any person cited for a first offense of
subsection (A) above who has displayed a placard which has expired shall be
entitled to dismissal of such charge and shall not be required to pay the fine
or court costs if the person shall present to the court within 30 days of the
issuance of the citation a notice from the state that the person has received a
valid placard.
   (D)   Vehicles subject to tow. In addition, vehicles unlawfully parked in
violation of these provisions shall be subject to immediate tow by a licensed
tow truck operator at the request of the landowner, the duly appointed agent of
the landowner, at the request of any person unable to lawfully gain access to
or move their vehicle, at the request of any person unable to lawfully gain
access to the area blocked by the unlawfully parked vehicle or at the request
of appropriate law enforcement personnel. The owner of any vehicle unlawfully
parked in violation of these provisions shall pay any and all reasonable and
necessary costs associated with towing and storage of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2013-61, passed 12-17-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1007
§ 6-6-8 OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Parking restriction. Upon any highway outside of a business or
residence district, no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the
highway when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such
part of said highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles, and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle
which is disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of a highway in
such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(1994 Code, § 20-261)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1001
§ 6-6-9 POSTED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Permission required. It shall be unlawful to enter and place or park a
motor vehicle or a trailer upon the posted private property of another without
first obtaining permission from the landowner or the person in charge of such
property, except where said placing or parking is casual or involuntary.
   (B)   Complaint; burden of proof. In all cases where such entry is made and
parking occurred, and is complained of by the owner or legal occupant of the
premises, the burden is on the person making the entry to show that permission
for such entry was given.
   (C)   Nonliability of landowner. The landowner or person in charge of the
land shall not be liable for any damages which may occur to a trespassing
vehicle or trailer under the terms of this section, while the same is
trespassing or while it is being removed from his property, or while it is in
storage.
(1994 Code, § 20-266)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1006
§ 6-6-10 CONGESTED AREAS.
   (A)   Determination; posting of signs. The City Council may determine and
designate by proper signs places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   Prohibited parking. When official signs are erected at hazardous or
congested places as authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
(1994 Code, § 20-268)
§ 6-6-11 STOPPING IN ALLEYS.
   (A)   Loading or unloading of trucks. In one-way alleys, vehicles shall stop
to load or unload only on the left side of the alley. Trucks shall be permitted
to cross the street from one alley to another alley; all vehicles using the
street shall have the right-of-way over any truck or vehicle crossing from one
alley to another alley and any truck so crossing shall yield the right-of-way.
   (B)   Blocking alley. No vehicle shall stop in an alley for the purpose of
loading or unloading in such manner as to block the alley to other traffic. A
vehicle may park in an alley only for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, unloading or loading merchandise.
   (C)   Crossing sidewalks. All vehicles, upon leaving an alley, shall come to
a stop before crossing the sidewalk or place usually used by pedestrians for
walking. All pedestrians shall have the right-of-way over any vehicle leaving
an alley.
(1994 Code, § 20-269)
§ 6-6-12 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   If a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
(1994 Code, § 20-270)
§ 6-6-13 FIRE ZONE OR FIRE LANE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device, in a fire lane or fire zone.
(1994 Code, § 20-275)
§ 6-6-14 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(1994 Code, § 20-271)
§ 6-6-15 PERMITTED PARKING LOTS; DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   In lots that are identified as permitted parking lots with appropriate
signage, no person shall park or stand a vehicle within the lot without having
a valid permit displayed for the vehicle so parked.
(1994 Code, § 20-277)
§ 6-6-16 PASSENGER AND FREIGHT LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Passengers. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any
purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading
of passengers in a passenger curb loading zone during the hours indicated on
official signs. A person may otherwise stop, stand or park a vehicle in said
zone only when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   (B)   Freight.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any freight curb loading zone during the hours
indicated on official signs.
      (2)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a freight
curb loading zone for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation
of materials which is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
   (C)   Buses and taxicabs.
      (1)   Parking of buses and taxicabs. No driver of a bus or taxicab shall
park at any place other than at a bus stop or taxicab stand on any street in
any business district. This provision shall not prevent the driver of any such
vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking
regulations at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers.
      (2)   Use of bus and taxicab stands. No person shall stop, stand or park
a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop and a taxicab in a taxicab stand when
any such stop or stand has been officially designated and appropriately signed,
except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such zone
or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
(1994 Code, §§ 20-286, 20-287, 20-288 and 20-289)
§ 6-6-17 PARKING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   Parking signs required. If any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited on designated streets by the City on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation, appropriate signs shall be erected
giving notice thereof and no such regulations shall be effective unless said
signs are erected and in place.
   (B)   Parking time limitation, designated areas.
      (1)   When signs are erected in any public right-of-way giving notice of
a parking time limitation, no person shall park any vehicle in said area for a
period of time longer than the time designated on such signs.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall limit the proper authority from issuing more
than one ticket each day for any subsequent or continuing violation of any
parking time limitation by any vehicle, and such person parking such vehicle
shall be liable therefor.
      (3)   The fine for a violation of this subsection (B) shall be $10 if
paid within five days of the date the violation is issued. Any fine for a
violation of this subsection (B) not paid within this time period shall be
increased to $20.
   (C)   Parking at business establishment when closed. No person shall park a
motor vehicle or loiter on the driveway, parking area or any portion of the
premises of any drive-in restaurant, gasoline filling station or other place of
business when such place of business is not open to the public for business.
   (D)   Application of provisions; signs. The provisions of this section
prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at
those times herein specified or as indicated on official signs, except when it
is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or official traffic control
device.
   (E)   Regulations not exclusive. The provisions of this section imposing a
time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from complying with other
and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 6-6-18 METERED PARKING.
   (A)   Interpretation. This section shall be deemed and construed to be an
exercise of police power of the City. The installation and operation of parking
meters as herein provided is declared to be a measure for the control and
regulation of traffic and parking in the interest of public safety and welfare.
The fees required to be paid as herein provided for parking meter zones are
required for the purpose of enforcing the regulations and providing funds to
partially cover the expenses and costs of such enforcement.
   (B)   Designation of zones.
      (1)   Traffic control, in accordance with ordinances, shall, by
appropriate installation of parking meters, designate parking zones on streets
wherever traffic flow investigation and studies show the advisability thereof
in order to control traffic.
      (2)   The parking meter shall state the limit of time parking is
permitted in that zone.
   (C)   Designation of spaces. Traffic control shall cause to be marked off
individual parking meter spaces in the designated parking meter zones, and the
parking meter spaces shall be designated by lines painted or durably marked on
the curb or surface of the street. At each space so marked off, no vehicle
shall park in such a way that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the
limits of the space so designated.
   (D)   Installation of parking meters. In parking meter zones, traffic
control shall cause parking meters to be installed upon the curb or sidewalk
immediately adjacent to the parking meter spaces.
   (E)   Operation of parking meters.
      (1)   When any vehicle is parked in any parking meter space, the driver
of the vehicle shall immediately deposit or cause to be deposited in the meter
such coin of the United States as is required for such parking meter and as is
designated by proper directions on the meter, and failure to deposit such coin
shall constitute a violation hereof. Upon the deposit of such coin, the parking
space may be lawfully occupied by such vehicle during the period of time
prescribed by the meter; provided that a person placing a vehicle in a parking
meter space adjacent to a meter that indicates that unused time has been left
in the meter by the previous occupant of the space shall not be required to
deposit a coin so long as his occupancy of the space shall not exceed the
indicated unused parking time.
      (2)   If any vehicle shall remain parked in any parking meter space and
if the meter shall indicate such illegal parking, then and in that event, such
vehicle shall be considered as parking overtime and beyond the period of legal
parking time and such overtime parking shall be deemed a violation hereof.
   (F)   Parking time limits; rates.
      (1)   Parking or standing a vehicle in a parking space within a parking
meter zone shall be lawful for the period of time designated on the parking
meter upon the deposit of the required coin, upon a basis of the rates
established in §
2-6A-2. No vehicle shall be parked in a parking meter zone in excess of the
maximum time stated on that parking meter.
      (2)   The parking meters shall be operated in the parking meter zones
every day between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except Saturdays and
Sundays and the following designated holidays:
         (a)   January 1;
         (b)   The last Monday of May;
         (c)   Juneteenth;
         (d)   July 4;
         (e)   The first Monday in September;
         (f)   November 11;
         (g)   The day designated by the President of the United States as
Thanksgiving Day; and
         (h)   December 25.
   (G)   Providing for bus stops, taxicab stands and loading zones. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as prohibiting the City from providing for bus
stops and other spaces of similar nature, including loading zones and taxicab
stands, and properly designating and marking the same, within the parking meter
zones.
   (H)   Violations.
      (1)   No person shall:
         (a)   Cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle operated or driven by
him to be parked overtime or beyond the period of legal parking time
established for any parking meter zone, or to deposit in any parking meter any
coin for the purpose of parking beyond the maximum legal parking time for the
particular parking meter zone;
         (b)   Permit any vehicle to remain in any parking meter space while
the meter is displaying a signal indicating that the vehicle occupying such
parking meter space has already been parked beyond the period prescribed for
such parking space;
         (c)   Park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking meter
space or in such position that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the
area designated by such line or markings;
         (d)   Park anywhere within the parking meter zone, except in a parking
meter space;
         (e)   Injure, deface, tamper with, open, willfully break, destroy or
impair any parking meter, or to interfere with, destroy or impair by any means
the usefulness or normal functioning of any parking meter; or
         (d)   Deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any slugs,
devices or metal substance or other substitute for lawful coins.
      (2)   The fine for the violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall be $10 if paid within five days of the date the citation is issued. Any
fine for a violation of this section not paid within this time period shall be
increased to $20.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 6-6-19 PARKING IN CITY PARKS AFTER HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in a city park or city
park parking lot after hours for that park as provided under §
7-2-1. Any vehicle parked in city parks after hours shall be subject to a
parking citation and may be towed by the Enid Police Department.
CHAPTER 7: GENERAL MISCELLANEOUS RULES
Section
   
6-7-1   Unattended motor vehicle
   
6-7-2   Limitations on backing
   
6-7-3   Obstruction to driver’s view; overloading school bus
   
6-7-4   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
6-7-5   Coasting prohibited
   
6-7-6   Fire apparatus; fire hose
   
6-7-7   Glass, other debris on highway; throwing substances
   
6-7-8   Funeral, other processions
   
6-7-9   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
6-7-10   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicle
   
6-7-11   Improperly riding on vehicles
   
6-7-12   Driving through driveways, parking areas; circling
   
6-7-13   Transportation of an open container of alcoholic beverage
   
6-7-14   Prohibition against operating motor vehicles on city owned trails
§ 6-7-1 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall not permit it to
stand unattended without first stopping the engine, and effectively setting the
brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway. A violation of this section that does not
result in collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum
penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1101
§ 6-7-2 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   No vehicle shall be backed upon any street or highway, except for such
distance as may be necessary to permit the vehicle to enter the proper driving
lane from a parked position. Such backing shall be done only after the driver
of said vehicle has ascertained that such movement can be made without
endangering other traffic. A violation of this section that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200
plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1102
§ 6-7-3 OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER’S VIEW; OVERLOADING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   Obstructing view or control. No person shall drive a vehicle when his
view is obstructed. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   When the vehicle is so loaded, or when there are in the front seat
such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the
driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle;
      (2)   When his view is obstructed by snow, ice, frost or any other
substance or item that obscures the driver’s view through the windshield or
windows of the vehicle; and
      (3)   A violation of this subsection (A) that does not result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $100 plus costs. A violation of this subsection (A) that does result in
collision or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty
of $200 plus costs.
   (B)   Riding position. No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position
as to interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere
with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. A violation of this
subsection (B) that does not result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this
subsection (B) that does result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
   (C)   School bus. No school bus shall be operated on the streets or highways
when loaded with passengers in excess of the number from which such bus is
designed to carry. The number of passengers determined by the school board
which the bus is designed to carry shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
the bus. A violation of this subsection (C) that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this subsection (C) that does result in collision or
injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus
costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1104
§ 6-7-4 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic
for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers. A
violation of this section that does not result in collision or injury to either
person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation
of this section that does result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1105
§ 6-7-5 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Gears in neutral. The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon
a downgrade shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   Clutch disengaged. The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon
a downgrade shall not coast with the clutch disengaged.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury
to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1107
§ 6-7-6 FIRE APPARATUS; FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Following fire apparatus, other emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Prohibitions.
         (a)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business
shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm
closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
         (b)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business
shall not follow any emergency vehicle or shall not purposely drive to any
location on a highway where an emergency exists which would interfere with the
free movement of authorized emergency vehicles or any other traffic using the
highway at that location. For the purpose of this subsection (A), the
definition of EMERGENCY shall include traffic accidents, airplane accidents,
disasters, explosions, civil disturbances and (without limitation by the
foregoing) any other related circumstances which tend to cause traffic
congestion.
      (2)   The purpose of this subsection (A) is to eliminate sightseers and
other persons who do not have official business at the scene of an emergency,
and whose presence would tend to cause traffic congestion. A violation of this
subsection (A) that does not result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $100 plus costs. A violation of this
subsection (A) that does result in collision or injury to either person or
property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
   (B)   Crossing fire hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway,
to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command. A violation of this subsection (B) has a
maximum fine of $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1108 and 11-1109
§ 6-7-7 GLASS, OTHER DEBRIS ON HIGHWAY; THROWING SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Depositing on highway. No person shall throw or deposit upon any
highway any glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other
substances likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such highway.
   (B)   Removal of injurious material. Any person who drops, or permits to be
dropped or thrown, upon any highway any destructive or injurious material shall
immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Removing damaged vehicle. Any person removing a wrecked or damaged
vehicle from a highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance
dropped upon the highway from such vehicle.
   (D)   Throwing substances. No person shall throw any substance at a standing
vehicle or any occupant thereof, nor shall any person throw any substance at a
person on or adjacent to a highway.
   (E)   Penalty. A violation of this section that does not result in collision
or injury to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs. A violation of this section that does result in collision or injury
to either person or property shall have a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1110
§ 6-7-8 FUNERAL, OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Identification of funeral processions. The Chief of Police shall
designate a type of identification which shall be employed to identify the
vehicles in funeral processions.
   (B)   Drivers in funeral or other procession. The driver in a funeral or
other procession shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as
practical and follow the vehicle ahead as closely as is practical and safe.
   (C)   Driving through funeral or other procession; exception. No driver of a
vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other
authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated as required herein. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or police
officers.
   (D)   Penalty. A violation of this section has a maximum penalty of $200
plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-7-9 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive upon or park upon any sidewalk area,
except at a permanent or temporary driveway. A violation of this section holds
a maximum penalty of $200 plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-7-10 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLE.
   (A)   Boarding or alighting. No person shall board or alight from any
vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   Allowing person to board or alight. No driver of any vehicle shall
allow any person to board or alight from such vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section has a maximum penalty of $200
plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-7-11 IMPROPERLY RIDING ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   Riding on portions of vehicles not intended for passengers. No person
shall ride on any portion of a vehicle not designed or intended for the use of
passengers. This subsection (A) shall not apply to any employee engaged in the
necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space
intended for merchandise.
   (B)   Minors riding in beds of motor vehicles. No person shall drive a motor
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley in which any person under the
age of 18 is riding in or on the bed of the motor vehicle unless the bed is
fully enclosed or the bed is equipped with a seat and a seat belt properly
affixed to the bed and which is being used by said minor. This provision does
not apply to drivers who are part of a permitted parade.
   (C)   Riding in or on tailgates. No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon
a public highway, street or alley in which any person is riding in or on the
tailgate of said vehicle. This provision does not apply to public service and
public utility vehicles.
   (D)   Penalty. A violation of this section has a maximum fine of $25 plus
costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-7-12 DRIVING THROUGH DRIVEWAYS, PARKING AREAS; CIRCLING.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall drive a motor vehicle through any public
or private driveway, service area or parking area, except for the purpose of
obtaining service or merchandise on the premises.
   (B)   Exception. Nothing herein shall prohibit deliveries to the premises.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section has a maximum penalty of $100
plus costs.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 6-7-13 TRANSPORTATION OF AN OPEN CONTAINER OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
       ALCOHOL. Includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol or
spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It does
not include wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced as
denatured in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined by 37A O.S. herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or
not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as
a beverage by human beings.
      BUS. A vehicle as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-105 chartered for transportation
of persons for hire. It shall not mean a “school bus”, as defined by 47 O.S. §
1-160, transporting children.
      LIMOUSINE. A chauffeur driven motor vehicle, other than a bus or taxicab,
as defined by 47 O.S. § 1-174, designed and used for transportation of persons
for compensation.
   (B)   Transportation. No person shall knowingly transport in a moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any alcoholic beverage except in
the original container, which shall not have been opened and from which the
original cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container
be in the rear trunk or rear compartment which shall include the spare tire
compartment in the station wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment
which is not accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while
it is in motion.
   (C)   Exception. The provisions of this section do not apply to the
passenger area of buses or limousines; however, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of the bus or limousine to consume or have in the driver’s immediate
possession any alcoholic beverage.
   (D)   Fine. A violation of this section has a maximum penalty of $300 plus
costs for a first offense and a maximum penalty of $500 plus costs for a
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2018-23, passed 8-21-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 6-101
§ 6-7-14 PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLES ON CITY OWNED TRAILS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
        CITY OWNED TRAIL. Any trail owned, operated and maintained by the City
or its designated proxy.
      MOTOR OR MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Shall include any self-propelled vehicle or
device, powered by other than human power and shall specifically include,
without limitation, those vehicles and devices commonly known as “minibikes”,
“trail bikes”, “go-karts”, “golf carts” and “dirt bikes”, and motorized
bicycles and snowmobiles, whether commercially manufactured or homemade.
   (B)   Unlawful to operate a motor vehicle on any city owned trail. It is
unlawful for any person to drive, operate, park, stop, occupy, ride upon, be a
passenger in or alight from, on or into any “motor vehicle”, as defined in
subsection (A) above, upon any city owned trail, whether dedicated to the
public use or not.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   “Motorized wheelchairs”, “motorized scooters” or other “power
driven mobility devices” being used solely by those with mobility impairments
may be used on city owned trails. Such use and operation may not obstruct the
use of the city owned trails by others or be used in a manner that would pose a
risk of potential harm to others.
      (2)   Law enforcement are excepted from this section to the extent
necessary to perform job duties and enforce the health, safety and welfare of
the community.
      (3)   City employees or city contractors are excepted from this section
to the extent necessary to perform maintenance and upkeep on city owned trails.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate any provision of this section or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $100, unless the person has
previously been convicted of a violation under this section within the last
three years, then a violation shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $200;
or unless the person has previously been convicted of a violation under this
section twice or more within three years, then a violation shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2013-25, passed 4-2-2013)
CHAPTER 8: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
Section
   
6-8-1   Compliance with state law
   
6-8-2   Lighting requirements
   
6-8-3   Securing vehicle or load; exception
   
6-8-4   Use of compression braking or jake brakes prohibited
   
6-8-5   Window tinting
§ 6-8-1 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall drive or operate a vehicle which does not
have the equipment thereon required by the laws of the state or which has
equipment prohibited by the laws of the state. No person shall drive or operate
a vehicle if such vehicle’s size, weight or load violates state law.
   (B)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
up to $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2013-60, passed 12-17-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-101
§ 6-8-2 LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Headlights. Headlights shall be used between the hours of 30 minutes
after sunset and 30 minutes before sunrise, or at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the highway are not clearly discernible at a distance of 500 feet ahead.
   (B)   Parking lights and low beams. Parking lights shall not be used. If
lights are needed, only the low beam or dimmer headlights should be used.
   (C)   Motorcycles.
      (1)   Every motorcycle and every motor driven cycle, except motorcycles
or motor driven cycles used in official law enforcement capacities, shall
display lighted lamps and illuminating devices at all times.
      (2)   When headlights are required, only the low beam or dimmers shall be
used.
   (D)   Violation. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of up to $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2013-60, passed 12-17-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions 47 OS § 12-201
§ 6-8-3 SECURING VEHICLE OR LOAD; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Vehicle. The person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall not
permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, and
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade,
turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway.
   (B)   Load.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom, except
that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or
other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
      (2)   No person shall operate on any street any vehicle with any load
unless said load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
said covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders or other
loose material susceptible to blowing or otherwise escaping shall have such
load covered so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of said load from the
vehicle.
   (C)   Exception. This section shall not apply to trucks loaded with
livestock, poultry or agricultural products only, except baled agricultural
products; provided that any such truck shall be so constructed or loaded as to
prevent such livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom.
   (D)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
up to $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2013-60, passed 12-17-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 14-105
§ 6-8-4 USE OF COMPRESSION BRAKING OR JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any engine
braking system which utilizes engine exhaust or a decompression device to slow
the vehicle except in cases of emergency. Such braking systems are commonly
referred to as engine braking, jake brakes, jacobs vehicle systems, PacBrake or
TecBrake.
   (B)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
up to $750 plus costs.
(Ord. 2013-60, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 6-8-5 WINDOW TINTING.
   (A)   Window obstructions prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell, install or operate a motor vehicle with an object or material placed,
displayed, installed, affixed or applied upon the windshield or side or rear
windows, or so placed, displayed, installed, affixed or applied in or upon the
motor vehicle so as to obstruct or reduce the driver’s clear view through the
windshield or windows.
   (B)   Transparency materials prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to place, install, affix or apply any transparent material upon the windshield
or side or rear windows of any motor vehicle if such material alters the color
or reduces the light transmittance of such windshield or windows.
   (C)   Certification required. It shall be unlawful for any person who sells
or installs any product regulated by subsection (A) or (B) above to fail to
certify in a written statement, which shall be part of the contract for sale or
installation and shall be in boldface type, that:
      (1)   The product sold or installed is in compliance with the
reflectivity and transmittance requirements in this section; and
      (2)   The installation of the product to the driver’s or passenger’s side
windows may be illegal in some states.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
        GLASS COATING MATERIAL or SUN SCREENING DEVICES. Materials, films,
applications or devices which are in conjunction with approved vehicle glazing
materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun, but shall not
include materials, films, applications or devices with a mirrored or mirrorlike
finish.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The percentage of total light which is allowed to
pass through a window.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTION. The ratio of the amount of total light expressed in
percentages which is reflected outward by the glass coated material or sun
screening device to the amount of total light falling on the glass coating
material.
      MANUFACTURERS. A person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of sun
screening devices or a person who fabricates, laminates or tempers glazing
materials, incorporating the capacity to reflect or to reduce the transmittance
of light during the manufacturing process.
      WINDOW. The windshield, side or rear glass of a motor vehicle, including
any glazing material, glass coating or sunscreening device.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of subsections (A), (B) or (C) above shall
not apply to:
      (1)   Side or back windows that have a substance or material in
conjunction with glazing material that has a light transmission of at least
twenty-five percent (25%) and a luminous reflectance of at most twenty-five
percent (25%), or side or back windows on vehicles manufactured prior to 1996
year models that have a substance or material in conjunction with glazing
material that has a light transmission of at least ten percent (10%), and a
luminous reflectance of at most twenty-five percent (25%), if the vehicle is
equipped with outside mirrors on both the left and right hand sides of the
vehicle that are so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway
through each mirror for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the
vehicle;
      (2)   Front side window vents and windows that have a substance or
material not attached in conjunction with glazing material which is used by a
vehicle operator on a moving vehicle during daylight hours;
      (3)   Rearview mirrors;
      (4)   Adjustable nontransparent sun visors, which are not attached to the
glass;
      (5)   Signs, stickers or other materials which are displaced in a 49
square inch area in the lower corner on either side of the windshield;
      (6)   Direction, designation or termination signs on buses that do not
interfere with the driver’s clear view of approaching traffic.
      (7)   Rear window wiper motors, defrosters or defoggers;
      (8)   Rear truck lid handles or hinges;
      (9)   Transparent material which is installed, affixed or applied to the
topmost portion of the windshield if:
         (a)   It does not extend downward beyond the AS-1 line or more than
five inches from the top of the windshield, whichever is closer to the top of
the windshield; and
         (b)   The material is not red or amber in color.
      (10)   All windows to the rear of the driver’s seat in a vehicle licensed
as a bus or taxicab;
      (11)   Vehicles not subject to registration in the state;
      (12)   Implements of husbandry;
      (13)   Law enforcement vehicles; and
      (14)   Motor vehicles given an exemption by the Commissioner of Public
Safety pursuant to 49 O.S. § 12-422(H).
   (F)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
up to $500 plus costs.
(Ord. 2013-60, passed 12-17-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-422
CHAPTER 9: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
6-9-1   Pedestrians subject to traffic regulations
   
6-9-2   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalks
   
6-9-3   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
6-9-4   Drivers to exercise due care
   
6-9-5   Pedestrians use right half of crosswalks
   
6-9-6   Pedestrians on roadways
   
6-9-7   Soliciting rides or business
   
6-9-8   Duty of drivers of vehicles; White Cane Law
§ 6-9-1 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Traffic control devices. A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of
any official traffic control device specifically applicable to him, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Traffic and pedestrian control signals. Pedestrians shall be subject
to traffic and pedestrian control signals as provided in §§
6-3-6 and 6-3-7(A).
   (C)   Privileges and restrictions. At all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(1994 Code, § 20-341)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-501
§ 6-9-2 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Yield by driver.
      (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
      (2)   This subsection (A) shall not apply under the conditions stated in
§
6-9-3(B).
   (B)   Pedestrian suddenly leaving curb. No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a
curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which
is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Vehicle approaching stopped vehicle. Whenever any vehicle is stopped
at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit
a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 20-342)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-502
§ 6-9-3 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(1994 Code, § 20-343)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-503
§ 6-9-4 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon the roadway.
(1994 Code, § 20-344)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-504
§ 6-9-5 PEDESTRIANS USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(1994 Code, § 20-345)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-505
§ 6-9-6 PEDESTRIANS ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Use of sidewalks. Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Walking on left side. Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left
side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the
opposite direction and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
(1994 Code, § 20-346)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-506
§ 6-9-7 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
donation, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 20-347)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-507
§ 6-9-8 DUTY OF DRIVERS OF VEHICLES; WHITE CANE LAW.
   Any driver of a vehicle who knowingly approaches within 15 feet of a person
who is in the roadway or at an intersection and who is wholly or partially
blind and who is carrying a cane or walking stick white in color, or white
tipped with red, or who is using a dog guide wearing a specialized harness, or
who is wholly or partially deaf and is using a signal dog wearing an orange
identifying collar, or who is physically handicapped and is using a service
dog, shall immediately come to a full stop and take such precautions before
proceeding as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury to the person wholly
or partially blind, deaf or physically handicapped. For purposes of this
section, a DOG GUIDE means any dog that is specially trained to guide a blind
person.
(Ord. 2005-34, passed 11-1-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 7 O.S. § 12
CHAPTER 10: BICYCLES AND PLAY VEHICLES
Section
   
6-10-1   Interpretation, effect of regulations
   
6-10-2   Traffic laws applicable to bicycles; exceptions
   
6-10-3   Electric assisted bicycle
   
6-10-4   Reserved
   
6-10-5   Reserved
   
6-10-6   Manner of riding on bicycles
   
6-10-7   Riding on sidewalks
   
6-10-8   Skateboards, in-line skates, coasters and roller skates
   
6-10-9   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths; passing other vehicles
   
6-10-10   Speed restrictions
   
6-10-11   Reserved
   
6-10-12   Carrying packages
   
6-10-13   Parking
   
6-10-14   Equipment
§ 6-10-1 INTERPRETATION, EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance required. No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   (B)   Parental responsibility. The parent of any child and the guardian of
any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit the child or ward to violate
any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Cycles. These regulations are applicable to bicycles, tricycles, quad-
cycles or similar human powered devices, electric assisted bicycles and
motorized bicycles unless otherwise specifically indicated shall apply whenever
a bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to the exceptions herein.
   (D)   Violations that are performed on the above referenced cycles all carry
a fine of $5 plus costs.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004; Ord. 2022-20, passed 8-16-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1201
§ 6-10-2 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE TO BICYCLES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter and those provisions of laws
and ordinances which, by their nature, can have no application.
(1994 Code, § 20-362)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1202
§ 6-10-3 ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLE.
   (A)   Electric assisted bicycles are not subject to statutory provisions
relating to financial responsibility, vehicle insurance, drivers licenses,
vehicle registration or certificates of title.
   (B)   No person under 16 years of age may operate a Class 3 electric-
assisted bicycle but such a person may ride as a passenger on a such a bike if
it is designed to accommodate passengers.
   (C)   A person under the age of 18 riding an electric assisted bicycle must
wear a bicycle helmet.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004; Ord. 2021-14, passed 10-5-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-701
§ 6-10-4 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 6-10-5 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 6-10-6 MANNER OF RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Use of seat. No person propelling a bicycle shall ride other than
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   Carrying persons. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(1994 Code, § 20-364)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1203
§ 6-10-7 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk.
(1994 Code, § 20-365)
§ 6-10-8 SKATEBOARDS, IN-LINE SKATES, COASTERS AND ROLLER SKATES.
   (A)   Riding restricted in certain areas. No person shall ride a skateboard,
in-line skates or roller skates on private or public property where signs are
posted prohibiting such use.
   (B)   Outdoor skate and bicycle motocross parks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the outdoor skate and
bicycle motocross parks without a helmet designed for said use.
      (2)   No motor vehicles may be used at the outdoor skate and bicycle
motocross parks.
      (3)   The fine for a violation of this subsection (B) shall be $25.
   (C)   Use of coasters, roller skates on roadway. No person upon roller
skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device
shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk, and
when so crossing shall be granted all of the rights and subject to all of the
duties applicable to pedestrians. This subsection (C) shall not apply to any
street while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinance.
   (D)   Clinging to vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 6-10-9 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS; PASSING OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   Due care. Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride
as near to the right side of the roadway as practical, exercising due care in
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Passing other vehicles. No person operating a bicycle shall pass other
vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction.
   (C)   Riding two abreast. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (D)   Bicycle paths. Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the
roadway.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1205
§ 6-10-10 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(1994 Code, § 20-368)
§ 6-10-11 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 6-10-12 CARRYING PACKAGES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(1994 Code, § 20-370)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1206
§ 6-10-13 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(1994 Code, § 20-371)
§ 6-10-14 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Front lamps. Every bicycle, when in use at any time between one-half
hour before sunset and one-half hour after sunrise shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 1,000 feet to the front.
   (B)   Rear lamp. Every bicycle, when in use any time between one-half hour
before sunset to one-half hour after sunrise shall be equipped with a lamp on
the rear emitting a red light visible from a distance of at least 1,000 feet to
the rear.
   (C)   Reflector. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a red reflector which
shall be visible for 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Additional reflectors. A bicycle or its rider may have reflectors in
addition to those required above; provided such lights or reflectors shall
comply with the provisions and limitations of 47 O.S. Ch. 12, Art. II.
   (E)   Brake. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake or brakes which
will enable the operator to stop the bicycle within 25 feet from a speed of ten
mph on dry, level, clean pavement.
   (F)   Sirens. A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle, any siren.
(Ord. 2015-36, passed 11-3-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-702—12-704 and 12-707—12-709
CHAPTER 11: MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
6-11-1   Transporting passengers
   
6-11-2   Speed limits
   
6-11-3   Required equipment
   
6-11-4   Use of crash helmet
   
6-11-5   Restriction on motorized scooters
   
6-11-6   Traffic laws applicable to motorized scooters; exceptions
§ 6-11-1 TRANSPORTING PASSENGERS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 16 years shall drive a motorcycle, motor
driven cycle, motorized scooter, motorized bicycle or electric assisted bicycle
on any highway of this state while transporting any other person.
   (B)   The operator of a motorcycle, motor driven cycle, moped, goped,
motorized scooter, motorized bicycle or electric assisted bicycle who has
attained the age of 16 years or older may carry a passenger if the vehicle has
a wheel diameter of 12 inches or greater and is factory designed and equipped
with either a double seating device with double foot rests or a side car
attachment providing a separate seat space within such side car attachment for
each person riding therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within
the body of said sidecar.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1103
§ 6-11-2 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate any motorcycle at a speed greater than the speed
limit legally posted; provided, however, in no event nor at any time may an
operator under the age of 16 years operate a motorcycle on a highway that has a
minimum speed limit established and posted.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-805
§ 6-11-3 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles, motor driven
cycles, mopeds, gopeds and motorized scooters, except on actual trail rides
conducted outside of public roads and highways:
   (A)   Rearview mirrors. Two rearview mirrors, containing a reflection
surface of not less than three inches in diameter, mounted one on each side of
the vehicle and positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the
roadway to the rear of his vehicle;
   (B)   Windshield. A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to
protect the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of such windshield, the
operator shall wear goggles or other protective eyewear that meets American
National Standards Institute standard Z87.1 and provides positive retention of
a face shield of material and design to protect the operator from foreign
objects;
   (C)   Brakes. Brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and
hold such vehicles, including two separate means of applying the brakes. One
means shall be effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel and one means
shall be effective to apply the brakes to the rear wheel or wheels. Brake
systems shall comply with 49 C.F.R. § 571.121;
   (D)   Stop lamp. Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one stop
lamp mounted on the rear of the motorcycle displaying a red or amber light, or
color between, that is visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear in normal sunlight and is actuated on application of brakes;
   (E)   Speedometer. A properly operating speedometer capable of registering
at least the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle;
   (F)   Fender. A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type
provided by the manufacturer;
   (G)   Headlamp. At least one lighted headlamp, but not more than two lighted
headlamps, which shall comply with 47 O.S. §§ 12-203, 12-227, 12-228 and 12-
602, and is located at a height of not more than 54 inches nor less than 22
inches;
   (H)   Taillight. At least one taillight, mounted on the rear on the vertical
centerline of the motorcycle which shall emit a red light plainly visible from
a distance of 1,000 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a
combination of vehicles, only the taillamp on the rear most vehicle need
actually be seen from the distance specified. It should be located at a height
of not more than 60 inches nor less than 15 inches. Either a taillamp or a
separate lamp with a white light shall be so constructed and placed as to
illuminate the rear license plate and render it clearly legible from a distance
of 50 feet to the rear. Any taillamp, together with any separate lamp for
illuminating the rear license plate, shall be lighted whenever the headlamp or
driving lamp is lighted. The operation of a motorcycle upon which the license
plate is surrounded or framed, partially or in whole, by any additional lamp or
lamps or otherwise lighted by any additional lamp or lamps, shall be a
violation of this subsection (H);
   (I)   Reflectors. Every motorcycle shall be equipped with and display at
least one reflector mounted on the motorcycle at a height not less than 15
inches nor more than 60 inches and of such size and characteristics and mounted
so as to be visible at night from all distances within 600 feet to 100 feet
from the motorcycle when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights;
   (J)   Horn. A horn, which shall comply with 47 O.S. § 12-401;
   (K)   Turn signal lamps. Every motorcycle of year 2005 and later shall be
equipped with electric flashing turn signal lamps that show to the front and
rear of the motorcycle, shall be located on the same level and as widely spaced
laterally as practicable on the front of the motorcycle and when in use shall
display a white or amber light, or any shade in between, visible from a
distance of not less than 500 feet to the front in normal sunlight, located at
the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable on the rear of the
motorcycle and when in use shall display a white or amber light, or any shade
in between, visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the front in
normal sunlight, and shall indicate when actuated the intended direction of
turning by flashing the lights showing to the front and rear on the side toward
which the turn is made;
   (L)   Muffler. A muffler or other effective noise suppression system that
shall comply with the requirements of 47 O.S. § 12-402; and
   (M)   Handlebars. Handlebars on motorcycles shall not be higher than eye
level of the operator.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-602—12-606, 12-608 and 12-609
§ 6-11-4 USE OF CRASH HELMET.
   No person under 18 years of age shall operate or ride upon any motorcycle,
motor driven cycle or motorized scooter unless such person is wearing a crash
helmet of a type which complies with standards established by 49 C.F.R. §
571.218.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 12-609
§ 6-11-5 RESTRICTION ON MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   No person shall operate a motorized scooter on any roadway with a posted
speed limit of greater than 25 mph.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 6-11-6 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE TO MOTORIZED SCOOTERS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a motorized scooter upon a roadway shall be granted all
of the rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter and those provisions of laws
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
CHAPTER 12: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
6-12-1   Purpose
   
6-12-2   Authority to impound
   
6-12-3   Arrest and detention of driver
   
6-12-4   Impoundment of illegally parked vehicles
   
6-12-5   Recovered stolen vehicles
   
6-12-6   Vehicles whose owner is unascertainable
   
6-12-7   Place of impoundment
   
6-12-8   Duration of impoundment
   
6-12-9   Notification of owner
   
6-12-10   Payment of removal costs and storage
   
6-12-11   Right of redemption of vehicle
   
6-12-12   Release of vehicle to other than registered owner
   
6-12-13   Special liens
§ 6-12-1 PURPOSE.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisance arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of city streets and thoroughfares
from obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(1994 Code, § 20-96)
§ 6-12-2 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized, within the limits
set forth in this chapter, to impound vehicles under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order
of an authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures
required in this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 20-97)
§ 6-12-3 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leave, or will leave, a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, alleyway
or any public property, or on any private property designated for public use,
or any other private property without the property owner’s consent, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(1994 Code, § 20-101)
§ 6-12-4 IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Fire lane. Any vehicle found to be parked in any fire lane or other
access roadway as defined in the International Fire Code may be impounded.
   (B)   Disabled vehicles. A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be
impounded under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      (2)   If left unattended longer than 48 hours on the shoulder of any
highway; and/or
      (3)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   (C)   Bridge. An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway or within the structure of a grade separation may be impounded.
   (D)   Traffic hazard or obstruction. A vehicle left unattended upon any
street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked illegally as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic shall be
impounded.
   (E)   Road construction or improvement locations.
      (1)   When the City plans to construct or improve any street, alley or
right-of-way upon which a car or cars are legally parked, the City shall
install a sign to be conspicuously posted at two locations upon, at or near
such street, alley or right-of-way. Such notice shall state: “Street -
Construction - Improvement, All Vehicles Must Be Removed Immediately!” Such
notice shall be given at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of any
construction or improvement activities.
      (2)   Any vehicle which remains upon any street, alley or right-of-way at
the commencement of any such construction or improvement activities shall be
determined to be parked illegally and shall constitute a traffic hazard, and
shall be impounded.
   (F)   Derelict vehicles.
      (1)   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any street in the City for a period of 72 hours, the
Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle, and if the owner of the
vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the owner shall be notified
of the action by the Police Department.
      (2)   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any airport property belonging to the City for a period
of 48 hours, the Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle, and if
the owner of the vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the owner
shall be notified of the action by the Police Department.
      (3)   For the purposes of this chapter, a DERELICT VEHICLE shall be
defined as:
         (a)   Abandoned;
         (b)   Interfering with the normal flow of traffic;
         (c)   Interfering with the use of private property;
         (d)   Neglected; and/or
         (e)   Inoperable.
   (G)   Private property.
      (1)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of §
6-6-9 may be impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and
filed as provided in this subsection (G).
      (2)   If a violation of the provisions of §
6-6-9 occurs, the owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint
against the person parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s
property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then
the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle. The
complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining party is the
owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is parked or
standing.
      (3)   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of
§
6-6-9 have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage.
   (H)   Parked over water meters.
      (1)   Any vehicle parked in such a way as to obstruct ready access to a
city water meter shall be impounded after notice has been given.
      (2)   Notice shall be given as follows.
         (a)   Notice of the offense and one-hour advance notice of impoundment
and an opportunity to move the vehicle shall be given to the owner or person in
charge of the illegally parked vehicle if such person is present.
         (b)   If the vehicle owner or person in charge of the vehicle is not
present, notice of the offense and impoundment shall be left on the vehicle at
least 12 hours in advance of impoundment.
   (I)   Parked in/upon stormwater drainage facilities or easements.
      (1)   Any vehicle parked in, over or upon stormwater drainage facilities
or easements shall be impounded after notice has been given.
      (2)   Notice shall be given as follows.
         (a)   Notice of the offense and one hour advance notice of impoundment
and an opportunity to move the vehicle shall be given to the owner or person in
charge of the illegally parked vehicle if such person is present.
         (b)   If the vehicle owner or person in charge of the vehicle is not
present, notice of the offense and impoundment shall be left on the vehicle at
least 12 hours in advance of impoundment.
   (J)   Prohibited zone. Any unattended vehicle parked at the street curbing
of any zone where parking is prohibited and where official signs are in place
giving notice thereof in violation of the prohibition may be impounded.
   (K)   Blocking fire exits or hydrants. Any vehicle illegally parked in such
a manner that it blocks a fire escape ladder, device or exit or blocks ready
access to a fire hydrant shall be impounded.
   (L)   Intersection. Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street
intersection shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection, with
the person in charge of the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the
intersection and to the nearest available legal parking space at the street
curbing.
   (M)   Handicapped parking spaces. Any vehicle parked in a parking space
which is clearly marked for handicap parking, whether on public or private
property, which vehicle does not have a clearly visible state or city
authorized handicap sticker may be impounded and the owner and/or operator may
be cited for violations pursuant to §
6-6-7.
(Ord. 2015-20, passed 5-4-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see
Title 9, Chapter 10
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles constituting traffic obstruction authorized, see 47 O.S.
§ 11-1002(b)
§ 6-12-5 RECOVERED STOLEN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Notice to owner of place of retention. Whenever a stolen vehicle is
located by police and the registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable
time not exceeding one hour, or cannot be determined from the registration
papers or other identifying media in the vehicle or from records or information
available from reports of stolen cars, the vehicle may be removed to the
nearest authorized place for holding impounded vehicles and the registered
owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the place for holding
impounded vehicles as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   (B)   Removal by owner or impoundment by city. If the registered owner is
identified, located and notified of the recovery of the stolen vehicle, the
owner shall be given the right to make his own arrangement for the removal of
the vehicle within the period of one hour from the time he is actually notified
of its recovery, and if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal
within the time specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
(1994 Code, § 20-111)
§ 6-12-6 VEHICLES WHOSE OWNER IS UNASCERTAINABLE.
   Any vehicle may be impounded by the police if the owner is unascertainable
at the time and pursuant to other procedures set forth in this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 20-112)
§ 6-12-7 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the City
Council and to no other place.
(1994 Code, § 20-113)
§ 6-12-8 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Written order for release. Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle
impounded under the authority of this chapter shall be stored and held safely
until a written order for its release, signed by an authorized police officer,
has been issued.
   (B)   Payment of impoundment costs. The order of release shall be
conditioned upon the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   (C)   Fines and costs paid in full. No order of release of an impounded
vehicle shall be issued until all fines and costs due the City because of all
violations involving the vehicle have been paid.
(1994 Code, § 20-114)
§ 6-12-9 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER.
   The manager or authorized agent of the place holding impounded vehicles
where vehicle has been rightfully impounded shall promptly ascertain the name
and address of the owner of the vehicle and, if reasonably possible, notify him
of the vehicle location.
(1994 Code, § 20-115)
§ 6-12-10 PAYMENT OF REMOVAL COSTS AND STORAGE.
   The owner of a motor vehicle which is in violation of this chapter or the
owner of any vehicle which shall have been lawfully removed from any highway or
other public property may regain possession of the vehicle upon payment of the
reasonable cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 20-116)
§ 6-12-11 RIGHT OF REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE.
   Presentation of the order of release at the place of impoundment, together
with payment or tender of payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage
charges due, shall entitle the person presenting the release to obtain
possession of the impounded vehicle.
(1994 Code, § 20-117)
§ 6-12-12 RELEASE OF VEHICLE TO OTHER THAN REGISTERED OWNER.
   (A)   Authority of Police Chief. The Chief of Police, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, is hereby authorized to release, to one other than
the registered owner, vehicles which have been impounded by the Police
Department.
   (B)   Lien holder, proof required. A lien holder claiming an interest in an
impounded vehicle shall submit to the Chief of Police proof of compliance with
the following requirements by written instruments or other suitable documents:
      (1)   Proof of interest;
      (2)   An agreement to save and hold harmless the City, its officers and
employees; and
      (3)   Proof of financial responsibility showing the net worth of the
party seeking the vehicle to be in excess of $50,000, or a surety bond in an
amount no less than double the value of the vehicle sought to be released.
   (C)   Other party, proof required. Any other party claiming an interest in
an impounded vehicle shall submit to the Chief of Police proof of compliance
with the following requirements by written instruments or other suitable
documents:
      (1)   Proof of interest; and
      (2)   Order of replevin.
(1994 Code, § 20-118)
§ 6-12-13 SPECIAL LIENS.
   (A)   Lien for compensation. Every person lawfully in possession of an
impounded vehicle shall have a special lien thereon for the compensation due
him from the owner of such impounded vehicle for all expenses incurred.
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien. Said lien may be foreclosed by a sale of such
abandoned vehicle upon giving notice and in the manner following. The notice
shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the party bringing action and the name of the owner or
any person claiming any interest therein;
      (2)   A full description of the vehicle, giving all available information
as to the make, serial number, license tag with year and the state from which
the tag was issued;
      (3)   A full statement of all the facts;
      (4)   The amount of the claim, giving a full description of the work,
labor, storage or any other costs involved;
      (5)   The date, time and place of the sale; and
      (6)   The notice shall be posted in three public places in the county in
which the vehicle is to be sold at least ten days before the time specified
therein for such sale, and a copy of said notice shall be mailed to the
registered owner as recorded in the Office of the Oklahoma Tax Commission, the
Director of Finance and any other person claiming any interest in the motor
vehicle, at their last known mailing address, by registered mail on the same
date of posting said notice.
   (C)   Sale of vehicle; disposition of funds.
      (1)   Proceedings for such sale shall not be commenced until ten days
after said lien has accrued. After this ten-day period, but before sale, the
said registered owner of the vehicle shall have a right to contest the
impoundment in the Municipal Court.
      (2)   A return of such sale shall be made at the time of sale and shall
contain a statement as to proof of posting and mailing of the notice of sale of
abandoned vehicle.
      (3)   Any funds remaining after the payment of the lien and costs
incurred therein shall be remitted to the owner, if such owner is known, and if
such owner or the address of such owner is not known, to the Director of
Finance to be deposited in the General Fund of the City.
(1994 Code, § 20-119)
CHAPTER 13: LOW SPEED ELECTRICAL VEHICLES, GOLF CARTS, MINIBIKES,
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND MOBILITY DEVICES
Section
   
6-13-1   Low speed electrical vehicles limitations
   
6-13-2   Use of golf carts or go-carts prohibited
   
6-13-3   Minibike limitations
   
6-13-4   Use of all-terrain vehicles
   
6-13-5   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
6-13-6   Restriction on use of electric scooters
   
6-13-7   Rules of the road
   
6-13-8   Parking
   
6-13-9   Trail system and sidewalks
   
6-13-10   Exceptions
   
6-13-11   Traffic laws apply
   
6-13-12   Penalty
§ 6-13-1 LOW SPEED ELECTRICAL VEHICLES LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall operate any low speed electrical vehicle on any street or
highway with a posted speed greater than 35 mph. However, a low speed
electrical vehicle may cross a street or highway with a posted speed greater
than 35 mph.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 6-13-2 USE OF GOLF CARTS OR GO-CARTS PROHIBITED.
   Golf carts or go-carts shall not be operated on the streets and highways.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-1116
§ 6-13-3 MINIBIKE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Minibikes shall be prohibited from operating on the streets and
highways, except:
      (1)   Minibikes may be ridden in parades; and
      (2)   Minibikes operated for food vendor services may be operated on
streets with a speed limit of 30 mph or less if the minibike is registered in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 1151(E).
   (B)   All minibikes offered for sale shall bear the following notice to
customers: “This machine is not manufactured or sold for operation on the
public streets or highways. Since it is not provided with equipment required by
state law for street or highway use, all persons are cautioned that any
operation of this vehicle upon a public street or highway will be in violation
of the motor vehicle laws of this state and will subject violator to arrest.”
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1116
§ 6-13-4 USE OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   All-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on streets and highways except
under the following circumstances.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle may be driven across a street or highway while
the vehicle is traveling upon a regularly traveled trail and needs to continue
travel from one area of the trail to another. If the vehicle comes to a
complete stop, yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that constitutes
an immediate hazard and crosses the street or highway at an angle of
approximately 90 degrees to the direction of the street or highway. The
operator must have a valid driver’s license and it must be driven during
daylight hours. This exception shall not apply to divided highways or streets
with a posted speed limit exceeding 35 mph in the area of crossing.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle may be driven on a street or highway to cross a
railroad track. In that event, the all-terrain vehicle may travel for not more
than 300 feet on a public street or highway to cross the track. The operator
must have a valid driver’s license and it must be driven during daylight hours.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 6-13-5 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   Registration, license not required. “Electric personal assistive
mobility devices”, as defined in §
6-1-2, are not required to be registered pursuant to the Oklahoma Vehicle
License and Registration Act, see 47 O.S. §§ 1101 et seq., and operators are
not required to have a state driver license to operate the device.
   (B)   Where operated. Electric personal assistive mobility devices cannot be
operated on the state highways or turnpikes except they may be operated upon
the sidewalks, walking trails, bikeways and municipal streets of this state.
   (C)   Rules for use. A person operating an electric personal assistive
mobility device shall:
      (1)   Obey all speed limits;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and human-powered devices at
all times;
      (3)   Give an audible signal before overtaking and passing any
pedestrian; and
      (4)   Wear or equip the electric personal assistive mobility device with
reflectors and a headlight when operating at night.
   (D)   Penalty. The violation of this section shall result in a warning for
the first offense and thereafter the offense carries a maximum fine of $10.
Each act of noncompliance shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-19, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 6-13-6 RESTRICTION ON USE OF ELECTRIC SCOOTERS.
   No person shall operate an electric scooter on any roadway with a posted
speed limit of greater than 25 mph. Electric scooters must be equipped with
lights to be operated on roads.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-16-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-805
§ 6-13-7 RULES OF THE ROAD.
   (A)   Every person operating an electric scooter upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then
existing shall ride as close as is safe to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway except in the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking or passing a vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection, into a private
road or driveway;
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions and while exercising
due care, including, but not limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or
moving vehicles, pedestrians or animals, surface hazards; or
      (4)   Anytime it is unsafe to continue along the right hand curb or edge
of the roadway; and when riding in the right turn only lane.
   (B)   Any person riding an electric scooter upon a one-way street or highway
with two or more marked lanes of travel may ride as close is safe to the left
hand curb or edge of the street or highway.
   (C)    No person riding an electric scooter shall pass other vehicles
between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction.
   (D)   No person riding an electric scooter upon a roadway shall ride more
than two abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles or electric scooters. Persons riding two abreast
shall not impede the normal and reasonable flow of traffic, and, on a laned
roadway, shall ride in a single lane.
   (E)   An electric scooter may only carry one person on it.
   (F)   Any person riding an electric scooter on a roadway shall wear a safety
helmet.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-16-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-1203 and 11-1205
§ 6-13-8 PARKING.
   (A)   Electric scooters may be parked in bicycle racks, designated electric
scooter locations, parking spots for motorcycles or on private property for
which the rider has permission from the owner.
   (B)   Electric scooters shall not be left in the right-of-way for longer
than 24 hours, and, if left in the right-of-way, the location must not be in
the roadway or on a sidewalk.
   (C)   Rented electric scooters shall be picked up for maintenance, service,
charging and relocation within 36 hours of the completion of their use by the
rental company or its agents.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 6-13-9 TRAIL SYSTEM AND SIDEWALKS.
   Electric scooters may be used on the City’s trail system and on sidewalks
but scooters must give the right-of-way to pedestrians and persons in
wheelchairs.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 6-13-10 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   An electric scooter is not required to be registered by the state.
   (B)   The operator of an electric scooter is not required to possess a
driver’s license or to comply with the vehicle insurance or financial
responsibility laws of the state.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-16-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 1-133.3
§ 6-13-11 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding an electric scooter upon a roadway shall be granted the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a driver of a
vehicle, unless excepted by this chapter or by state law.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-16-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1202
§ 6-13-12 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter section is punishable by a maximum fine of $100
plus costs.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-16-2021)
TITLE 7: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Chapter
      
1.    STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
2.    PARKS AND RECREATION
      
3.    FISHING, LAKE USE AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT
      
4.    AVIATION; AIRPORT
      
5.    RAILROADS
      
6.    RESERVED
      
7.    TREES
      
8.    AIRPORT ZONING
      
9.    COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS
      
10.    LIBRARY BOARD
      
11.    ART IN PUBLIC PLACES
      
12.    RESERVED
      
13.    DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. HOLIDAY COMMISSION
      
14.    ENID PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ADVISORY BOARD
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
7-1-1   Obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
7-1-2   Tractors and machines with lugs; planking required
   
7-1-3   Snow and debris removal from sidewalks
   
7-1-4   Closing public way or easement, procedure
   
7-1-5   Installation of utility lines in public streets
   
7-1-6   Sidewalk partnership program
Article A: Construction and Repair
   
7-1A-1   Definitions
   
7-1A-2   Street construction permit
   
7-1A-3   Street concrete work; completion time
   
7-1A-4   Construction standards
   
7-1A-5   Pavement design and permitted uses
Article B: Limited Access Facilities
   
7-1B-1   Definitions
   
7-1B-2   Improvement costs
   
7-1B-3   Arterial highways
   
7-1B-4   Auxiliary service highways
   
7-1B-5   Limited access facilities, streets designated
   
7-1B-6   Comprehensive Street Plan
   
7-1B-7   Use of limited access facilities, regulations
   
7-1B-8   Zoning ordinances not affected
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 7-1-1 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Obstructions prohibited; exemption.
      (1)   No person shall in any manner whatsoever obstruct any public
street, alley, parkway, sidewalk, curbing or parking, or direct, place, operate
or maintain any business or any equipment, materials or supplies pertaining
thereto in or upon the same.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to outdoor cafés permitted under
Title 3, Chapter 5.
   (B)   Signboards, structures. No person shall in any manner whatsoever erect
or maintain any sign or signboard, building, structure, billboard or any
equipment pertaining to any business in or upon any of the public streets,
alleys, boulevards, parkways, sidewalks or curbing; provided, however, nothing
herein shall affect the erection or use of overhead signs in compliance with
the sign ordinances of the City.
   (C)   Nuisance declared. All apparatus, equipment, materials or supplies
pertaining to any business; and all curb gasoline filling stations and pumps;
and all signs, billboards and other structures erected or maintained in
violation of this section are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall
be removed as provided herein.
   (D)   Notice to remove obstruction.
      (1)   The Code Official shall provide written notice to the owner,
operator, lessee or person maintaining an obstruction upon any of the public
streets, sidewalks, parking or curbs as herein prohibited. The notice shall
require such person to remove the obstruction within three days of the receipt
of said notice.
      (2)   Upon the failure of such person to remove the obstruction, the City
shall have the authority to abate said nuisance and remove the same at the
expense of the person maintaining it.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit any
obstruction or to prevent prosecution for violation of subsection (A) or (B)
above prior to the giving of such notice.
(1994 Code, § 30-1) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 7-1-2 TRACTORS AND MACHINES WITH LUGS; PLANKING REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any tractor, apparatus, machine or other equipment
having lugs, grousers, corrugations or other equipment which could damage
streets upon or across any paved street without first placing sufficient
planking or other material on the pavement to protect the same against damage
or to fail to remove such protective material from the pavement after its use.
(1994 Code, § 30-2) (Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Permits for oversize vehicles, see 47 O.S. § 12-405
§ 7-1-3 SNOW AND DEBRIS REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS.
   Any person in possession of, or the occupant of, any building or lot shall,
within 12 hours after a snow has fallen, remove all snow from the sidewalks
along the front and sides of said premises or building. Such person shall also
keep the sidewalk clean and free of rubbish, trash and debris.
(1994 Code, § 30-3) (Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 7-1-4 CLOSING PUBLIC WAY OR EASEMENT, PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice of date and hearing. Whenever it is desired to close or to
consider the closing to the public use of any public way or easement, the City
Council shall, by motion, fix a date for closing or considering the closing of
such way or easement and which date shall afford sufficient time to give 30
days’ notice. Thereupon, the City Clerk shall, more than 30 days prior to such
date, mail a notice of such date and hearing on the proposed closing of a
public way or easement, to the holders of a franchise or others designated by
the City Council to have a special right or privilege granted by ordinance or
legislative enactment to use the public way or easement. The Clerk shall
certify to the City Council that such notice has been mailed.
   (B)   Fees and costs.
      (1)   Any private person who requests the City to close a public way or
easement to public use shall provide a list containing the names and mailing
addresses of all owners of property lying within 300 feet of the exterior
boundary of the subject property, as certified by a licensed and bonded
abstracting company or title insurance company.
      (2)   The applicant shall also pay to the Director of Finance at the time
of making the request the fee as provided in §
2-6A-7(A).
   (C)   Refund of fee. Should the applicant withdraw his application in
writing, prior to the setting of the hearing by the City Council, the fee
provided in §
2-6A-7(A) shall be refunded to said applicant.
(1994 Code, § 30-4) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 3-
18-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Vacating streets and alleys, see 11 O.S. § 42-101 et seq.
§ 7-1-5 INSTALLATION OF UTILITY LINES IN PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   Approval required; application; fee.
      (1)   No person shall install a gas line, oil line, water line, electric
line or any other conduit or conductor either above or below the streets,
roads, highways and alleys within the corporate limits of the City without the
prior approval of the City Council. Installation should be as approved by the
City Engineer and shall meet all the requirements of the City, including, but
not limited to, this code.
      (2)   Application for such construction shall be submitted to the City
Engineer with an application fee in the amount established in §
2-6A-7(B), which shall be paid to the Finance Director.
   (B)   Exemptions. Public utilities licensed or franchised by the City, and
sewer and water service line construction, are exempt from subsection (A)
above.
(1994 Code, § 30-5) (Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 7-1-6 SIDEWALK PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.
   (A)   Residential sidewalk repair partnership program. Eligible residential
property owners that desire to install or improve the sidewalks located in the
right-of-way may apply to the City for partnership funds to be used to make
repairs to the sidewalks.
      (1)   To qualify, the property must be located within the city limits and
have or have been developed with sidewalks or the properties on either side of
the subject property have or have been developed with sidewalks. The sidewalk
must be in need of repair or reconstruction due to its condition or because it
does not comply with current sidewalk standards.
      (2)   To be accepted into the program, the property owner must be able to
provide fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the repair or reconstruction or be
willing to have fifty percent (50%) of the cost be assessed against the
property to be paid back as provided for by state law as a sidewalk assessment
or as a lien.
      (3)   Acceptance is contingent on the availability of matching funds and
priority will be given to applications on the basis of the condition of the
sidewalk, the need and the scope of the project. Work that will result in a
general improvement to pedestrian access rather than provide only a localized
benefit will be given priority. Landowners are encouraged to consider making an
areawide application where appropriate.
      (4)   If a property is accepted into the program, an agreement will be
drawn up between the property owner or owners and the City. If the
circumstances warrant, the City may provide more than a fifty percent (50%)
match if the scope of the project involves more than repair or is coupled with
additional municipal objectives.
   (B)   Commercial sidewalk partnership program. Eligible commercial property
owners that desire to install or improve sidewalks in the right-of-way may
apply to the City for partnership funds to be used to install or improve the
sidewalks.
      (1)   To qualify, the property must be the location of an existing
business within city limits which was not required, when developed, to include
sidewalks.
      (2)   To be accepted into the program, the property owner must be able to
provide fifty percent (50%) of the cost for the installation or be willing to
have fifty percent (50%) of the cost be assessed against the property to be
paid back as provided for by state law as a sidewalk assessment or as a lien.
      (3)   Acceptance is contingent on the availability of matching funds and
priority will be given to applications on the basis of what type of street the
property abuts, the need and the scope of the project. Landowners are
encouraged to consider making an areawide application where appropriate.
   (4)   If a property is accepted into the program, an agreement will be drawn
up between the property owner or owners and the City. If the circumstances
warrant, the City may provide more than a fifty percent (50%) match if the
scope of the project is coupled with additional municipal objectives.
   (C)   Ineligibility for program. A property for which a sidewalk development
fee has previously been paid in lieu of construction of a sidewalk shall be
ineligible for the sidewalk partnership program.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) (Ord. 2016-03, passed 2-2-2016)
ARTICLE A: CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 7-1A-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person who does street concrete work, other than the owner.
   OWNER. The owner or person in possession or in control of the property in
front of or adjacent to which street concrete work is being done or
contemplated.
   STREET CONCRETE WORK. The construction, alteration, repair or removal of any
pavement, curbing, gutter or driveway within any public right-of-way or
easement.
(1994 Code, § 30-31) (Prior Code, § 7-1A-1)
§ 7-1A-2 STREET CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required; exceptions.
      (1)   Required. No person shall lay, place, construct, alter, repair,
remove or maintain any concrete, asphalt, hard surfacing, pipe, wire, poles,
lines or other material of any kind or do any ditching, excavating or filling
in any street, alley or public easement in the City without first having
obtained a permit from the City Engineer. This provision applies to all
persons, including, but not limited to, franchisees and license holders.
      (2)   Exceptions. No permit is required:
         (a)   When work is done by or for the City; or
         (b)   For the fencing in of any utility easement or the growing of
shrubs thereon.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for such permit shall be
accompanied by detailed plans and specifications of the work to be done.
   (C)   Permit fee; exceptions.
      (1)   If the plans and specifications comply with the requirements of
this article, the Engineering Department shall issue the permit upon payment of
a fee as specified in §
2-6A-7(C) to the Director of Finance.
      (2)   No fee shall be required for:
         (a)   Persons authorized to do such work by the state or by a
franchise granted by the City; or
         (b)   Work other than street concrete work.
(1994 Code, § 30-32) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 7-1A-2)
Cross-reference:
   Bond requirement for street improvements, see §
2-1-4
§ 7-1A-3 STREET CONCRETE WORK; COMPLETION TIME.
   No person shall fail to complete, or cause to be completed, street concrete
work within a reasonable time, according to the plans and specifications
submitted and according to the permit issued therefor and the requirements of
this article.
(1994 Code, § 30-33)
§ 7-1A-4 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All work for which a permit is required by the provisions of this article
shall be accomplished as directed by the City Engineer.
(1994 Code, § 30-34)
§ 7-1A-5 PAVEMENT DESIGN AND PERMITTED USES.
   All pavement constructed in the City shall be in accordance with the
standard construction specifications of the City and comply with the following;
except, however, that pavement on state and federal designated highways and
street improvements funded by state and federal programs shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the Oklahoma Department of Transportation
requirements.
   (A)   Type I. Type I pavement shall be designated for collector streets in
residential districts and local streets in commercial districts. Type I
pavement shall be a six-inch slab of portland cement concrete on one-half-inch
sand cushion and six-inch compacted subgrade of suitable material or six-inch
compacted stabilized base as directed by the City Engineer. The stabilized base
or subgrade shall extend ten inches beyond the back side of the curb section.
The curb design shall be integral six-inch by eight-inch “barrier” type.
   (B)   Type II. Type II pavement shall be designated for local streets in
residential districts and shall be a five-inch portland cement concrete slab
with all other requirements of type I the same, except the back of curb height
shall be 11 inches.
   (C)   Type III. Type III pavement shall be designated for the same service
classification as type I. Type III pavement section shall be two inches of type
C asphaltic concrete surface course and five inches of fine aggregate
bituminous base (FABB) on a six-inch compacted subgrade or six-inch compacted
stabilized base as directed by the City Engineer. The compacted subgrade or
base and one inch of FABB shall extend ten inches beyond the back side of the
curb. The combined curb and gutter section shall be 30 inches wide with a six-
inch molded curb section as specified for type I; back of curb height shall be
12 inches.
   (D)   Type IV. Type IV pavement shall be designated for the same service
classifications as type II. Type IV pavement section shall be two inches of
type C asphaltic concrete surface course and four inches of FABB. All other
requirements of type IV shall be the same as for type II, except the back of
curb height shall be 11 inches.
   (E)   Type V.
      (1)   Type V pavement is classified as temporary pavement and shall be
six-inch soil asphalt stabilized base of suitable aggregate and soil obtained
from approved sources or a combination of existing road bed material and
additional soil from approved sources. This stabilized base can be mixed in
place or produced off site and then manipulated and stabilized in place. The
surface may be a single bituminous chip and seal surface treatment or a slurry
seal treatment. Four inches of fine aggregate bituminous base may be
substituted for the soil asphalt base or four inches of full depth asphaltic
concrete pavement on a compacted subgrade or stabilized base may be substituted
for the soil asphalt base and surface treatment with approval of the City
Engineer.
      (2)   The intent for application of type V pavement is on street where
the City determines temporary pavement is necessary for the health, safety and
welfare of the community and sufficient funds are not available for
construction of permanent pavement. Type V pavement shall not be approved for
street improvements paid for by assessment of property owners.
   (F)   Type VI. Type VI pavement section shall be a minimum of two inches of
compacted aggregate base on a compacted subgrade of suitable material and a
slurry seal surface treatment. The compacted subgrade shall extend ten inches
beyond the back side of the curb section. The requirements for combined curb
and gutter shall be the same as for type IV pavement, except a five-inch roll
curb section may be substituted for a barrier curb with approval of the City
and back of curb height shall be 11 inches. Type VI pavement shall not be
approved for public right-of-way dedicated after the date of adoption of this
article.
   (G)   Type VII. Type VII pavement shall be designated for collector streets
in commercial districts and streets other than arterials in industrial
districts. Type VII pavement shall be a minimum of seven inches of portland
cement concrete slab. The thickness shall be increased if subgrade conditions
and traffic load necessitate such increase as determined by the City Engineer.
All other requirements for type VII pavement shall be the same as for type I,
except the back of curb height shall be six inches plus the thickness of the
slab.
   (H)   Type VIII.
      (1)   Type VIII pavement shall be designated for the same service
classification as type VII. Type VIII pavement section shall be two inches of
type C asphaltic concrete surface course and a minimum of seven inches of FABB.
The thickness of FABB shall be increased if subgrade conditions and traffic
load necessitates such increase as determined by the City Engineer. All other
requirements for type VIII pavement shall be the same as for type III, except a
minimum of two inches of FABB shall extend ten inches beyond the back of curb.
      (2)   An equivalent thickness of asphaltic concrete may be substituted
for FABB as determined by Oklahoma Department of Transportation design
procedures, except a minimum of two inches of FABB shall always be specified.
   (I)   Pavement design for arterial street. Pavement sections including curb
and combined curb and gutter shall be designed based on subgrade conditions and
projected traffic loads for a service life of a minimum of 30 years using
Oklahoma Department of Transportation established procedures for such design.
(1994 Code, § 30-35) (Prior Code, § 7-1A-5)
ARTICLE B: LIMITED ACCESS FACILITIES
§ 7-1B-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTERIAL HIGHWAY. A street or highway especially designed for through
traffic, entrance into which at intersections may be limited by requiring all
entering vehicles to be brought to a complete stop, and the City Council having
jurisdiction thereover may otherwise protect the right-of-way of vehicles
thereon.
   AUXILIARY SERVICE HIGHWAY. A street or highway especially designed to
furnish access to a limited access highway or to an arterial highway.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A road constructed adjacent and parallel to, but separated
from, the highway and connected thereto at least at each end for service to
abutting property and for control of access.
   LIMITED ACCESS FACILITY. Shall include limited access highways, expressways,
arterial highways, frontage roads and the auxiliary service highway.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. An arterial street or highway especially designed
for through traffic, and over, from or to which neither owners nor occupants of
abutting lands nor other persons have any right or easement of access, light,
air or view.
   PARKWAY. Any street, highway or limited access facility from which trucks,
buses and other commercial vehicles are, or may be, excluded.
   PUBLIC ROAD. A road constructed to connect other public roads or streets,
but not connected to the highway.
(1994 Code, § 30-16) (Prior Code, § 7-1B-1)
§ 7-1B-2 IMPROVEMENT COSTS.
   A system of limited access facilities consisting of the streets and parts of
streets hereinafter described is hereby established, and in recognition of the
general use of the streets and avenues therein included and of the wear and
tear and destruction of the grading, drainage, pavement and improvements
thereof by general traffic, the straightening, widening, draining, paving,
repaving, resurfacing, curbing, guttering and maintaining of the limited access
facilities are hereby declared to be improvements of a general nature and to
the extent that the costs thereof exceed the benefits to the abutting property,
such costs are declared to be costs of improvements of a general nature for the
benefit of the entire city.
(1994 Code, § 30-17) (Prior Code, § 7-1B-2)
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to declare limited access facility, see 69 O.S. § 1331
§ 7-1B-3 ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS.
   The following streets or parts thereof are hereby declared to be arterial
highways:
Street Portion (if applicable)
Street                Portion (if applicable)
4th Street            From Chestnut Avenue to Willow Avenue
10th Street           From Chestnut Avenue to Market Avenue
16th Street           From Chestnut Avenue to Market Avenue
30th Street
Broadway Avenue       From University Avenue to the east to Cleveland Street on
                      the west
Cleveland Street
Grand Avenue          From Willow Avenue on the north to State Avenue on the
                      south
Independence Avenue   From Willow Avenue on the north to Wabash Avenue on the
                      south
Lahoma Road
Maine Avenue          From 25th Street to the east to Hayes Street on the west
Market Avenue
North Enid Boulevard  From Willow Avenue north to city limits
Oakwood Road          From Lahoma Road to Willow Avenue
Randolph Avenue       From 30th Street on the east to Oakwood Road on the west
Rock Island Boulevard
Van Buren Street
Willow Avenue
 
(1994 Code, § 30-18) (Prior Code, § 7-1B-3)
Statutory reference:
   Control of access to highways, see 69 O.S. § 1301 et seq.
§ 7-1B-4 AUXILIARY SERVICE HIGHWAYS.
   The following streets or parts thereof are hereby declared to be auxiliary
service highways:
 
Street               Portion
4th Street           From Market Avenue on the south to Maine Avenue on the
                     north
Elm Avenue           From Van Buren Street on the west to Grand Avenue on the
                     east
Pine Avenue          From Washington Street on the west to Independence Avenue
                     on the east
South Enid Boulevard From Frantz Avenue on the south to Market Avenue on the
                     north
University Avenue    From Randolph Avenue on the north to Maine Avenue on the
                     south
 
(1994 Code, § 30-19) (Prior Code, § 7-1B-4)
§ 7-1B-5 LIMITED ACCESS FACILITIES, STREETS DESIGNATED.
   All streets designated in this article as auxiliary service highways and
arterial highways are hereby declared to be limited access facilities and
public utilities, in accordance with the provisions of 69 O.S. §§ 1301 through
1331, and §§ 1401 through 1403, inclusive.
(1994 Code, § 30-20) (Prior Code, § 7-1B-5)
§ 7-1B-6 COMPREHENSIVE STREET PLAN.
   The streets designated in this article as auxiliary service highways and
arterial highways are designated as a necessary part of a comprehensive plan
for a system of streets or highways for the adequate movement of traffic in,
out, through or around the City.
(1994 Code, § 30-21) (Prior Code, § 7-1B-6)
§ 7-1B-7 USE OF LIMITED ACCESS FACILITIES, REGULATIONS.
   Use of the limited access facilities shall be regulated and controlled by
the traffic ordinances of the City.
(1994 Code, § 30-22) (Prior Code, § 7-1B-7)
§ 7-1B-8 ZONING ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED.
   Nothing in this article shall be deemed or construed to affect any of the
zoning ordinances of the City.
(1994 Code, § 30-23) (Prior Code, § 7-1B-8)
CHAPTER 2: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
7-2-1   Hours
   
7-2-2   Use of amplifying equipment; permit
   
7-2-3   Glass containers prohibited
Article A: Park and Recreation Board
   
7-2A-1   Board created; members; terms
   
7-2A-2   Powers and duties
   
7-2A-3   Meetings
   
7-2A-4   Dedication for parks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 7-2-1 HOURS.
   (A)   Hours parks open to public. City parks shall be open daily to the
public on the following schedule:
      (1)   Between 6:00 a.m. and 10:30 p.m. of any one day from April 1 to
November 1; and
      (2)   From one-half hour before sunrise to one-half hour after sunset of
any one day from November 1 to April 1.
   (B)   Occupancy prohibited during closing hours. It shall be unlawful for
any person, other than city personnel conducting city business therein, to
occupy or be present in city parks during any hours the parks are not open to
the public.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Baseball fields, softball fields, football fields and soccer fields
within the city parks, including the spectator and parking areas of said
fields, are excluded from the above closing hours while said fields are being
used for team playing of baseball, softball, football or soccer. This exception
is extended only to teams organized by sports organizations that have filed
with the City an approved schedule of proposed use of the fields.
      (2)   Tennis courts within city parks are excluded from the above closing
hours while the courts are being used for playing tennis.
(1994 Code, § 24-1) (Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 7-2-2 USE OF AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT; PERMIT.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, the term AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT
shall mean any machine or device for the amplification of the human voice,
music or any other sound. It shall not include standard automobile radios when
used and heard only by the occupants of the vehicle in which the radio is
installed, or warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles, or horns or
other warning devices used only for traffic safety purposes.
   (B)    Permit required. No person, other than law enforcement officers or
authorized governmental agencies, shall install, use or operate any amplifying
equipment in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any sound truck for
the purposes of giving instructions, directions, talks, addresses, lectures or
transmitting music to any person or assemblage of persons in any public park of
the City without having first obtained a permit therefor from the Director of
Finance.
   (C)   Application for permit; fee.
      (1)   The application for such a permit shall contain the name and
address of the applicant, kind and type of equipment proposed to be used; the
manner in which it will be operated and the purpose or purposes for the
operation of the same; and such other information as shall be required by the
City Clerk. A permit shall be issued to the applicant upon the payment of the
permit fee.
      (2)   The permit fee for the use or operation of any amplifying equipment
in the parks of the City shall be as provided in §
2-6A-5.
   (D)   Disturbing others. No person shall use any amplifying equipment in
such a manner as to disturb other persons in the park or on adjacent property.
(1994 Code, § 24-2) (Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 7-2-3 GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be permitted to carry into or possess any glass container
within any municipal park.
(1994 Code, § 24-3) (Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
ARTICLE A: PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 7-2A-1 BOARD CREATED; MEMBERS; TERMS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a board to be known as the Park and Recreation
Board. The Park and Recreation Board shall consist of a total of eight members,
seven members to be appointed by the City Council, and one member of the City
Council to be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The members of the Park and Recreation Board shall hold office for a
term of three years or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Members of the Park and Recreation Board may serve two terms in
succession.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-1) (Ord. 2013-23, passed 3-19-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see § D.1.17 of the City Charter
§ 7-2A-2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Park and Recreation Board shall be as follows:
   (A)   To advise and assist the City in the planning of all parks owned and
operated by the City;
   (B)   To advise with and recommend plans for the development of parks;
   (C)   To advise with the City in its overall coordination of the park
programs; to inform and instruct the public on matters involving the city
parks; and
   (D)   To promote the use of parks both by individual initiative and
recreational programs, as appropriate.
(1994 Code, § 24-18) (Prior Code, § 7-2A-2)
§ 7-2A-3 MEETINGS.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall meet at such times as is agreed by the
members thereof, and shall have the authority to make its own rules and
regulations for the purpose of conducting its business and meeting.
(1994 Code, § 24-19)
§ 7-2A-4 DEDICATION FOR PARKS.
   The purpose of this section is to provide a means to assist in funding the
acquisition and maintenance of city parks as a significant quality of life for
the residents of the City and to integrate parks when appropriate into major
city construction projects.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. All city buildings, gateways, parks, plazas,
medians, roads, excluding road overlay projects, and other public areas except
service facilities not normally visited by the public.
      CONSTRUCTION or ALTERATION. Construction, rehabilitation, renovation,
remodeling or improvement as it relates to public works projects.
      CONSTRUCTION COSTS. Any costs related to public work projects, such as
the estimated construction costs of projects proposed for the capital
improvement plan.
      MAJOR CITY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. A city construction project or city
alteration project where the City’s construction cost is between $250,000 and
$10,000,000.
      PARK. Any city owned greenbelt area or public park.
   (B)   Dedication.
      (1)   At the time of budget allocation for a major city construction
project, the City Council shall consider the dedication of up to one-half of
one percent (½%) of the construction cost as a set aside for the inclusion of
park features for the project.
      (2)   The purpose of this dedication is to provide park features adjacent
to or in close proximity to the city facility that is subject of the project.
If it would be inappropriate to locate park features at that location, the one-
half of one percent (½%) may be used for the maintenance and enhancement of
city parks generally.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-4) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 4-18-2023)
CHAPTER 3: FISHING, LAKE USE AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
7-3-1   Definitions
   
7-3-2   Reserved
   
7-3-3   State license; hours
   
7-3-4   Reserved
   
7-3-5   Fishing requirements and restrictions
   
7-3-6   Boats and flotation devices
   
7-3-7   Swimming, scuba diving, ice skating
   
7-3-8   Reserved
   
7-3-9   City waterworks
   
7-3-10   Domestic waterfowl
§ 7-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY OF WATER. Ponds, lakes, creeks and springs.
   CITY OPERATED RESERVATION. Any naturally occurring or manmade body of water
owned or maintained by the City, and any park or interest in land owned or
maintained by the City which contains or is appurtenant to a natural or manmade
body of water.
   FISHERMAN’S FLOAT. Any device designed to keep a fisherman afloat in an
upright position in the water, ordinarily consisting of a protectively covered
circular tube, of inflated rubber or styrofoam, with a saddle type seat, in
which the fisherman is seated while wearing watertight rubber waders.
   LENGTH LIMIT. The total length of a fish measured from the tip of the snout
to the end of the tail, with fish flat on a ruler, mouth closed and tail lobes
pressed together.
(1994 Code, § 24-100) (Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 7-3-2 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 7-3-3 STATE LICENSE; HOURS.
   (A)   State license. No person shall fish upon any city operated
reservation, unless such person has a current state fishing license as provided
by state statutes or proof of exemption therefrom.
   (B)   Hours. No person shall fish in any city operated reservation, except
during posted park hours or at such other times as further restricted by any
ordinance, rule or regulation.
(1994 Code, § 24-101) (Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 7-3-4 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 7-3-5 FISHING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The following restrictions shall apply on city owned and/or operated
reservations.
   (A)   Except as provided in the Oklahoma Wildlife Conservation Code, see 29
O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq., no person shall fish, pursue, harass, catch, kill, take
in any manner, use, have in possession, sell or transport all or any portion of
fish without having first procured a state fishing license.
   (B)   Fishing is limited to not more than three rods and reels per person,
with no more than three hooks per line (treble hooks are considered one hook).
No other fishing methods are allowed.
   (C)   No snagging, seining, netting, cast netting or noodling (hand fishing)
allowed.
   (D)   All black bass caught must be released (returned to the water)
immediately after being taken; no harvest is allowed.
   (E)   Channel catfish and blue catfish have a combined daily bag limit of
six; no size limits apply.
   (F)   Crappie have a 37 fish bag limit.
   (G)   Flathead catfish have a ten fish bag limit; minimum length limit of 20
inches.
   (H)   Trout have a bag limit of two per person per day; no size limit
applies.
   (I)   Harvest of all other species must comply with state regulations as
outlined in OAC Title 800:10-1.
   (J)   No person shall deposit unused bait of any character, including, but
not limited to, minnows, small fish, worms, flesh of animals or any other
deleterious matter which might decay, in the waters of any city owned and/or
operated reservation or upon the lands adjacent thereto.
   (K)   No game fish from any city owned and/or operated reservations shall be
used as bait. For the purposes of this section, game fish shall be as defined
in the Oklahoma Wildlife Conservation Code, see 29 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) (Ord. 2011-03, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 7-3-6 BOATS AND FLOTATION DEVICES.
   (A)   Operation of boats. Nonmotorized boats only may be operated on the
city operated reservations at Crosslin Park, Government Springs Park and
Meadowlake Park.
      (1)   Age restriction. No person under the age of 12 may operate any
craft on city operated reservations. They may be a passenger of someone aged 16
or older with parent/guardian permission.
      (2)   Boat size. Boats must be less than 14 feet in length.
      (3)   Safety requirements.
         (a)   Personal flotation device or PFD (life jacket);
         (b)   All boats must carry one wearable USCG approved PFD for each
person on board;
         (c)   All passengers 12 years and younger on boats must wear a United
States Coast Guard approved PFD whenever the vessel is underway; and
         (d)   Life jackets must:
            1.   Be United States Coast Guard (USCG) approved;
            2.   Be in good and serviceable condition; and
            3.   Must be of suitable size for the intended person, and approved
for the activity.
      (4)   Boating hours. Boating hours are from sunrise to sundown. At no
point shall anyone operate any craft on city operated reservations outside of
daylight hours.
   (B)   Fishing from floats. It shall be unlawful for any person to fish from
a fisherman’s float in any city operated reservation.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   A violation of any subsection of this section is subject to a fine
of up to $100 plus costs for each violation.
      (2)   Any person convicted of a violation shall be trespassed from
boating on city operated reservations.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) (Ord. 2013-42, passed 11-19-2013)
§ 7-3-7 SWIMMING, SCUBA DIVING, ICE SKATING.
   (A)   Swimming and bathing. No person shall swim or bathe in any of the
waters of any city operated reservation.
   (B)   Wading. No person shall wade in any city operated reservation unless
it is incidental to a lawful boat launching or boat retrieval.
   (C)   Scuba diving. No person shall engage in any skin or scuba diving in
any city operated reservation, except with the express permission of the City
or during an emergency situation or salvage operation.
   (D)   Ice skating, sledding. No person shall ice skate or sled on or over
any of the waters of any city operated reservation.
(1994 Code, § 24-106) (Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 7-3-8 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 7-3-9 CITY WATERWORKS.
   Persons shall be permitted to operate a boat at the city operated
reservation located at the city service center, but only for the purpose of
testing boats and motors. The operation of such boats at the city operated
reservation located at the city service center shall be governed by the laws of
the state.
(1994 Code, § 24-108) (Prior Code, § 7-3-9)
§ 7-3-10 DOMESTIC WATERFOWL.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful to release domestic waterfowl on any
city property.
   (B)   Violation. A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine,
or fee in lieu of fine, in the amount of $100 plus court costs and fees.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 4: AVIATION; AIRPORT
Section
   
7-4-1   Aviation Advisory Board
   
7-4-2   Landing fees
   
7-4-3   Woodring hangar rental charges
   
7-4-4   Woodring ramp fees
§ 7-4-1 AVIATION ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created a board to be known and designated as
the City’s Aviation Advisory Board.
   (B)   Appointment; terms; compensation.
      (1)   This Board shall be composed of seven residents to be appointed by
the City Manager and approved by the City Council.
      (2)   The term of each member of this Board shall be three years, with
their terms expiring in March of the applicable year, and any vacancy shall be
filled in the same manner as the original appointment for the remainder of the
term.
      (3)   Members of the Board shall serve without pay.
      (4)   No member shall serve more than two terms in succession. However,
partial terms shall not be considered in determining the term limit.
   (C)   Officers and meetings.
      (1)   The Aviation Advisory Board shall each year elect a Chairman and a
Vice Chairman from among its members.
      (2)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as it may determine or upon the
call of the Chairman.
      (4)   It may adopt any necessary rules and regulations for conducting of
business.
   (D)   Functions.
      (1)   This Board shall serve as an advisory body of the Enid Woodring
Regional Airport.
      (2)   The Board shall conduct studies for the betterment of aviation
generally and shall report, advise and make such recommendations to the City
Manager and the City Council as it may determine wise from time to time.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 2-21-2008)
§ 7-4-2 LANDING FEES.
   There is hereby levied a fee as provided in §
2-6C-1(A), per scheduled landing at the airport. The charge shall be paid
monthly within 20 days after being billed by the City, and if not paid within
20 days, a penalty fee as provided in §
2-6C-1(A) shall be added.
§ 7-4-3 WOODRING HANGAR RENTAL CHARGES.
   (A)   Fees and charges. There shall be levied and charged the fees as
provided in §
2-6C-1(B) for ground rental for fixed base operations, ground rental for
hangars and hangar space fees at the airport.
   (B)   Monthly payments. All ground and hangar rentals shall be paid monthly
on or before the first of each month.
§ 7-4-4 WOODRING RAMP FEES.
   There is hereby levied a ramp fee, as provided in §
2-6C-1(C), for every aircraft over 5,000 pounds empty of weight that lands at
the airport and uses Woodring amenities but does not purchase at least 70
gallons of fuel from the airport. The charge shall be paid prior to the
aircraft’s departure, and if not paid prior to departure, a penalty fee as
provided in §
2-6C-1(C) shall be added.
CHAPTER 5: RAILROADS
Section
   
7-5-1   Railroad crossings
   
7-5-2   Paving and street improvements
§ 7-5-1 RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Warning bells at crossing. No person controlling, managing or
operating any railroad or line of railroad passing through or into the City
shall cause or permit its train engines or cars to cross any street without
giving notice of its approach by continually ringing the bell for a distance of
not less than 200 feet from the street crossing until the engine shall have
passed over the street.
   (B)   Blocking railroad crossings.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any conductor to permit any railroad
train, car or engine to remain stationary or standing for longer than the space
of 15 minutes on any street crossed by a railroad track, or to obstruct in
anywise any street crossing for a longer time than 15 minutes.
      (2)   Subsection (B)(1) above shall not apply in those instances where a
road, street or public way is blocked as a result of a derailment, wreck or
mechanical failure which renders the train, car or engine totally incapable of
operation.
(1994 Code, §§ 28-2 and 28-3) (Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate railroad crossings, see 11 O.S. § 22-119
§ 7-5-2 PAVING AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Duties of railways.
      (1)   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks
running in the general direction of the street, either on or adjacent thereto,
the railway company shall improve the space between its tracks, and two feet on
either side thereof, in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to
be improved, or with such other material as the City may require.
      (2)   Where any railway company occupies an alley with its track or
tracks, the company shall be required to improve, gutter, drain, grade or pave,
chat or gravel such alley in the manner that may be required by the ordinances
of the City. Where any railway company crosses any street that is being or has
been paved, the City Council may require the railway company to pave so much of
the street as may be occupied by its track or tracks and two feet on each side,
and when more than one track crosses the street within a distance of 100 feet,
measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railway company shall grade,
gutter, drain, curb, pave, chat or gravel, or improve between its tracks in the
same manner as the City may be improving or has improved the other portion of
the street.
   (B)   Noncompliance by railway; improvements by city; lien.
      (1)   If the owners of the railway shall fail or refuse to comply with
any order of the City to make such improvements by paving, chatting, graveling,
macadamizing or building sidewalks as the City directs, or to repair such
paving, graveling, macadamizing or building sidewalks, such work may be done by
the City. The cost and expense of such work done by the City may be charged
against the railway company and may be collected in the district court in the
county in which the improvements have been made, by action at law, in the name
of the City against the railway company. In any such action at law, it shall be
sufficient to declare generally for work or labor done, or material furnished
on the particular street, avenue, alley or highway so improved.
      (2)   In addition to the remedy provided in this subsection (B) for
collection of costs and expenses, the City or anyone authorized by it to do the
work, shall be entitled to a lien upon the property of the railway company.
Such lien shall exist for the full amount of the cost and expense against the
property of the railway company adjacent or contiguous to the improvement or
improvements so made. The lien may be enforced against the property of the
railway company by action in the district court in the county in which the
improvements have been made. In any action to enforce the lien, it shall be
sufficient to declare generally that the lien exists for the amount of the cost
and expense of the work and labor done or material furnished on the particular
improvement.
(1994 Code, §§ 28-4 and 28-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, 11 O.S. §§ 36-116 and 36-118
CHAPTER 6: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see
Title 1, Chapter 15
Editor’s note:
   This chapter has been repealed by Ord. 2013-35, passed 8-6-2013.
CHAPTER 7: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
7-7-1   Definitions
   
7-7-2   Removal of dead or diseased trees; trimming trees
   
7-7-3   Public tree care; city authority
   
7-7-4   Planting, distance from curb and sidewalk
   
7-7-5   Sight distance at intersections; obstructing hydrants
Article A: Tree Board and Community Forestry Plan
   
7-7A-1   Purpose
   
7-7A-2   Tree Board Established
   
7-7A-3   Community Forestry Plan
   
7-7A-4   Annual Work Plan and implementation
   
7-7A-5   Tree species
   
7-7A-6   Scope of duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 7-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORIST. Any person who trims, prunes or cuts trees for hire or otherwise
serves as a specialist in the care and maintenance of individual trees.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property within the curb line of the streets as
defined more specifically in 11 O.S. § 36-106.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property, including parks, streets or highways,
that is owned by the City or held by it in trust for the benefit of the public.
   PUBLIC TREES. All trees, shrubs, bushes and other woody vegetation for which
any portion of the trunk is located on public property.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-1) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 7-7-2 REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DISEASED TREES; TRIMMING TREES.
   (A)   Trimming or removal.
      (1)   Property owners shall trim trees so as not to obstruct the passage
of pedestrians on sidewalks (no limbs below eight feet), nor vehicles traveling
on streets (no limbs below 14 feet) and alleys (no limbs below 12 feet).
      (2)   The City shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees or the trimming of live trees on private property within the
City, when such trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor
insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within
the City.
   (B)   Notice; abatement. The City Code Office will notify in writing the
owners of trees specified in subsection (A) above. The trimming or removal
shall be done by said owners at their own expense within 30 days after the date
of service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such
provisions, the City shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge
the cost of the work to said owners.
   (C)   Violation. The violations of this section shall be punishable by a
fine of up to $100 plus costs, unless the person charged has been previously
convicted once under this section or any of the following sections of this
code: §§
4-3-2, 4-4-2, 4-5-8, 4-6-8, 8-4-7 and 9-9-2 in the last five years, then a
violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus
costs.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-2) (Ord. 2018-25, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 7-7-3 PUBLIC TREE CARE; CITY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares or public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public safety or
to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   The City may remove, cause or order to be removed any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other
public improvements or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other
pest.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-3) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 7-7-4 PLANTING, DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   Street trees may not be planted closer than four feet from any street curb
without approval from the City Engineer, nor shall any trees be planted closer
than eight feet from the street curb of major arterials without approval of the
City Engineer. For the purpose of this section, the EDGE OF THE PAVED PORTION
OF A STREET shall be defined as the street curb.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-4) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 7-7-5 SIGHT DISTANCE AT INTERSECTIONS; OBSTRUCTING HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Sight distance. No street tree shall be allowed to create a “sight
distance restriction”, as defined in the City’s traffic control policies, of
uncontrolled intersections within the City.
   (B)   Obstructing hydrants. All fireplugs within the City shall be free from
any and all obstructions which render them inaccessible to fire protection
equipment and personnel.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-5) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
11-13-5 (B)
ARTICLE A: TREE BOARD AND COMMUNITY FORESTRY PLAN
§ 7-7A-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this article to promote and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare by creating a tree board and providing for
the development of a community forestry plan to address the planting,
maintenance and removal of public trees and shrubs within the City in order to
promote, maintain and improve the urban forest resource of the City.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this article for the City to assume
responsibility for trees planted in the right-of-way by adjacent property
owners.
(Prior Code, § 7-7A-1) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 7-7A-2 TREE BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created and established a tree board for the
City. It will consist of five members. The members shall include:
         (a)   A City Manager designee; and
         (b)   Four at large residents appointed by the City Council.
      (2)   All members will serve without compensation.
   (B)   The at large members shall serve three-year terms. Members may serve
two terms in succession.
   (C)   At any meeting of the Tree Board, a quorum shall consist of half of
the total members.
   (D)   Meetings shall be held at least quarterly and as deemed necessary by
the Tree Board.
   (E)   The Board shall elect a Chairman from among its members, and the term
of Chairman shall be one year with eligibility for reelection for no more than
three consecutive terms.
(Prior Code, § 7-7A-2) (Ord. 2007-13, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 7-7A-3 COMMUNITY FORESTRY PLAN.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update periodically a written plan for the care,
preservation, trimming, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of public
trees and shrubs. Such a plan shall incorporate an inventory of the existing
trees on major rights-of-way, parks and other public property. Upon approval
and adoption of the recommended plan by the City Commission, it shall
constitute the official Community Forestry Plan.
(Prior Code, § 7-7A-3) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 7-7A-4 ANNUAL WORK PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The duties of the Tree Board shall be to report and recommend to the
City Commission an Annual Work Plan to implement the Community Forestry Plan.
The Annual Work Plan shall outline activities planned for the coming year,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Annually review and update a tree plan for the community by the end
of the first quarter;
      (2)   Coordinate tree related activities;
      (3)   Conduct an Arbor Day ceremony;
      (4)   Provide tree information to the community;
      (5)   Maintain a suitable and an unsuitable tree list for the community;
      (6)   Maintain a list of licensed arborists;
      (7)   Recognize groups and individuals completing tree projects;
      (8)   Coordinate publicity concerning trees and tree programs;
      (9)   Plan fundraisers and coordinate donations of trees or money to
purchase trees;
      (10)   Develop rules and regulations for considerations by the City
Commission pertaining to a tree program; and
      (11)   Perform other tree related duties.
   (B)   The work plan shall also include what is to be done, who is to do it
and how the proposed work will be funded. Upon approval of the annual work plan
by the City Commission, the Tree Board will have the responsibility of carrying
out the annual work plan.
(Prior Code, § 7-7A-4) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 7-7A-5 TREE SPECIES.
   The Tree Board shall develop and maintain a list of suitable trees for
planting along streets in three size classes: small, medium and large. A list
of trees not suitable for planting shall also be created. No species other than
those included on the list of suitable trees may be planted as public trees
without prior approval of the Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-7A-5) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 7-7A-6 SCOPE OF DUTIES.
   This article is applicable to trees located within street rights-of-way,
utility easements, drainage easements, public parks and on other public
property within the City except property owned by schools or any branch of
county, state or federal government.
(Prior Code, § 7-7A-6) (Ord. 2003-24, passed 12-16-2003)
CHAPTER 8: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
   
7-8-1   Short title
   
7-8-2   Definitions
   
7-8-3   Enforcement and administration
   
7-8-4   Board of Adjustment
   
7-8-5   Airport zones
   
7-8-6   Airport zone height limitations
   
7-8-7   Use restriction
   
7-8-8   Nonconforming uses
   
7-8-9   Permit and variance requirements
   
7-8-10   Appeals
   
7-8-11   Judicial review
   
7-8-12   Penalties
   
7-8-13   Nonaviation use of airport hangars
§ 7-8-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Enid Woodring Regional
Airport Zoning Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-1) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. Enid Woodring Regional Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. One thousand one hundred sixty seven feet above mean sea
level.
   APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, and extending outward and upward from the end of the primary
surface at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set
forth in §
7-8-6 . In plan, the perimeter of the APPROACH SURFACE coincides with the
perimeter of the approach zone.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones are as
set forth in §
7-8-5 .
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Zoning Board of Adjustment presently existing as
appointed by the City Council and appointed by the Joint Airport Zoning Board,
as provided in 3 O.S. § 110.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for a horizontal distance of
4,000 feet.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zones.
   JOINT AIRPORT ZONING BOARD. The Metropolitan Area Planning Commission will
serve as the Joint Airport Zoning Board pursuant to 3 O.S. § 105(2).
   LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds’ maximum
gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or
use of land, which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in §
7-8-6 .
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or government entity; including a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (AS) or a precision approach
radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is
planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other
planning document.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE is set
forth in §
7-8-5 . The elevation of any point on the PRIMARY SURFACE is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take off of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at 90 degree angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven
feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision approach surfaces,
which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a
distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
surface and at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for, and intended to be used
by, propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds’ maximum gross weight and less.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-2) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-3 ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Enforcement officials; process applications.
      (1)   The Code Administration Department of the City or its successor
shall enforce and administer these regulations.
      (2)   Applications for permits and variances shall be made to such
department upon a form published for that purpose. The Chairman of the Joint
Airport Zoning Board and the Code Official of the City shall collaborate to
create the application form or forms.
   (B)   Separate from Board of Adjustment. The Code Administration Department
shall hear and decide issuance or not of all permits, but it shall not have nor
exercise any of the powers delegated to the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-3) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-4 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Powers. A Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the following
powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Joint Airport Zoning Board or the administering
agency in the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   Continuance of existing board. The existing Zoning Board of Adjustment
of the City, duly appointed by the City Council, is designated and appointed to
exercise the powers set out above according to its procedures and otherwise act
as the Board of Adjustment for this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-4) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-5 AIRPORT ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provision of this chapter, there are created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces and conical
surfaces as they apply to Enid-Woodring Regional Airport. Such zones are shown
on the airport airspace drawing of Enid-Woodring Regional Airport consisting of
two sheets, prepared by Barnard Dunkelberg and Company, Inc., dated October,
1992, which is attached to Ord. 2002-05, on file in the Office of the City
Clerk and made a part hereof by reference. An area located in more than one of
the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more
restrictive height limitation.
   (B)   The various zones are established and defined as follows:
      (1)   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone. The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet
wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at
a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Runway Larger Than Utility With Visibility Minimum Greater Than
Three-Fourths Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is
either 500 feet or 1,000 feet wide, depending on the type of approach zone on
the opposite end of the runway. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to
a width of 3,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary
surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (3)   Runway Larger Than Utility With Visual Approach Zone. The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
1,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (4)   Transition zones. Transition zones are hereby established adjacent
to each instrument and noninstrument runway and approach zone as indicated on
the zoning maps.
      (5)   Horizontal zones. Horizontal zones are hereby established by
swinging arcs of 5,000 feet radii for all noninstrument runways and 10,000 feet
for all instrument runways from the center of each end of the primary surface
of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional
zones.
      (6)   Conical Zone for instrument and noninstrument runway. The conical
zone for instrument and noninstrument runway is hereby established as the area
that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward
therefrom a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not
include the instrument and noninstrument approach zones and transition zones
and horizontal zones.
(2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 7-8-5) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-6 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created
by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height herein
established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are established
for each of the zones in question as follows.
   (A)   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone. Slopes 50 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each
foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
   (B)   Runway Larger Than Utility With Visibility Minimum Greater Than Three-
Fourths Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes 34 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of, and at the same elevation as, the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
   (C)   Runway Larger Than Utility With Visual Approach Zone. Slopes 20 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of, and at the same elevation
as, the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
   (D)   Transition Zone. Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of, and at the same elevation as, the primary surface,
and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation. In addition
to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of, and at the same
elevation as, the approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the
conical surface. Further, where the precision instrument runway approach zone
projects through and beyond the conical zone, there are established height
limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides
of, and at the same elevation as, the approach surface, and extending a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the edge of the instrument approach zone
measured at right angles to the extended runway centerline.
   (E)   Horizontal Zone. Established at 150 feet above the established airport
elevation.
   (F)   Conical Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at
the periphery of the horizontal and at 150 feet above the airport elevation and
extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
   (G)   Excepted height limitation. Nothing in this order shall be construed
as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of
any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-6) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-7 USE RESTRICTION.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communications between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots
to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes
of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-7) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-8 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive.
      (1)   The regulations prescribed in this chapter shall not be construed
to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure
or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this
chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter, and
is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Joint Airport Zoning
Board to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport
the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the City.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-8) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-9 PERMIT AND VARIANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Future uses.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided in subsections (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b)
and (A)(1)(c) below, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established and no tree shall be
planted in any zone created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied
for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for
which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in
accordance with subsection (D) below.
         (a)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         (b)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
         (c)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zones, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground,
except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition zones.
      (2)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter, except as set forth in §
7-8-6(G).
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendments thereto, or than it is
when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Joint Airport
Zoning Board determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated
or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance. The application for a variance from such regulations
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard
to air navigation, will do substantial justice and will be in accordance with
the spirit of this chapter.
      (2)   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of
this chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the Joint Airport Zoning Board for advice as
to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the Joint Airport Zoning Board
does not respond to the application within 30 days after receipt, the Board of
Adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny said application.
   (E)   Obstructions; marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require
the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate and
maintain, at the owner’s expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary.
If deemed proper by the Board of Adjustment, this condition may be modified to
require the owner to permit the City, at its own expense, to install, operate
and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-9) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-10 APPEALS.
   (A)   Right to appeal. Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by
any decision of the administering agency or the Joint Airport Zoning Board made
in the administration of this chapter may appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Filing notice of appeal. All appeals hereunder must be taken within a
reasonable time as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment and by
filing with the administering agency and the Joint Airport Zoning Board a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Joint Airport Zoning Board
or the administering agency shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings; exception. An appeal shall stay all proceedings
in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the administering agency or
the Joint Airport Zoning Board certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the
notice of appeal has been filed with it, that, by reason of the facts stated in
the certificate, a stay would, in the opinion of the administering agency or
the Joint Airport Zoning Board, cause imminent peril to life or property. In
such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the Board of
Adjustment on notice to the administering agency and the Joint Airport Zoning
Board, and on due cause shown.
   (D)   Action in timely manner. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   Board decision. The Board of Adjustment may, in conforming with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under
the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-10) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-11 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, may appeal to the District Court as provided in state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-11) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-12 PENALTIES.
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a Class A offense; and each day a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 7-8-12) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-2002)
§ 7-8-13 NONAVIATION USE OF AIRPORT HANGARS.
   (A)   Designated hangar series. T-hangars in the 46 series shall be set
aside for nonaviation storage use. Only T-hangars in this series shall be used
for nonaviation storage.
   (B)   Rental rates. Rental rates of T-hangars in the 46 series shall be as
set forth in §
2-6C-1.
   (C)   Appropriate use. Property stored on the premises must be appropriate
for airport activities and if personal property stored is found to be
hazardous, threatening, annoying, dangerous to others or otherwise
inappropriate, the lessor shall have the right to require the removal of such
property. Property shall not be used for any unlawful purpose or for any
purpose that may constitute a nuisance. Items prohibited from the premises
include, but are not limited to, the following: animals (alive or dead,
including taxidermied); feed, grain, food, plants and other attractants;
firearms, weapons and ammunition; flammable, combustible, toxic, corrosive and
otherwise hazardous items, chemicals or liquids; explosives to include
fireworks; tires, medical supplies and pressurized materials including oxygen
tanks.
   (D)   Violation. A violation of this section will result in a criminal
penalty of $104 a day in addition to costs and fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-13) (Ord. 2013-40, passed 10-1-2013)
CHAPTER 9: COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS
Section
Article H: CATV Permitting
   
7-9H-1   Definitions
   
7-9H-2   Grant of permit
   
7-9H-3   Build-out requirements
   
7-9H-4   Terms and acceptance
   
7-9H-5   Favored nation clause
   
7-9H-6   Change of law
   
7-9H-7   Renewal of permit and notice
   
7-9H-8   Standards of service
   
7-9H-9   Permit fee
   
7-9H-10   Rates and charges
   
7-9H-11   Sale and transfer of permit
   
7-9H-12   Compliance and monitoring
   
7-9H-13   Insurance, indemnification, bonds and surety
   
7-9H-14   Public, government and education access
   
7-9H-15   Emergency alert
   
7-9H-16   Preemption
Article I: Cebridge (Suddenlink/Optimum) CATV Permitting
   
7-9I-1   Definitions
   
7-9I-2   Grant of permit
   
7-9I-3   Build-out requirements
   
7-9I-4   Term and acceptance
   
7-9I-5   Favored nation clause
   
7-9I-6   Change of law
   
7-9I-7   Renewal of permit and notice
   
7-9I-8   Standards of service
   
7-9I-9   Permit fee
   
7-9I-10   Rates and charges
   
7-9I-11   Sale and transfer of permit
   
7-9I-12   Compliance and monitoring
   
7-9I-13   Insurance, indemnification, bonds and surety
   
7-9I-14   Public, government and education access
   
7-9I-15   Emergency alert
   
7-9I-16   Preemption
Editor’s note:
   Sections 7-9-1 through 7-9-18 and Articles A—G of this chapter have been
repealed by Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023.
ARTICLE H: CATV PERMITTING
§ 7-9H-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   AFFILIATE. An entity which owns or controls, is owned or controlled by or is
under common ownership or control with the cable operator.
   BASIC CABLE. The tier of cable service regularly provided to all subscribers
that includes the retransmission of local broadcast television signals.
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming
or other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection or use of such video programming or other
programming service.
   CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception and control equipment or other
equipment that is designed to provide cable service or other service to
subscribers.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or successor governmental entity
thereto.
   PERMIT. The initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the City
whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license,
resolution, contract, certificate or otherwise, which authorizes construction
and operation of the cable system for the purpose of offering cable service or
other service to subscribers.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust,
corporation or governmental entity.
   PUBLIC WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other public right-of-way,
including, but not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated utility
strips or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary or
permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the
City in the service area which shall entitle the City and the cable operator to
the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating, repairing and
maintaining the cable system. PUBLIC WAY also means any easement now or
hereafter held by the City within the service area for the purpose of public
travel, or for utility or public service use dedicated for compatible uses, and
shall include other easements or rights-of-way as shall within their proper use
and meaning entitle the City and the cable operator to the use thereof for the
purposes of installing or transmitting the cable operator’s cable service or
other service over poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults,
manholes, pedestals, amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other related
property or equipment as may be necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
   SERVICE AREA. The present municipal boundaries of the City and all areas
annexed into the City in the future.
   SUBSCRIBER. A user of the cable system who lawfully receives cable service
with the cable operator’s express permission.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-1) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-2 GRANT OF PERMIT.
   The City hereby grants to the cable operator a nonexclusive permit which
authorizes the cable operator to construct and operate a cable system and offer
cable service and other service in, along, among, upon, across, above, over,
under or in any manner connected with public ways within the service area and
for that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct,
maintain or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across or along any public way
and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, such poles, wires, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system. Nothing in this permit shall be
construed to prohibit the cable operator from offering any service over its
cable system that is not prohibited by applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-2) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-3 BUILD-OUT REQUIREMENTS.
   The cable operator shall build out the cable system over a reasonable period
of time, and provided that the City timely issues permits and other owners and
users of critical infrastructure (such as utility poles) do not cause delay,
not less than fifty percent (50%) build-out in two years and ninety percent
(90%) build-out in three years to every residence (provided that there is a
request for cable service from the cable operator in such area and excluding
any home subscribing to any satellite service) within the service area where
there is a minimum density of at least 30 residences per linear strand mile of
cable as measured from the cable operator’s closest commercially reasonable
tie-in point that is actively delivering cable service as of the date of such
request for service. If such residence is located within 125 feet of the cable
operator’s feeder cable, the cable service will be provided at the cable
operator’s published rate for standard installations. Cable service offered to
subscribers pursuant to this article shall be conditioned upon the cable
operator having legal access to any such subscriber’s dwelling unit or other
units wherein such cable service is provided. Nothing herein shall be construed
to limit the cable operator’s ability to offer or provide bulk rate discounts
or promotions.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-3) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-4 TERM AND ACCEPTANCE.
   The permit granted pursuant to this article shall be for a term of ten years
from the passed and adopted date of the permit unless otherwise lawfully
terminated in accordance with the terms of this article. The cable operator
shall accept the permit granted pursuant hereto by accepting and executing said
permit acceptance and filing same with the City Clerk within 60 days after the
granting of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-4) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-5 FAVORED NATION CLAUSE.
   (A)   In the event the City enters into or has entered into a binding permit
of any kind with any person other than the cable operator to enter into the
public ways for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable system or
providing cable service or video service to any part of the service area, the
material provisions thereof shall be reasonably comparable to those contained
herein, in order that one operator not be granted an unfair competitive
advantage over another, and to provide all parties equal protection under the
law.
   (B)   If another provider of cable services, video services or other
television services utilizing any system or technology requiring use of the
public way in the service area, is lawfully authorized by any governmental
entity or otherwise exempt in the future from obtaining a permit as provided
for in this article in order to provide such services, the City agrees that,
upon a written request from the cable operator, as a matter of law, the cable
operator’s permit will be modified within 60 days of the granting of such
authorization or exemption for the purpose of establishing the same terms and
conditions on a competitively neutral basis. Except as specifically provided in
this subsection (B), neither the City nor the cable operator shall be permitted
to take any unilateral action that materially changes the explicit mutual
promises and covenants contained in this permit, and any changes, modifications
or amendments to this permit must be made in writing, signed by the City and
the cable operator.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-5) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-6 CHANGE OF LAW.
   In the event the federal, state or local law, rules or regulations are
amended, modified or created that have the effect of modifying the terms and
conditions of this permit during the term or any extension thereof, the cable
operator has the sole option to terminate this permit upon 90 days’ notice to
the City. Nothing in this permit shall impair the right of the cable operator
to terminate this permit and, at the cable operator’s option, negotiate a
renewal or replacement franchise, license, consent, certificate or other
authorization with any appropriate government entity (such as the state). To
the extent that the cable operator lawfully obtains an authorization to operate
a network and serve customers under applicable laws in lieu of this permit, the
cable operator shall have the right to terminate this permit upon 90 days prior
written notice to the City.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-6) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-7 RENEWAL OF PERMIT AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Renewal. Prior to the end of the permit term, the City and the cable
operator agree to enter into good faith negotiations regarding the renewal,
modification and/or extension of this permit.
   (B)   Notice. Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every
notice or response to be served upon the City or the cable operator shall be in
writing and shall be delivered by a properly sealed and correctly addressed
envelope by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, at a post office or
branch thereof regularly maintained by the U.S. Postal Service. If questioned,
the party sending a notice shall have the burden to prove receipt or rejection.
Rejected notices shall be deemed delivered. The parties may designate such
other address or addresses from time to time by giving notice to the other in
the manner provided for in this section. The notice and contact information for
the City and the cable operator shall be set forth in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-7) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-8 STANDARDS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Conditions of street occupancy. All transmission and distribution
structures, poles, other lines and equipment installed or erected by the cable
operator pursuant to the terms hereof shall be located so as to cause a minimum
of interference with the proper use of public ways and with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that adjoins any of
such public ways. The cable operator shall comply with all right-of-way and
easement management ordinances and/or regulations enacted by the City,
including such ordinances and/or regulations enacted after the effective date
of this permit.
   (B)   Restoration of public ways. If, during the course of the cable
operator’s construction, operation or maintenance of the cable system, there
occurs a disturbance of any public way by the cable operator, it shall, at its
expense, replace and restore such public way to a condition reasonably
comparable to the condition of the public way existing immediately prior to
such disturbance.
   (C)   Relocation at request of the City. Upon its receipt of reasonable
advance notice, the cable operator shall, at its own expense, protect, support,
temporarily disconnect, relocate in the public way or remove from the public
way, any property of the cable operator when lawfully required by the City by
reason of traffic conditions; public safety; street abandonment; freeway and
street construction; change or establishment of street grade; installation of
sewers, drains, gas or water pipes; or any other type of structures or
improvements by the City; but the cable operator shall in all cases have the
right of abandonment of its property. If public funds are available to any
company using such street, easement or right-of-way for the purpose of
defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, such funds shall also be made
available to the cable operator.
   (D)   Relocation at request of third party. Upon the request of any person
holding a city moving permit for a building or structure, the cable operator
shall temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of such
building or other structure; provided:
      (1)   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by such person, including, if required by the cable operator, making such
payment in advance; and
      (2)   The cable operator is given not fewer than ten business days
advance written notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   (E)   Trimming of trees and shrubs. The cable operator shall have the
authority to trim trees or other natural growth overhanging any of its cable
system in the service area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact
with the cable operator’s wires, cables or other equipment. The cable operator
shall reasonably compensate the City or the property owner for any damages
caused by such trimming.
   (F)   Safety requirements. Construction, installation and maintenance of the
cable system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All such
work shall be performed in substantial accordance with applicable FCC or other
federal, state and local regulations. The cable system shall not unreasonably
endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in the service
area.
   (G)   Aerial and underground construction.
      (1)   In those areas of the service area where all of the transmission or
distribution facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are underground, the cable operator
likewise shall construct, operate and maintain all of its transmission and
distribution facilities underground; provided that such facilities are actually
capable of receiving the cable operator’s cable and other equipment without
technical degradation of the cable system’s signal quality.
      (2)   In those areas of the service area where the transmission or
distribution facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are both aerial and underground, the cable
operator shall have the sole discretion to construct, operate and maintain all
of its transmission and distribution facilities, or any part thereof, aerially
or underground. Nothing contained in this subsection (G) shall require the
cable operator to construct, operate and maintain underground any ground-
mounted appurtenances such as subscriber taps, line extenders, system passive
devices (splitters, directional couplers), amplifiers, power supplies,
pedestals or other related equipment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
subsection (G) in the event that all of the transmission or distribution
facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are placed underground after the effective
date of this article, the cable operator shall only be required to construct,
operate and maintain all of its transmission and distribution facilities
underground if it is given reasonable notice and access to the public
utilities’ facilities at the time that such are placed underground.
   (H)   Subscriber charges for extension of service. No subscriber shall be
refused service arbitrarily. However, if an area does not meet the density
requirements of §
7-9H-3, the cable operator shall only be required to extend the cable system to
subscribers in that area if the subscribers are willing to cover the capital
costs of extending the cable system. The cable operator may require that such
potential Subscribers pay the capital contribution for such construction in
advance. Subscribers shall also be responsible for any standard/non-standard
installation charges to extend the cable system from the tap to the residence.
   (I)   Office and service in the City. During the term of the permit, the
cable provider will have an office and service technicians located in the City.
   (J)   Force majeure. The cable operator shall not be held in default under,
or in noncompliance with, the provisions of the permit, nor suffer any
enforcement or penalty relating to noncompliance or default, where such
noncompliance or alleged defaults occurred or were caused by circumstances
reasonably beyond the ability of the cable operator to control. This provision
includes, but is not limited to, severe or unusual weather conditions, fire,
flood or other acts of God; strikes; work delays caused by failure of utility
providers to service, maintain or monitor utility poles to which the cable
operator’s cable system is attached, as well as unavailability of materials
and/or qualified labor to perform the work necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-8) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-9 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)    Permit fee.
      (1)   (a)   During the term of this permit, the cable operator shall pay
to the City a fee equal to five percent (5%) of:
            1.   The gross revenues that the cable operator and its affiliates
collected from each subscriber for the cable operator’s cable services during
the applicable calendar quarter; and
            2.   The advertising revenues collected by the cable operator as
further described in subsection (A)(2)(g) below (collectively, the “permit
fee”).
         (b)   The portion of the permit fee described in subsection (A)(1)
(a)1. above may be identified and passed through on any subscriber bill by the
cable operator, and all such fees collected will be forwarded to the City
quarterly and shall be due 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. The
cable operator and the City agree that the permit fee shall be in lieu of all
other concessions, charges, excises, franchise, license, privilege, permit
fees, taxes or assessments except sales taxes, personal or real property taxes
and ad valorem taxes.
      (2)   For purposes of this permit, gross revenues are limited to the
following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable services;
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable services, including but not
limited to pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable services equipment;
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable services,
including, but not limited to, activation, installation and repair;
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable
services, including, but not limited to, service order and service termination
charges;
         (f)   Amounts billed to cable services subscribers to recover the
permit fee authorized by this section; and
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue collected by the cable
operator pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising (less any
commissions the cable operator receives from any third parties for advertising)
and home-shopping sales derived from the operation of the cable operator’s
cable system within the service area. Advertising commissions paid to third
parties (excluding any refunds, rebates or discounts the cable operator may
make to advertisers) shall not be deducted from advertising revenue included in
gross revenue. The allocation of advertising and home-shopping revenue referred
to above shall be based on the number of subscribers in the City divided by the
total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional or national
compensation arrangement.
      (3)   For purposes of this permit, gross revenues do not include:
         (a)   Uncollectible fees; provided that all or part of uncollectible
fees which is written off as bad debt but subsequently collected, less expenses
of collection, shall be included in gross revenues in the period collected;
         (b)   Late payment fees;
         (c)   Revenues from contracts for in-home maintenance service unless
they relate solely to maintenance on equipment used only for the provisioning
of cable services and not for the provisioning of any other service provided by
the cable operator or its affiliates;
         (d)   Amounts billed to cable services subscribers to recover taxes,
fees or surcharges imposed upon cable services subscribers in connection with
the provision of cable services, other than the permit fee authorized by this
section;
         (e)   Revenue from the sale of capital assets or surplus equipment; or
         (f)   Charges, other than those described in subsection (A)(1) above,
that are aggregated or bundled with amounts billed to cable services
subscribers.
      (4)   In the event that any other video services provider, including, but
not limited to, a cable operator or open video service provider, enters into
any agreement or makes any arrangement with the City during the term of this
permit whereby it is required or allowed to pay a fee to the City that is
similar to the permit fee described herein, this permit shall be amended to
allow the cable operator to substitute the definition of “gross revenue” set
forth in that agreement or arrangement for the definition of “gross revenue”
set forth in this permit immediately upon request of the cable operator.
   (B)   Bundling discount. Bundling discounts shall be apportioned fairly
among video and other services. The cable operator shall not apportion revenue
in such a manner as to avoid the permit fee.
   (C)   Exclusion. The permit fee shall not apply to Internet access or
Internet-based telephone services offered by the cable operator. If the FCC or
any other federal or state governmental authority with jurisdiction to do so
authorizes the collection of such a fee during the term of this permit, then
the cable operator shall, upon reasonable notice of the imposition of such a
fee by the City that applies equally to all internet access or internet-based
telephone service providers within the service area, commence remittance of a
fee in the amount of not more than five percent (5%) of the gross revenues
collected from the sale of such internet access or internet-based telephone
services during the remaining term of this permit; provided that the City and
the cable operator agree to the specific amount in a permit amendment. This
exclusion shall not apply to the payment of statutory “911” fees; such fees
shall be collected and remitted by the cable operator beginning the effective
date of this permit as required by applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-9) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-10 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The City may not regulate the rates for the provision of cable service or
other service, including, but not limited to, ancillary charges relating
thereto, except as expressly provided herein and except as may be authorized
pursuant to federal and state law. From time to time, and at any time, the
cable operator has the right to modify its rates and charges, at its discretion
and without consent of the City, including, but not limited to, the
implementation of additional charges and rates; provided, however, that the
cable operator shall give notice to the City 30 days prior to the effective
date of any such modifications or additional charges.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-10) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-11 SALE AND TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Except to the extent expressly required by federal or state law, if a
renewal or extension of the permit is denied or the permit is lawfully
terminated, and the City either lawfully acquires ownership of the cable system
or by its actions lawfully effects a transfer of ownership of the cable system
to another party, any such acquisition or transfer shall be at a fair market
value, determined on the basis of the cable system valued as a going concern.
   (B)   The cable operator and the City agree that in the case of a lawful
revocation of the permit, at the cable operator’s request, which shall be made
in its sole discretion, the cable operator shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to effectuate a transfer of its cable system to a qualified third
party. The City further agrees that during such period of time, it shall
authorize the cable operator to continue to operate pursuant to the terms of
its prior permit; however, in no event shall such authorization exceed a period
of time greater than six months from the effective date of such revocation. If,
at the end of that time, the cable operator is unsuccessful in procuring a
qualified transferee or assignee of its cable system which is reasonably
acceptable to the City, the cable operator and the City may avail themselves of
any rights they may have pursuant to federal or state law; it being further
agreed that the cable operator’s continued operation of its cable system during
the six-month period shall not be deemed to be a waiver, nor an extinguishment
of, any rights of either the City or the cable operator.
   (C)   All of the rights and privileges and all of the obligations, duties
and liabilities created by this permit shall pass to and be binding upon the
successors of the City and the successors and assigns of the cable operator and
the same shall not be assigned or transferred without the written approval of
the City Council, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned or delayed; provided, however, that this section shall not prevent
the assignment or hypothecation of the permit by the cable operator as security
for debt without such approval; and provided further that transfers or
assignments of this permit between any parent and subsidiary corporation or
between entities of which at least fifty percent (50%) of the beneficial
ownership is held by the same person, persons or entities which are controlled
or managed by the same person, persons or entities, shall be permitted without
the prior approval of the City. The cable operator shall notify the City in
writing within 30 days of the closing of such intracompany transfer.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-11) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-12 COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING.
   The cable operator agrees that the City may review such of the cable
operator’s books and records, during normal business hours and on a
nondisruptive basis, as are reasonably necessary to monitor compliance with the
financial and standards of service terms hereof. Such records include, but are
not limited to, any public records required to be kept by the cable operator
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the FCC. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary set forth herein, the cable operator shall not be required to
disclose information which it reasonably deems to be proprietary or
confidential in nature. The City agrees to treat any proprietary or
confidential information, if identified as such by the cable operator prior to
receipt, as confidential, to the extent not prohibited by law, and to disclose
it only to employees, representatives and agents of the City that have a need
to know, or in order to enforce the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-12) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-13 INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION, BONDS AND SURETY.
   (A)   Insurance. The cable operator shall maintain in full force and effect
during the term of the permit, at its own cost and expense, comprehensive
general liability insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000. Such
insurance shall designate the City as an additional insured to the liability
limits imposed by the Oklahoma Governmental Tort Claims Act, 51 O.S. §§ 151 et
seq.
   (B)   Indemnification. The cable operator agrees to indemnify, save and hold
harmless, and defend the City, its trusts, its officers, boards and employees,
from and against any liability for damages and for any liability or claims, in
each case resulting from property damage or bodily injury (including accidental
death) which arise out of the cable operator’s construction, operation or
maintenance of its cable system, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs.
   (C)   Bonds and surety. Except as expressly provided herein, the cable
operator shall not be required to obtain or maintain bonds or other surety as a
condition of being awarded the permit or continuing its existence. The City
acknowledges that the legal, financial and technical qualifications of the
cable operator are sufficient to afford compliance with the terms of the permit
and the enforcement thereof. The cable operator and the City recognize that the
costs associated with bonds and other surety may ultimately be borne by the
subscribers in the form of increased rates for the cable service or other
service. In order to minimize such costs, the City agrees to require bonds and
other surety only in such amounts and during such times as there is a
reasonably demonstrated need therefor. The City agrees that in no event,
however, shall it require a bond or other related surety in an aggregate amount
greater than $100,000 conditioned upon the substantial performance of the
material terms, covenants and conditions of the permit. Initially, no bond or
other surety shall be required. In the event that one is required in the
future, the City agrees to give the cable operator at least 60 days’ prior
written notice thereof stating the exact reason for the requirement. Such
reason must demonstrate a change in the cable operator’s legal, financial or
technical qualifications which would materially prohibit or impair its ability
to comply with the terms of the permit or afford compliance therewith.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-13) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-14 PUBLIC, GOVERNMENT AND EDUCATION ACCESS.
   During the term of this permit, the cable operator shall provide to the
City, two dedicated, noncommercial access channels for use by the City, and one
dedicated, noncommercial access channel for use by educational institutions
within the City through the cable operator’s cable system so long as the City
and the educational institutions designated by the City provide any educational
or governmental programming content in a format compatible with the cable
operator’s technology. The City and the educational institutions designated by
the City shall provide this programming, and the cable operator shall receive
this programming, at the cable operator’s signal origination point. The City
and the educational institutions designated by the City shall be solely and
individually responsible for their own programming content.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-14) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-15 EMERGENCY ALERT.
   The cable operator shall comply with the federal emergency alert system
regulations pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 11 or any other federal emergency system
regulations that apply to the cable operator in the future with which the cable
operator is required to comply under applicable federal law.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-15) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 7-9H-16 PREEMPTION.
   If the FCC or any other federal or state agency exercises exclusive
jurisdiction over the subject matter of the permit, to the extent such
jurisdiction preempts or supersedes the permitting jurisdiction of the City,
said jurisdiction of the City shall cease.
(Prior Code, § 7-9H-16) (Ord. 2021-11, passed 8-17-2021)
ARTICLE I: CEBRIDGE (SUDDENLINK/OPTIMUM) CATV PERMITTING
§ 7-9I-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   AFFILIATE. An entity which owns or controls, is owned or controlled by or is
under common ownership or control with the cable operator.
   BASIC CABLE.   The tier of cable service regularly provided to all
subscribers that includes the retransmission of local broadcast television
signals.
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming
or other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection or use of such video programming or other
programming service.
   CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment or other
equipment that is designed to provide cable service or other service to
subscribers.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or successor governmental entity
thereto.
   PERMIT. The initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the City
whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license,
resolution, contract, certificate or otherwise, which authorizes construction
and operation of the cable system for the purpose of offering cable service or
other service to subscribers.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust,
corporation or governmental entity.
   PUBLIC WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other public right-of-way,
including, but not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated utility
strips or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary or
permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the
City in the service area which shall entitle the City and the cable operator to
the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating, repairing and
maintaining the cable system. PUBLIC WAY also means any easement now or
hereafter held by the City within the service area for the purpose of public
travel, or for utility or public service use dedicated for compatible uses, and
shall include other easements or rights-of-way as shall, within their proper
use and meaning, entitle the City and the cable operator to the use thereof for
the purposes of installing or transmitting the cable operator’s cable service
or other service over poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits,
vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other
related property or equipment as may be necessary or appurtenant to the cable
system.
   SERVICE AREA. The present municipal boundaries of the City and all areas
annexed into the City in the future.
   SUBSCRIBER. A user of the cable system who lawfully receives cable service
with the cable operator’s express permission.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-2 GRANT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City hereby grants to the cable operator a nonexclusive permit
which authorizes the cable operator to construct and operate a cable system and
offer cable service and other service in, along, among, upon, across, above,
over, under or in any manner connected with public ways within the service area
and for that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
reconstruct, maintain or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across or along any
public way and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, such poles, wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
   (B)   Nothing in this permit shall be construed to prohibit the cable
operator from offering any service over its cable system that is not prohibited
by applicable law.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-3 BUILD-OUT REQUIREMENTS.
   The cable operator shall build out the cable system over a reasonable period
of time, and provided that the City timely issues permits and other owners and
users of critical infrastructure (such as utility poles) do not cause delay,
not less than fifty percent (50%) build-out in two years and ninety percent
(90%) build-out in three years to every residence (provided that there is a
request for cable service from the cable operator in such area and excluding
any home subscribing to any satellite service) within the service area where
there is a minimum density of at least 30 residences per linear strand mile of
cable as measured from the cable operator’s closest commercially reasonable
tie-in point that is actively delivering cable service as of the date of such
request for service. If such residence is located within 125 feet of the cable
operator’s feeder cable, the cable service will be provided at the cable
operator’s published rate for standard installations. Cable service offered to
subscribers pursuant to this article shall be conditioned upon the cable
operator having legal access to any such subscriber’s dwelling unit or other
units wherein such cable service is provided. Nothing herein shall be construed
to limit the cable operator’s ability to offer or provide bulk rate discounts
or promotions.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-4 TERM AND ACCEPTANCE.
   The permit granted pursuant to this article shall be for a term of ten years
from the passed and adopted date of the permit unless otherwise lawfully
terminated in accordance with the terms of this article. The cable operator
shall accept the permit granted pursuant hereto by accepting and executing said
permit acceptance and filing same with the City Clerk within 60 days after the
granting of the permit.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-5 FAVORED NATION CLAUSE.
   (A)   In the event the City enters into or has entered into a binding permit
of any kind with any person other than the cable operator to enter into the
public ways for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable system or
providing cable service or video service to any part of the service area, the
material provisions thereof shall be reasonably comparable to those contained
herein, in order that one operator not be granted an unfair competitive
advantage over another, and to provide all parties equal protection under the
law.
   (B)   If another provider of cable services, video services or other
television services utilizing any system or technology requiring use of the
public way in the service area, is lawfully authorized by any governmental
entity or otherwise exempt in the future from obtaining a permit as provided
for in this article in order to provide such services, the City agrees that,
upon a written request from the cable operator, as a matter of law, the cable
operator’s permit will be modified within 60 days of the granting of such
authorization or exemption for the purpose of establishing the same terms and
conditions on a competitively neutral basis. Except as specifically provided in
this subsection (B), neither the City nor the cable operator shall be permitted
to take any unilateral action that materially changes the explicit mutual
promises and covenants contained in this permit, and any changes, modifications
or amendments to this permit must be made in writing, signed by the City and
the cable operator.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-6 CHANGE OF LAW.
   In the event the federal, state or local law, rules or regulations are
amended, modified or created that have the effect of modifying the terms and
conditions of this permit during the term or any extension thereof, the cable
operator has the sole option to terminate this permit upon 90 days’ notice to
the City. Nothing in this permit shall impair the right of the cable operator
to terminate this permit and, at the cable operator’s option, negotiate a
renewal or replacement franchise, license, consent, certificate or other
authorization with any appropriate government entity (such as the state). To
the extent that the cable operator lawfully obtains an authorization to operate
a network and serve customers under applicable laws in lieu of this permit, the
cable operator shall have the right to terminate this permit upon 90 days prior
written notice to the City.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-7 RENEWAL OF PERMIT AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Renewal. Prior to the end of the permit term, the City and the cable
operator agree to enter into good faith negotiations regarding the renewal,
modification and/or extension of this permit. The City and the cable operator
agree that any proceedings that relate to the renewal of this permit shall be
governed by 47 U.S.C. § 546, as amended.
   (B)   Notice. Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every
notice or response to be served upon the City or the cable operator shall be in
writing and shall be delivered by a properly sealed and correctly addressed
envelope by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, at a post office or
branch thereof regularly maintained by the U.S. Postal Service. If questioned,
the party sending a notice shall have the burden to prove receipt or rejection.
Rejected notices shall be deemed delivered. The parties may designate such
other address or addresses, from time to time, by giving notice to the other in
the manner provided for in this section. The notice and contact information for
the City and the cable operator shall be set forth in the permit.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-8 STANDARDS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Conditions of street occupancy. All transmission and distribution
structures, poles, other lines and equipment installed or erected by the cable
operator pursuant to the terms hereof shall be located so as to cause a minimum
of interference with the proper use of public ways and with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that adjoins any of
such public ways. The cable operator shall comply with all right-of-way and
easement management ordinances and/or regulations enacted by the City,
including such ordinances and/or regulations enacted after the effective date
of this permit.
   (B)   Restoration of public ways. If during the course of the cable
operator’s construction, operation or maintenance of the cable system there
occurs a disturbance of any public way by the cable operator, it shall, at its
expense, replace and restore such public way to a condition reasonably
comparable to the condition of the public way existing immediately prior to
such disturbance.
   (C)   Relocation at request of the City. Upon its receipt of reasonable
advance notice, the cable operator shall, at its own expense, protect, support,
temporarily disconnect, relocate in the public way or remove from the public
way, any property of the cable operator when lawfully required by the City by
reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street abandonment, freeway and
street construction, change or establishment of street grade, installation of
sewers, drains, gas or water pipes, or any other type of structures or
improvements by the City; but the cable operator shall, in all cases, have the
right of abandonment of its property. If public funds are available to any
company using such street, easement or right-of-way for the purpose of
defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, such funds shall also be made
available to the cable operator.
   (D)   Relocation at request of third party. Upon the request of any person
holding a city moving permit for a building or structure, the cable operator
shall temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of such
building or other structure; provided:
      (1)   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by such person, including, if required by the cable operator, making such
payment in advance; and
      (2)   The cable operator is given not fewer than ten business days
advance written notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   (E)   Trimming of trees and shrubs. The cable operator shall have the
authority to trim trees or other natural growth overhanging any of its cable
system in the service area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact
with the cable operator’s wires, cables or other equipment. The cable operator
shall reasonably compensate the City or the property owner for any damages
caused by such trimming.
   (F)   Safety requirements. Construction, installation and maintenance of the
cable system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All such
work shall be performed in substantial accordance with applicable FCC or other
federal, state and local regulations. The cable system shall not unreasonably
endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in the service
area.
   (G)   Aerial and underground construction.
      (1)   In those areas of the service area where all of the transmission or
distribution facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are underground, the cable operator
likewise shall construct, operate and maintain all of its transmission and
distribution facilities underground; provided that such facilities are actually
capable of receiving cable operator’s cable and other equipment without
technical degradation of the cable system’s signal quality.
      (2)   In those areas of the service area where the transmission or
distribution facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are both aerial and underground, the cable
operator shall have the sole discretion to construct, operate and maintain all
of its transmission and distribution facilities, or any part thereof, aerially
or underground. Nothing contained in this subsection (G), shall require the
cable operator to construct, operate and maintain underground any ground-
mounted appurtenances such as subscriber taps, line extenders, system passive
devices (splitters, directional couplers), amplifiers, power supplies,
pedestals or other related equipment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
subsection (G) in the event that all of the transmission or distribution
facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are placed underground after the effective
date of this article, the cable operator shall only be required to construct,
operate and maintain all of its transmission and distribution facilities
underground if it is given reasonable notice and access to the public
utilities’ facilities at the time that such are placed underground.
   (H)   Subscriber charges for extension of service. No subscriber shall be
refused service arbitrarily. However, if an area does not meet the density
requirements of §
7-9H-3, the cable operator shall only be required to extend the cable system to
subscribers in that area if the subscribers are willing to cover the capital
costs of extending the cable system. The cable operator may require that such
potential subscribers pay the capital contribution for such construction in
advance. Subscribers shall also be responsible for any standard/non-standard
installation charges to extend the cable system from the tap to the residence.
   (I)   Office and service in the City. During the term of the permit, the
cable provider will have an office and service technicians located in the City.
   (J)   Force majeure. The cable operator shall not be held in default under,
or in noncompliance with, the provisions of the permit, nor suffer any
enforcement or penalty relating to noncompliance or default, where such
noncompliance or alleged defaults occurred or were caused by circumstances
reasonably beyond the ability of the cable operator to control. This provision
includes, but is not limited to, severe or unusual weather conditions, fire,
flood or other acts of God, strikes, work delays caused by failure of utility
providers to service, maintain or monitor utility poles to which the cable
operator’s cable system is attached, as well as unavailability of materials
and/or qualified labor to perform the work necessary.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-9 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Permit fee.
      (1)   (a)   During the term of this permit, the cable operator shall pay
to the City a fee equal to five percent (5%) of:
            1.   The gross revenues that the cable operator and its affiliates
collected from each subscriber for the cable operator’s cable services during
the applicable calendar quarter; and
            2.   The advertising revenues collected by the cable operator as
further described in subsection (A)(2)(g) below (collectively, the “permit
fee”).
         (b)   The portion of the permit fee described in subsection (A)(1)
(a)1. above may be identified and passed through on any subscriber bill by the
cable operator, and all such fees collected will be forwarded to the City
quarterly and shall be due 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. The
cable operator and the City agree that the permit fee shall be in lieu of all
other concessions, charges, excises, franchise, license, privilege, permit
fees, taxes or assessments except sales taxes, personal or real property taxes
and ad valorem taxes.
      (2)   For purposes of this permit, gross revenues are limited to the
following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable services;
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable services, including, but not
limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable services equipment;
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable services,
including, but not limited to, activation, installation and repair;
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable
services, including, but not limited to, service order and service termination
charges;
         (f)   Amounts billed to cable services subscribers to recover the
permit fee authorized by this section; and
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue collected by the cable
operator pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising (less any
commissions the cable operator receives from any third parties for advertising)
and home-shopping sales derived from the operation of the cable operator’s
cable system within the service area. Advertising commissions paid to third
parties (excluding any refunds, rebates or discounts the cable operator may
make to advertisers) shall not be deducted from advertising revenue included in
gross revenue. The allocation of advertising and home-shopping revenue referred
to above shall be based on the number of subscribers in the City divided by the
total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional or national
compensation arrangement.
      (3)   For purposes of this permit, gross revenues do not include:
         (a)   Uncollectible fees; provided that all or part of uncollectible
fees which is written off as bad debt but subsequently collected, less expenses
of collection, shall be included in gross revenues in the period collected;
         (b)   Late payment fees;
         (c)   Revenues from contracts for in-home maintenance service unless
they relate solely to maintenance on equipment used only for the provisioning
of cable services and not for the provisioning of any other service provided by
the cable operator or its affiliates;
         (d)   Amounts billed to cable services subscribers to recover taxes,
fees or surcharges imposed upon cable services subscribers in connection with
the provision of cable services, other than the permit fee authorized by this
section;
         (e)   Revenue from the sale of capital assets or surplus equipment; or
         (f)   Charges, other than those described in subsection (A)(1) above,
that are aggregated or bundled with amounts billed to cable services
subscribers.
      (4)   In the event that any other video services provider, including, but
not limited to, a cable operator or open video service provider, enters into
any agreement or makes any arrangement with the City during the term of this
permit whereby it is required or allowed to pay a fee to the City that is
similar to the permit fee described herein, this permit shall be amended to
allow the cable operator to substitute the definition of “gross revenue” set
forth in that agreement or arrangement for the definition of “gross revenue”
set forth in this permit immediately upon request of the cable operator.
   (B)   Bundling discount. Bundling discounts shall be apportioned fairly
among video and other services. The cable operator shall not apportion revenue
in such a manner as to avoid the permit fee.
   (C)   Exclusion. The permit fee shall not apply to Internet access or
Internet-based telephone services offered by the cable operator. If the FCC or
any other federal or state governmental authority with jurisdiction to do so
authorizes the collection of such a fee during the term of this permit, then
the cable operator shall, upon reasonable notice of the imposition of such a
fee by the City that applies equally to all Internet access or Internet-based
telephone service providers within the service area, commence remittance of a
fee in the amount of not more than five percent (5%) of the gross revenues
collected from the sale of such Internet access or Internet-based telephone
services during the remaining term of this permit; provided that the City and
the cable operator agree to the specific amount in a permit amendment. This
exclusion shall not apply to the payment of statutory “911” fees; such fees
shall be collected and remitted by the cable operator beginning the effective
date of this permit as required by applicable law.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-10 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The City may not regulate the rates for the provision of cable service or
other service, including, but not limited to, ancillary charges relating
thereto, except as expressly provided herein and except as may be authorized
pursuant to federal and state law. From time to time, and at any time, the
cable operator has the right to modify its rates and charges, at its discretion
and without consent of the City, including, but not limited to, the
implementation of additional charges and rates; provided, however, that the
cable operator shall give notice to the City 30 days prior to the effective
date of any such modifications or additional charges.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-11 SALE AND TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Except to the extent expressly required by federal or state law, if a
renewal or extension of the permit is denied or the permit is lawfully
terminated, and the City either lawfully acquires ownership of the cable system
or by its actions lawfully effects a transfer of ownership of the cable system
to another party, any such acquisition or transfer shall be at a fair market
value, determined on the basis of the cable system valued as a going concern.
   (B)   The cable operator and the City agree that in the case of a lawful
revocation of the permit, at the cable operator’s request, which shall be made
in its sole discretion, the cable operator shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to effectuate a transfer of its cable system to a qualified third
party.
   (C)   The City further agrees that during such period of time, it shall
authorize the cable operator to continue to operate pursuant to the terms of
its prior permit; however, in no event shall such authorization exceed a period
of time greater than six months from the effective date of such revocation. If,
at the end of that time, the cable operator is unsuccessful in procuring a
qualified transferee or assignee of its cable system which is reasonably
acceptable to the City, the cable operator and the City may avail themselves of
any rights they may have pursuant to federal or state law; it being further
agreed that the cable operator’s continued operation of its cable system during
the six-month period shall not be deemed to be a waiver, nor an extinguishment
of; any rights of either the City or the cable operator.
   (D)   All of the rights and privileges and all of the obligations, duties
and liabilities created by this permit shall pass to and be binding upon the
successors of the City and the successors and assigns of the cable operator and
the same shall not be assigned or transferred without the written approval of
the City Council, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned or delayed; provided, however, that this section shall not prevent
the assignment or hypothecation of the permit by the cable operator as security
for debt without such approval; and provided further that transfers or
assignments of this permit between any parent and subsidiary corporation or
between entities of which at least fifty percent (50%) of the beneficial
ownership is held by the same person, persons or entities which are controlled
or managed by the same person, persons or entities, shall be permitted without
the prior approval of the City. The cable operator shall notify the City in
writing within 30 days of the closing of such intracompany transfer.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-12 COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING.
   The cable operator agrees that the City may review such of the cable
operator’s books and records, during normal business hours and on a
nondisruptive basis, as are reasonably necessary to monitor compliance with the
financial and standards of service terms hereof. Such records include, but are
not limited to, any public records required to be kept by the cable operator
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the FCC. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary set forth herein, the cable operator shall not be required to
disclose information which it reasonably deems to be proprietary or
confidential in nature. The City agrees to treat any proprietary or
confidential information, if identified as such by the cable operator prior to
receipt, as confidential, to the extent not prohibited by law, and to disclose
it only to employees, representatives and agents of the City that have a need
to know, or in order to enforce the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-13 INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION, BONDS AND SURETY.
   (A)   Insurance. The cable operator shall maintain in full force and effect
during the term of the permit, at its own cost and expense, comprehensive
general liability insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000. Such
insurance shall designate the City as an additional insured to the liability
limits imposed by the Oklahoma Governmental Tort Claims Act, 51 O.S. §§ 151 et
seq.
   (B)   Indemnification. The cable operator agrees to indemnify, save and hold
harmless, and defend the City, its trusts, its officers, boards and employees,
from and against any liability for damages and for any liability or claims, in
each case resulting from property damage or bodily injury (including accidental
death) which arise out of the cable operator’s construction, operation or
maintenance of its cable system, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs.
   (C)   Bonds and surety. Except as expressly provided herein, the cable
operator shall not be required to obtain or maintain bonds or other surety as a
condition of being awarded the permit or continuing its existence. The City
acknowledges that the legal, financial and technical qualifications of the
cable operator are sufficient to afford compliance with the terms of the permit
and the enforcement thereof. The cable operator and the City recognize that the
costs associated with bonds and other surety may ultimately be borne by the
subscribers in the form of increased rates for the cable service or other
service. In order to minimize such costs, the City agrees to require bonds and
other surety only in such amounts and during such times as there is a
reasonably demonstrated need therefor. The City agrees that in no event,
however, shall it require a bond or other related surety in an aggregate amount
greater than $100,000 conditioned upon the substantial performance of the
material terms, covenants and conditions of the permit. Initially, no bond or
other surety shall be required. In the event that one is required in the
future, the City agrees to give the cable operator at least 60 days prior
written notice thereof stating the exact reason for the requirement. Such
reason must demonstrate a change in the cable operator’s legal, financial or
technical qualifications which would materially prohibit or impair its ability
to comply with the terms of the permit or afford compliance therewith.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-14 PUBLIC, GOVERNMENT AND EDUCATION ACCESS.
   (A)   During the term of this permit, the cable operator shall provide to
the City, two dedicated, noncommercial access channels for use by the City, and
one dedicated, noncommercial access channel for use by educational institutions
within the City through the cable operator’s cable system so long as the City
and the educational institutions designated by the City provide any educational
or governmental programming content in a format compatible with the cable
operator’s technology.
   (B)   The City and the educational institutions designated by the City shall
provide this programming, and the cable operator shall receive this
programming, at the cable operator’s signal origination point.
   (C)   The City and the educational institutions designated by the City shall
be solely and individually responsible for their own programming content.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-15 EMERGENCY ALERT.
   The cable operator shall comply with the federal emergency alert system
regulations pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 11 or any other federal emergency system
regulations that apply to the cable operator in the future with which the cable
operator is required to comply under applicable federal law.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 7-9I-16 PREEMPTION.
   If the FCC or any other federal or state agency exercises exclusive
jurisdiction over the subject matter of the permit, to the extent such
jurisdiction preempts or supersedes the permitting jurisdiction of the City,
said jurisdiction of the City shall cease.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-19-2023)
CHAPTER 10: LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
7-10-1   Enid and Garfield County Public Library Board of Directors
   
7-10-2   Composition of Board
   
7-10-3   Terms
   
7-10-4   Meetings
   
7-10-5   Scope of duties
§ 7-10-1 ENID AND GARFIELD COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Library Board of Directors is authorized by City Charter § A.8.23.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-1) (Ord. 2008-14, passed 7-15-2008)
§ 7-10-2 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   The Board of Directors is composed of six members that are residents of the
City and one member that is a resident of the county, but does not reside in
the City, and has been nominated by the County Commissioners. All the
appointments are made by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-2) (Ord. 2008-14, passed 7-15-2008)
§ 7-10-3 TERMS.
   The members of the Board shall serve for three years or until their
successors are appointed. The terms expire on the first Monday in May of the
applicable year. No person shall serve more than two terms in succession.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-3) (Ord. 2008-14, passed 7-15-2008)
§ 7-10-4 MEETINGS.
   The meeting on the second Monday of each May shall be the meeting where the
yearly election of officers shall be made by majority vote of the Board. The
officers shall be President, Vice President and secretary. Other meetings may
be scheduled as the members choose. A quorum of this Board is the majority of
the members.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-4) (Ord. 2008-14, passed 7-15-2008)
§ 7-10-5 SCOPE OF DUTIES.
   The Board’s duties shall include:
   (A)   Conducting hearings or meetings when needed;
   (B)   Annual review of the library budget to include recommendations
concerning expenditures and projects;
   (C)   Reviewing, developing and adopting library policies that affect
patrons, public service and the availability of services for residents
throughout the county;
   (D)   Developing a long term plan for the library, particularly as it
relates to collection development, special programming, technology,
infrastructure and the Library Endowment Fund; and
   (E)   Making recommendations to the City Manager concerning the hiring,
performance and retention of the Library Director.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-5) (Ord. 2013-18, passed 3-5-2013)
CHAPTER 11: ART IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
7-11-1   Purpose
   
7-11-2   Definitions
   
7-11-3   Art in public places account
   
7-11-4   Dedication for art
   
7-11-5   Display of art in public places
   
7-11-6   Acquisition of public art
   
7-11-7   Ownership
   
7-11-8   Public Arts Commission of Enid
   
7-11-9   Duties of the Public Arts Commission of Enid
   
7-11-10   Art in public places collection policy
   
7-11-11   Guidelines
   
7-11-12   Art selection
   
7-11-13   Works of art on city sidewalks and rights-of-way
§ 7-11-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To provide a means to fund the acquisition, display and maintenance of
works of art by the City, and to integrate art when appropriate into major city
construction projects;
   (B)   To create an Arts Commission to help promote art in public places
throughout the City, to assist in the selection of works of art for the City’s
collection and to aid in the developing of programs to enhance and maintain the
collection; and
   (C)   To provide a permitting process to facilitate the display of art on
city streets and rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-1) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ART IN PUBLIC PLACES. Any “work of art”, located on city property or in a
city building or facility or in areas designated as public, or on other
property if the work of art is installed or financed, either wholly or in part,
with city funds or grants procured by the City.
   CITY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. All city buildings, gateways, parks, plazas,
medians, roads, excluding road overlay projects and other public areas except
service facilities not normally visited by the public.
   CONSTRUCTION COSTS. Any costs related to public work projects, such as the
estimated construction costs of projects proposed for the capital improvement
plan.
   CONSTRUCTION or ALTERATION. Construction, rehabilitation, renovation,
remodeling or improvement as it relates to public works projects.
   MAJOR CITY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. A city construction project or city
alteration project where the City’s construction cost is between $250,000 and
$10,000,000.
   PARK. Any city owned greenbelt area or public park.
   WORK OF ART. Includes, but is not limited to, a sculpture, fountain,
monument, mural, fresco, relief, painting, carving, stained glass installation
and permanently installed musical instruments. WORK OF ART would normally not
include landscaping, paving, architectural ornamentation or signs.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-2) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-3 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES ACCOUNT.
   Consistent with this chapter, an art in public places account shall be
established. Donations, grants or other charitable contributions may be
deposited in the account along with such other funds as determined by the City
Council.
   (A)   Monies credited to such account shall be expended only on acquisition
of works of art, maintenance and repair of works of art and direct and indirect
expenses of administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Monies received under this chapter can be pooled for larger projects
or designated to a specific project.
   (C)   All unexpended monies in the account shall be carried over and
budgeted in the next fiscal year.
   (D)   All public arts contracts shall require the artist to design, produce,
deliver and install a work of art for a guaranteed maximum cost. The cost may
include the cost of the work itself and any associated costs which may be
required or are inherently related to the implementation of the project. The
following costs are eligible for funding.
      (1)   Art. The work of art itself, including, but not limited to: artist
design fee, artist operating expenses related to the project, travel expenses
related to the project, transportation of the work of art to the site, design,
preparation and construction of the site and installation of work of art,
identification plaques and labels, mountings, anchorages, containments,
pedestals, materials necessary for installation, location or security of
artwork, photographs or slides of the completed work for the purpose of routine
documentation of the project, permits or fees necessary for installation,
landscaping, engineering, lighting, electrical work, audio, legal cost related
to the project and such other costs as may be necessary and prudent.
      (2)   Selection, acquisition and maintenance. Fund monies are to be used
for the selection, acquisition, maintenance or repair of works of art or
construction of art displays or art spaces.
      (3)   Administrative fees. Monies may be used to administer the projects
established under this code.
   (E)   Determination of use of funds for art selection and the initial
funding of public art shall be at the discretion of the City Council. However,
the ongoing maintenance and administration of projects shall be pursuant to the
City’s Financial Procedure Manual and the applicable sections of this code.
   (F)   It is anticipated that the Public Arts Commission of Enid will receive
requests to fund portions of public art projects from schools, civic clubs,
businesses or individuals. On such occasions, funds from the art in public
places account may be used to fund up to fifty percent (50%) of the art
directly financed by such public art projects whether on public or privately
owned land and placed on privately owned land. However, the city contribution
shall not exceed $50,000.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-3) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017; Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-
18-2023)
§ 7-11-4 DEDICATION FOR ART.
   (A)   At the time of budget allocation for a major city construction
project, the City Council shall consider the dedication of up to one-half of
one percent (½%) of the construction cost as a set aside for the inclusion of
public art in the project.
   (B)   From the sum deducted for art, eighty percent (80%) is to be used for
acquisition of public art, ten percent (10%) is to be reserved for maintenance,
repair and ten percent (10%) may be used for administration of the projects
established under this code.
   (C)   The purpose of this dedication is to provide art for display in, upon,
adjacent to or in close proximity to the city facility that is subject of the
project. If it would be inappropriate to display art at that location, the one-
half of one percent (½%) may be used for the acquisition of art for the display
in, upon, adjacent to or in close proximity to other city projects.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-4) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017; Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-
18-2023)
§ 7-11-5 DISPLAY OF ART IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Works of art may be placed in, on or about any public place, or on
private property with substantial public exposure within the City where
appropriate by agreement with the property owner and the City.
   (B)   Works of art owned by the City may also be loaned for exhibition
elsewhere, upon such terms and conditions as deemed necessary by the City.
   (C)   City officials responsible for the design and construction of public
improvements shall make appropriate space available for the placement of works
of art, in consultation with the Public Arts Commission of Enid.
   (D)   Proposed art in public places that will be part of the City’s
permanent collection shall be reviewed by the Public Arts Commission of Enid
and its recommendation shall be considered by the City Council for approval.
   (E)   No public art that is part of the City’s permanent collection shall be
removed without the prior review of the Public Arts Commission of Enid and the
approval of the City.
   (F)   Installation, maintenance, alteration and moving of art shall be done
in consultation with the artist whenever feasible.
   (G)   The City shall maintain a record of all art in public places,
including site drawings, photographs, designs, artists and architects.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-6) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-6 ACQUISITION OF PUBLIC ART.
   Various methods of providing art in public places are possible under this
chapter, for example:
   (A)   Donation by private sources;
   (B)   A partnership between the City and private businesses, other public
entities or individuals;
   (C)   Commission by the City of art for a specific location or to
commemorate a particular event or person or to promote a particular purpose;
   (D)   Artistic initiated proposals;
   (E)   Selection of already existing art;
   (F)   Displays of art temporarily on loan; or
   (G)   Temporary displays of local art such as school or city art contests
for students.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-6) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-7 OWNERSHIP.
   Except for projects administered and maintained by an outside agency, all
art acquired pursuant to this chapter shall be acquired in the name of the City
and shall vest in the City.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-7) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-8 PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION OF ENID.
   The purpose of the Public Arts Commission of Enid is to promote public art
and its display and make recommendations for the acquisition of works of art
consistent with this chapter.
   (A)   Members.
      (1)   The Public Arts Commission of Enid shall consist of a total of
seven members: six members to be appointed by the City Council and at least one
member to be a member of the City Council. Members must reside within or have
substantial ties within the city limits, such as working in the City.
      (2)   Three additional ex officio members may be appointed by the City
Council to serve without voting privileges. One of these ex officio members may
be a city youth. Advisory members can be members of the art community or have
special interest or knowledge about the arts.
      (3)   For the Board appointments in 2023, the terms will be staggered.
Two appointees will have a term of one year, two appointees will have a term of
two years and two appointees will have a term of three years. Thereafter the
terms for each Public Arts Commission of Enid members shall be for three years
or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
      (4)   In the event any member shall have a personal interest of any kind
in a matter then before the Public Arts Commission of Enid, said member shall
disclose the interest to the Public Arts Commission of Enid and abstain from
voting.
      (5)   Members may serve two full terms in succession.
   (B)   Officers.
      (1)   The officers of the Public Arts Commission of Enid shall be elected
by a majority vote of the members of the Commission. The officers shall serve a
one-year term.
      (2)   The Commission shall have a President, Vice-President and
Secretary. The President shall chair the meetings and in the President’s
absence the Vice-President shall perform this function. The Secretary shall
take the minutes at the meeting and make sure the City Clerk is given the
approved minutes.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Public Arts Commission of Enid shall hold one meeting per
quarter of the year and as required by the press of business.
      (2)   All meetings of the Public Arts Commission of Enid shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of Open Meeting Act, see 25 O.S. §§
301 et seq., and other relevant state laws.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-8) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017; Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-
18-2023)
§ 7-11-9 DUTIES OF THE PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION OF ENID.
   The duties and functions of the Public Arts Commission of Enid shall be to:
   (A)   Develop guidelines and standards for the selection and display of
public art;
   (B)   Help manage the maintenance and repair of the art in the City’s
collection;
   (C)   Help acquire by purchase, commission, donation, grant or loan works of
art for the City’s collection or for temporary display in public places; and
   (D)   Assist in the administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-9) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-10 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES COLLECTION POLICY.
   In performing its duties, the Public Arts Commission of Enid shall give
special attention to the following matters:
   (A)   Conceptual compatibility of the design with the immediate environment
of the site;
   (B)   Appropriateness of the design to the function of the site;
   (C)   Compatibility of the design and location with a unified design
character or historical character of the site;
   (D)   Creation of an internal sense of order and a desirable environment for
the general community by the design and location of the work of art;
   (E)   Preservation and integration of natural features for the project;
   (F)   Appropriateness of the materials, textures, colors and design to the
expression of the design concept; and
   (G)   Representation of a broad variety of tastes within the community and
the provision of a balanced inventory of art in public places to ensure a
variety of style, design and media throughout the community.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-10) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-11 GUIDELINES.
   The Public Arts Commission of Enid shall adopt guidelines in accordance with
the collection policy:
   (A)   To identify suitable art for city buildings and grounds;
   (B)   To facilitate the preservation of art for display;
   (C)   To develop methods for competitive selection of art; and
   (D)   For the acquisition and display of art in public places.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-11) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-12 ART SELECTION.
   (A)   Proposals for artwork should include sufficient information to assist
in evaluating the proposal and should usually include:
      (1)   Biography of artist;
      (2)   Photographs or sketch of artwork with the total cost of the
artwork;
      (3)   Detailed description of location of artwork placement;
      (4)   Total cost of artwork;
      (5)   Partnership information, if applicable, to include matching funds;
if the artwork is purchased with a partner, matching funds (at least half of
total amount), of which eighty percent (80%) shall be used for acquisition of
the art, ten percent (10%) set aside for maintenance of art and ten percent
(10%) shall be used for administration of projects; and
      (6)   Signage for the art, if applicable.
   (B)   For proposals for acquiring art in public places for the permanent
city collection, the Public Arts Commission of Enid should forward
recommendations on proposals to or present its own proposals to the City
Council for approval.
   (C)   For proposals for art that will not require expenditure of monies from
the art in public places account; or for collaborations with other entities for
displays of art temporarily; or the development of places for display;
preliminary work on Public Arts Commission of Enid ideas or art initiatives the
Public Arts Commission of Enid shall coordinate their work with the Public Arts
Commission of Enid’s staff liaison and obtain approval of expenditures of
monies from the account for such ongoing work from the City Manager.
   (D)   The Public Arts Commission of Enid shall have the option of
recommending a contract with an outside agency for the administration and
maintenance of artwork. Such recommendations shall be forwarded to the City
Council for consideration and contract approval.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-12) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 7-11-13 WORKS OF ART ON CITY SIDEWALKS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Works of art may be installed on city owned sidewalks or rights-of-way by
obtaining a permit in advance of placement on a sidewalk or right-of-way when
the following criteria are met.
   (A)   Permit application must be made to the Code Administration Department.
Such application shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, home and business address and telephone number of the
applicant and the name and address of the business;
      (2)   Proof of current liability insurance, issued by an insurance
company licensed to do business in the state, protecting the owner against all
claims for damage to property and bodily injury, including death, which may
arise from operation under or in connection with the permit. Such insurance
shall name the City as additional insured and shall provide that the policy
shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date without 30
days’ advance written notice to the City. The general liability insurance
policy shall be in the minimum aggregate amount of $500,000 total limits. The
policy renewal shall be received by the City annually;
      (3)   A sketch, to scale, of the proposed location, showing the layout
and dimensions of the existing public area and adjacent private property,
including all appurtenances; and
      (4)   Photographs, drawings or manufacturers’ brochures fully describing
the appearance of the proposed work of art.
   (B)   The application will be presented to the Public Arts Commission of
Enid to receive its recommendations prior to consideration by the City Council.
   (C)   No work of art may block or restrict the passageway to less than six
feet in width, or block ingress or egress to or from any building. No work of
art shall be placed in a manner as to block any driveway, crosswalk, parking
space or bus stop.
   (D)   No objects shall be placed around the work of art which would act as a
physical or visual barrier to the sidewalk or the rights-of-way.
   (E)   The area in which the work of art is installed must comply with the
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), see 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., the ADA
Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities (ADAAG) or regulations
promulgated by the Department of Justice for ramps.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-13) (Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-3-2017)
CHAPTER 12: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 13: DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. HOLIDAY COMMISSION
Section
   
7-13-1   Commission created
   
7-13-2   Terms of members
   
7-13-3   Officers
   
7-13-4   Meetings
   
7-13-5   Duties and responsibilities
   
7-13-6   Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Commission account
§ 7-13-1 COMMISSION CREATED.
   The Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Commission shall have 11 members. Its
members shall be appointed by the City Council and be comprised of the
following:
   (A)   A member of the City Council;
   (B)   A member from Vance Air Force Base; and
   (C)   Nine at large members.
(Prior Code, § 7-13-1) (Ord. 2017-24, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 7-13-2 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The initial terms of the reactivated commission shall be staggered: four
members shall have a term of four years; three members shall have a term of
three years; two members shall have a term of two years and the Vance member
shall have a term of one year. All terms run until their successor takes
office. Thereafter, the terms shall be three years except the Vance member’s
term shall remain one year. All members serve without compensation. Members
shall be eligible for reappointment to two successive terms.
(Prior Code, § 7-13-2) (Ord. 2017-24, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 7-13-3 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the Commission shall be elected by a majority vote of
the members of the Commission. The officers shall serve a one-year term.
   (B)   The Commission shall have a Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Treasurer and
Secretary. The President shall chair the meetings and in the President’s
absence the Vice-President shall perform this function. The Treasurer shall
report expenditures and keep track of donations. The Secretary shall take roll
and the minutes at the meetings. The city staff liaison assigned to the
Commission shall prepare the agendas and ensure they are posted timely.
(Prior Code, § 7-13-3) (Ord. 2017-24, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 7-13-4 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall hold meetings at least quarterly and as required
by the press of business.
   (B)   All business meetings of the Commission shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma Open Meeting Act, see 25 O.S. §§
301 et seq., and other relevant state laws. The staff liaison person for the
Commission will prepare the agenda and notice and posting is done timely.
(Prior Code, § 7-13-4) (Ord. 2017-24, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 7-13-5 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The duties of the Commission shall include, but not be limited to, the
following.
   (A)   The Commission shall plan and organize a yearly tribute to Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. to center around the observation of his national holiday.
   (B)   The Commission will continue to promote education by collecting
donations for the presentation of an annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
scholarship, to provide prizes for recipients of student contests to promote
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s ideals and goals, and any other expenses related
to the celebration.
   (C)   The Commission shall promote diversity, equality, education consistent
with Dr. King’s dream, work and legacy through the promotion of appropriate
activities throughout the year and by making recommendations to the City
Council as needed.
(Prior Code, § 7-13-5) (Ord. 2017-24, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 7-13-6 DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. HOLIDAY COMMISSION ACCOUNT.
   Consistent with this chapter, a Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday
Commission account shall be established. Donations from the public and local
organizations shall be deposited in the account to fund the annual Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. scholarship, student prizes and other expenses as referenced in
§
7-13-5(B).
(Prior Code, § 7-13-6) (Ord. 2017-24, passed 11-7-2017)
CHAPTER 14: ENID PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
7-14-1   Purpose and bylaws
   
7-14-2   Board membership, terms and officers
   
7-14-3   Meetings and responsibilities
§ 7-14-1 PURPOSE AND BYLAWS.
   The purpose of the Advisory Board is to confer with the General Manager of
the EPTA as to the transportation needs of residents that are 60 years old or
older. This chapter serves as the bylaws for the Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-14-1) (Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 7-14-2 BOARD MEMBERSHIP, TERMS AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Membership. The Enid Public Transportation Authority’s Advisory Board
shall consist of three individuals appointed by the EPTA Trust Manager. The
Board must have a majority of members that could qualify for assistance from
Area Agencies of Aging pursuant to the Older Americans Act of 1965, see Pub.
Law No. 89-73. The Advisory Board members cannot be city employees, trustees of
the EPTA, or be employed by an organization that receives grant funds for older
Americans.
   (B)   Terms of office. The term of office for the members is three years or
until their successor is appointed and members may serve two terms in
succession.
   (C)   Officers. The President of the Board shall be elected by a majority of
the members of the Board for a one-year term. If the President is absent from a
meeting, the remaining members will select who will chair the meeting in the
President’s absence.
(Prior Code, § 7-14-2) (Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 7-14-3 MEETINGS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Meetings. The Board shall hold a meeting quarterly and the Board shall
at its first meeting determine the schedule of meetings. These meetings
commission shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma
Open Meeting Act, see 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq., and other relevant state laws.
The General Manager shall assign a staff member of the EPTA to be the staff
liaison member to the Board and prepare the agendas and take minutes.
   (B)   Responsibilities. The Advisory Board will:
      (1)   Review the statistics on the number of older Americans utilizing
the transportation services of the EPTA and the category of the rides provided;
      (2)   Provide input on the EPTA registration process and the forms used;
      (3)   Review the satisfaction surveys of older Americans utilizing the
EPTA transportation services; and
      (4)   Give input to the General Manager as to the transportation needs of
older Americans, particularly those that are low income, in the greatest social
and economic need and have disabilities or medical conditions that could
negatively impact their mobility and contribute to their insolation.
(Prior Code, § 7-14-3) (Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-2023)
TITLE 8: UTILITIES
   Chapter
      
1.    UTILITY SERVICES; RATES
      
2.    WATER SYSTEM
      
3.    SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      
4.    SOLID WASTE
      
5.    STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
      
6.    NATURAL GAS TRANSPORTATION
      
7.    NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
CHAPTER 1: UTILITY SERVICES; RATES
Section
   
8-1-1   Utility defined
   
8-1-2   Service contract
   
8-1-3   Consumer provide correct mailing address
   
8-1-4   Joint billing
   
8-1-5   Due date and penalty for late payment
   
8-1-6   Deposit required
   
8-1-7   Termination of service for nonpayment; reconnection
   
8-1-8   Payment arrangements
   
8-1-9   Cumulative and supplemental provisions
   
8-1-10   Water and sewer connection charge
   
8-1-11   Utility service initiation and transfer fee
   
8-1-12   Fire hydrant fee
   
8-1-13   After hours service fee
   
8-1-14   Sewer service rates and charges
   
8-1-15   Termination of service for repeated code violations
§ 8-1-1 UTILITY DEFINED.
   As used in this title, the term UTILITY means the City’s water service, the
City’s sewage collection and disposal service and the City’s refuse collection
and disposal service or any combination of such services.
(1994 Code, § 34-1) (Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 8-1-2 SERVICE CONTRACT.
   (A)   Application for service; contract. Any person desiring to use the
City’s utilities shall make application therefor, and sign a contract for such
use. The application shall be a contract on the part of the person making the
same to pay for the utility services furnished as required by the ordinances of
the City.
   (B)   Right to charge, collect or change rates. The City reserves the right
to charge and collect the rates and enforce the charges provided for in this
title, in the manner herein provided, and to change the rates at any time, or
temporarily disconnect or discontinue the service at any time without notice
(when allowed) to the consumer, and which contract shall be subject to all
provisions of the ordinances of the City.
   (C)   Nonliability of city for damages. The City shall not be held
responsible for any damage by water caused or resulting from defective plumbing
or appliances on any premises supplied by water, installed by the owner or
occupant of said premises, and the fact that the agents of the City have
inspected the plumbing shall not be a basis of recovery in case of damage to
the premises from defective plumbing or appliances. Neither shall the City be
liable in case the supply of water shall be interrupted or fail by reason of
accident or any other cause whatsoever; nor shall such interruption or failure
be held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the City or in any
way relieve the consumer from any obligation of his contract.
(1994 Code, § 34-2) (Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
Cross-reference:
   Notice of termination for nonpayment of bill, see §
8-1-7
§ 8-1-3 CONSUMER PROVIDE CORRECT MAILING ADDRESS.
   Every utility consumer, whether he be the owner or tenant, shall keep the
customer service department advised as to his correct mailing address. Failure
to receive utility bills will not be a valid excuse for failure to pay same
when due.
(1994 Code, § 34-191) (Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 8-1-4 JOINT BILLING.
   The monthly charges to any premises for utility services shall be billed
monthly on a single bill or statement to each owner or occupant liable
therefor; provided, however, that such bill or statement shall separately state
the charges for each utility service rendered to the premises.
(1994 Code, § 34-192) (Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 8-1-5 DUE DATE AND PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   Utility bills shall be rendered monthly by the City, and all bills shall be
due and payable according to the stated due date listed on the bill. If any
bill is not paid within ten days of the date thereof, a penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the bill shall be added thereto.
(1994 Code, § 34-193) (Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 8-1-6 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirement. Utility customers may be required to pay to the City a
utility deposit in an amount equal to two months’ actual or estimated service
charges. The decision to impose such requirement shall be based primarily on
whether the utility customer has ever had a utility account in good standing
with the City.
   (B)   Refund. Utility deposits shall be refunded to customers following 12
months of prompt (no cutoff notices issued) utility payments to the City, upon
the request of the customer. The method of refund shall be a credit issued
against the customer’s utility account and accompanied by a written notice of
such action to the customer. Customers who discontinue service prior to the 12-
month period shall have their deposits credited against their outstanding
account balance with any remaining amount refunded directly to the customer.
   (C)   Retroactive requirement. Utility customers who have their utility
service terminated pursuant to §
8-1-7(B) may be required to immediately pay a deposit in the manner and amount
as established in subsection (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6) (Ord. 2002-23, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 8-1-7 TERMINATION OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT; RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Notice of intention to terminate. If any utility bill, or part
thereof, shall remain unpaid for a period of 30 days, the City shall give
written notice by regular United States mail to the utility services customer
to whom such bill was rendered, who shall be deemed the agent of the owner and/
or occupant of the premises for the purpose of notice, specifying the amount
due, with penalties, and advising of the City’s intention to terminate service
on a date not less than ten days after the mailing of such notice. Such notice
shall also contain a statement to the effect that the utility services customer
has a right to a hearing before the city officer or employee named in the
notice within such ten-day period and shall contain the telephone number at
which such officer or employee may be contacted to request a hearing.
   (B)   Termination of service; reconnection.
      (1)   Termination of service. If a utility bill remains unpaid, in whole
or in part, after service of the required termination notice and the
appropriate time period of such notice has expired, and if:
         (a)   No hearing before the city officer or employee named in such
notice has been requested; or
         (b)   After such hearing, if such charges are found to be properly
imposed, then the utility service may be terminated.
      (2)   Reconnection fees. Utility service which has been terminated
pursuant to the provisions of subsection (B)(1) above shall not be reconnected
until all past due utility bills, penalties and any required deposit have been
paid, together with a reconnection charge of $25.
      (3)   Unauthorized use of water. If no service contract has been
established and water has been appropriated without authorization, the service
may be terminated without notice. In these circumstances, the service may not
be initiated until utility bills with penalties, along with the utility service
initiation or transfer fee, and any required deposit has been paid, together
with a connection fee as outlined in §
2-6E-12. Additional penalties, up to and including the filing of criminal
charges as described in §
8-2-11 may be initiated.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 8-1-8 PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS.
   The customer service manager, or his designee, may make payment arrangements
with any utility user who makes a personal visit to the customer service office
in the city administration building during or before the ten-day notice period
for termination as set out in §
8-1-7(A). If payment arrangements are desired and approved by the customer
service manager, or his designee, the utility user will be required to sign an
agreement acknowledging the owed amount and agreeing to the payment
arrangements of up to 90 days. If the utility user’s gross bill, including any
subsequent months’ service incurred after signing a payment arrangement
contract, is not totally paid within the previously agreed upon payment
arrangement date, the City shall proceed with its termination procedure.
(1994 Code, § 34-197) (Prior Code, § 8-1-8)
§ 8-1-9 CUMULATIVE AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be supplemental to all ordinances of
the City, and the provisions hereof shall be cumulative to all other remedies
provided by law or ordinance for the collection of unpaid utility bills.
(1994 Code, § 34-198) (Prior Code, § 8-1-9)
§ 8-1-10 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   Charges established. There is hereby fixed and established a water and
sewer connection charge in the amount provided in §
2-6E-1 for the construction of, or addition to, any building or structure
within the City which is required to be connected to the water system or
sanitary sewer system by §§
8-2-2 or
8-3A-5 (A), or for buildings served outside the City for connection to the
water or sewer systems. This connection charge shall be paid prior to the
issuance of a building permit for such construction in the City or prior to
connection outside the City.
   (B)   Water and sewer revenue. Charges herein established shall, when
collected, become a part of the water and sewer revenue of the City and shall
be so used.
(1994 Code, § 34-3) (Prior Code, § 8-1-10)
§ 8-1-11 UTILITY SERVICE INITIATION AND TRANSFER FEE.
   There is hereby fixed and established a utility initiation and transfer fee
in the amount provided in §
2-6E-2 for the initiation of utility service or transfer of service from one
location to another.
(1994 Code, § 34-4) (Prior Code, § 8-1-11)
§ 8-1-12 FIRE HYDRANT FEE.
   There is hereby fixed and established a fire hydrant connection fee in the
amount provided in §
2-6E-3 for the placing of a temporary meter at a specific hydrant for temporary
use of water within the City.
(1994 Code, § 34-5) (Prior Code, § 8-1-12)
§ 8-1-13 AFTER HOURS SERVICE FEE.
   If a customer requests the City’s utility service to make an after hours
service call, the customer will be charged $75.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13) (Ord. 2014-35, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 8-1-14 SEWER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS UNIT. Any building or structure, or part thereof, other than a
single or multiple dwelling unit.
      CHARGING UNIT.
         (a)   Each occupied single-family dwelling.
         (b)   Each unit designed to be occupied and used by one or more
persons for living and cooking together in a multiple dwelling or apartment or
apartment hotel, where at least one of the living units is occupied.
         (c)   Each licensed lot for a mobile home or trailer coach in a mobile
home park or in a trailer court.
         (d)   Each commercial establishment or premises other than subsection
(b) or (c) above.
      COMMERCIAL USER. Includes, but is not limited to, a person, firm, company
or corporation conducting a business, buying and selling of goods, or offering
a service not necessarily for monetary reimbursement, including hotels, motels,
churches and schools, but excluding dwelling units.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING UNIT. A building or structure, or part thereof,
constructed and designed for the convenience and occupancy of more than one
family.
      SINGLE DWELLING UNIT. A building or structure, or part thereof,
constructed and designed for the convenience and occupancy of a single family.
      TOILET STOOL. A flush type toilet connected to the sanitary sewer line
and used principally for the disposal of human excreta.
   (B)   Service charges.
      (1)   There are hereby fixed and established for the use of the sanitary
sewers by charging units within the City the monthly charges provided in §
2-6E-6.
      (2)   All users of the city sewer system having connections without the
corporate limits of the City shall be charged the fees provided in §
2-6E-7. The City does not obligate itself to furnish sanitary service to any
person whomsoever, but will furnish such service as it is reasonably within its
financial and physical ability so to do.
(1994 Code, §§ 34-104 and 34-105) (Prior Code, § 8-1-14)
Cross-reference:
   See also
Chapter 3 , Articles A through H of this title for sewer regulations, and
Title 2, Chapter 6 , Article E for rates and charges
§ 8-1-15 TERMINATION OF SERVICE FOR REPEATED CODE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice of intent to terminate. Upon a third conviction within five
years of any of the following §§
4-3-2,
4-4-2 ,
4-5-8 ,
4-6-8 ,
7-7-2 ,
8-4-7 ,
9-9-2 ,
11-14-8  or any combination of those sections, the person’s water service shall
be terminated after written notice to the person, which may be made by the
Court Clerk at the time the person enters a plea or by regular United States
mail to the occupant of the premises where the last violation of this code
occurred. The notice will advise of the City’s intent to terminate service
within ten days from the delivery or mailing of the notice. Such notice shall
also provide that the person may request a hearing before the city official
named in the notice within the ten-day period and it will state the telephone
number where said official may be contacted to request a hearing.
   (B)   Termination of service. After the required notification period has
passed and if a hearing has not been requested, the service will be terminated.
If the hearing is requested and there exists no circumstances that justify the
continuation of service, the service will be terminated.
   (C)   Reconnection. Any water service which has been terminated under this
section shall not be reconnected until the conditions that resulted in the
convictions have been abated, together with a reconnection charge of $25 have
been paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-15) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 7-15-2008)
CHAPTER 2: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
8-2-1   Definitions
   
8-2-2   Water connection requirements; service charges
   
8-2-3   Application for installation of water service
   
8-2-4   Rates and charges
   
8-2-5   Installation fee
   
8-2-6   Maintenance of service lines
   
8-2-7   Separate services
   
8-2-8   Water meters
   
8-2-9   Use of curb cock, service key
   
8-2-10   Inspection of water connection
   
8-2-11   Turning on water without authority; tampering with city property
   
8-2-12   City’s right to shut off water
   
8-2-13   Fire protection facilities; hydrants
   
8-2-14   Water line requirements
   
8-2-15   Conservation and waste of water
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks and water supplies generally, see 11 O.S. §§ 37-101 et seq.
§ 8-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJOINING or ADJACENT. Refers to a water line which is or has been laid,
placed or constructed on either side of a street right-of-way or within an
easement abutting a particular parcel or tract.
   CONNECTION. The tapping into a public water line, installation of a water
meter and the placement of a private service line between the meter and a
building or structure, in a manner approved by the Code Official, which will
permit the usage of the city water system.
   PRIVATE SERVICE LINE. The portion of the water supply system located on
private property, extending from the water meter to a building or structure.
   PUBLIC SERVICE LINE. The portion of the water line located on public
property, extending from the water main to the water meter.
   WATER LINE. All water mains, valves, hydrants and public service lines and
connections which are laid, placed or constructed in a public street, alley or
easement and form a part of the water system of the City.
(1994 Code, § 34-21) (Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 8-2-2 WATER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS; SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Except in areas zoned A Agriculture:
      (1)   All buildings or structures, construction of which commenced on or
after January 1, 1995; and
      (2)   A water line was available in any street, alley or easement
adjoining or adjacent to the premises upon which the building or structure was
located, at construction commencement, shall have all kitchen, culinary,
bathroom and drinking facilities connected to the city water system.
   (B)   Except in areas zoned A Agriculture:
      (1)   All buildings or structures, construction of which commenced before
January 1, 1995;
      (2)   A water line was available in any street, alley or easement
adjoining or adjacent to the premises upon which the building or structure is
located as of January 1, 1995;
      (3)   Such building or structure was not connected to the city water
system as of January 1, 1995, shall have the option of connecting all kitchen,
culinary, bathroom and drinking facilities to the city water system or electing
to become a water utility customer for fire protection services and, therefore,
be subject to the following minimum water charge:
         (a)   Single-family units: $16 per month;
         (b)   Single commercial units: $32 per month;
         (c)   Multi-family units: $16 minimum monthly charge per building,
plus $2 for each dwelling unit, as defined by the latest edition of the
International Building Code, within the building, up to a maximum of $60 for
each building;
         (d)   Manufactured or mobile home park: a minimum monthly charge of
$16 per park plus $2 for each licensed space, up to a maximum of $60 per month;
and
         (e)   Multiuser commercial units: $16 per month plus $2.75 for each
separate unit, up to a maximum monthly fee of $60. In order to qualify for this
election, such person or entity must execute a written agreement on or before
March 1, 1995, and must thereafter timely make the water charge payment to the
City. In the event the monthly water charge payment is not timely made, such
person or entity shall be required to connect to the water system as provided
by this title. This election is subject to transfer, assignment or devise.
   (C)   Except in areas zoned A Agriculture:
      (1)   Every building or structure, construction of which commenced prior
to a water line being available in any street, alley or easement adjoining or
adjacent to the premises upon which the building or structure is located; and
      (2)   A water line becomes available in any street, alley or easement
adjoining or adjacent to the premises upon which the building or structure is
located on or after January 1, 1994, shall have the option of connecting all
kitchen, culinary, bathroom and drinking facilities to the city water system or
electing to become a water utility customer for fire protection services and,
therefore, be subject to the minimum water charge of $16 per month. In order to
qualify for this option, such person or entity must execute a written agreement
within 60 days after the water service becomes available and must thereafter
timely make the water charge payment to the City. In the event the monthly
water charge payment is not timely made, such person or entity shall be
required to connect to the water system as provided by this title. This
election is subject to transfer, assignment or devise.
   (D)   All buildings or structures which are provided with municipal water
for kitchen, drinking, bathroom and culinary purposes on September 19, 1989,
shall continue to be so connected to municipal water at all times. Any person
who owns, rents or is in control of a building or structure, which building or
structure on September 19, 1989, or anytime thereafter, is connected with city
water, shall be deemed a customer of the utility system regardless of the water
usage or non-usage.
   (E)   This section shall not be construed to limit the City’s authority to
require connection for new development pursuant to the subdivision regulations
of the City.
   (F)   All water used for kitchen, culinary, bathroom and drinking facilities
from nonpublic water sources shall meet primary drinking water standards set
forth by the Oklahoma Department of Health and Environmental Protection Agency.
Should, at any time, the water quality violate these standards, the person
shall, within 30 days, bring the water into compliance with all primary
drinking water standards. If not corrected within that time period, the water
supply well(s) shall be disconnected by such person and the private
distribution system shall be immediately connected by such person to a
municipal water supply system.
   (G)   No person who owns, rents or is in control of a building or structure
which is required to be connected to municipal water shall fail to connect to
such municipal water.
   (H)   Upon application by a residential water utility customer, the City
shall place a public service line between the water line and the meter. This
subsection (H) shall only apply to customers whose property is adjoining or
adjacent to a city water line.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 2006-22, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 8-2-3 APPLICATION FOR INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   The owner of any premises desiring to have such premises connected to the
water system of the City shall make application therefor with the Customer
Service Department giving the description of the lot, block and addition
thereof, upon forms furnished for that purpose. The application shall be signed
by the owner, or his duly authorized agent.
(1994 Code, § 34-23) (Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 8-2-4 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARGING UNIT.
         (a)   Each occupied single-family dwelling;
         (b)   Each unit designed to be occupied and used by one or more
persons for living and cooking together in a multiple dwelling or apartment or
apartment hotel, where at least one of the living units is occupied;
         (c)   Each licensed lot for a mobile home or trailer coach in a mobile
home park or in a trailer court; or
         (d)   Each commercial establishment or premises other than those
listed in subsections (b) and (c) above.
   (B)   Rates. For water delivered through the meter to the consumer, there
shall be charged and collected the monthly rates provided for in §
2-6E-5.
(1994 Code, § 34-51) (Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 8-2-5 INSTALLATION FEE.
   Any person who desires to have a new service installed for the use of city
water shall, at the time of making application therefor, pay to the Director of
Finance the appropriate fee as provided in §
2-6E-4.
(1994 Code, § 34-24) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 8-2-6 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   All service lines between the water main and the meter shall be maintained
by the City where the meter is on public property. If the meter is on private
property, the consumer shall be liable for the maintenance of all service lines
from the meter to the property line. On all new installations, the meter shall
be set directly in front of the premises being served and in the street
easements.
(1994 Code, § 34-25) (Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 8-2-7 SEPARATE SERVICES.
   (A)   Multiple buildings; separate cutoffs. Where several houses, buildings
or premises are supplied with water by one service connection with the city
main, a separate cutoff shall be installed to control each meter, and at no
time shall one meter register through another. Water will not be furnished
until separate meters and cutoffs are provided.
   (B)   Individual service connections. Every separate premises supplied water
by the City shall have its own service connection with the city main, and no
premises so supplied will be allowed to supply water to any other premises.
(1994 Code, § 34-26) (Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
§ 8-2-8 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Meter required. No person shall make a connection to or use water from
any service until a meter has been set thereon.
   (B)   Ownership or replacement of meter. All meters installed by the City
shall be the property of the City and shall not be removed unless the use of
water on the premises is to be discontinued. In cases where meters or meter
boxes are lost, injured or broken by owner or occupant of the premises, it
shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of the owner or occupant. The cost
of the water meter shall not exceed the cost listed on the fee schedule located
in §
2-6E-4. The cost of replacement or repair may also include the actual cost of
parts, labor and connection to the water line, if applicable. In case of the
nonpayment of such fee, the water shall be shut off until paid. If a meter
fails to register properly, the utility services customer shall be charged on
an estimate made by the City based upon past consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 8-2-9 USE OF CURB COCK, SERVICE KEY.
   The City may permit owners or occupants of premises to have a service key
with which he may shut off the curb cock for the purpose of making repairs on
the premises. The curb cock, meter, radio devices and all other property of the
City shall be left in the same condition in which found. All damages incurred
shall be the responsibility of the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9) (Ord. 2009-25, passed 10-6-2009)
§ 8-2-10 INSPECTION OF WATER CONNECTION.
   Subject to constitutional limitations, any officer, inspector, meter reader
or authorized employee of the City shall have free access at reasonable hours
to any premises supplied with city water for the purpose of making an
inspection of the water connection upon said premises. If any authorized
employee is refused admittance to any premises or prevented from making such
inspection, the City may cause the water to be cut off therefrom forthwith.
(1994 Code, § 34-30) (Prior Code, § 8-2-10)
§ 8-2-11 TURNING ON WATER WITHOUT AUTHORITY; TAMPERING WITH CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Service initiation without authority. When water has been shut off
from any premises for any cause, no person other than an authorized official of
the Water Department shall again connect such premises for water service. If
water is turned on without such authority, the City shall then shut off the
water at the main or remove a portion of the service connection at the cock and
shall charge the utility services customer listed on the account, the owner of
the structure located at the account address or the current tenant at the
account address the actual cost of shutting off and reinstalling the connection
before the water is restored to the premises.
   (B)   Tampering with city property. If water service is reconnected by
anyone other than city personnel, the account associated shall be charged a fee
as outlined in §
2-6E-12. In addition to a fee, the utility services customer listed on the
account, the owner of the structure located at the account address or the
current tenant at the account address will be responsible for the cost of
repair or replacement of city property as described above and may be charged
with a crime in a criminal court.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 8-2-12 CITY’S RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER.
   The City reserves the right at any time, without notice, to shut off the
water supply for repair, extension or any other reason other than nonpayment of
bill, and shall not be responsible for any damage caused by the interruption of
water service.
(1994 Code, § 34-32) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 8-2-12)
Cross-reference:
   Notice requirement before turning off for nonpayment of bill, see §
8-1-7
§ 8-2-13 FIRE PROTECTION FACILITIES; HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Services for private fire protection. Services for fire protection
shall be fitted only with such fixtures as are needed for fire protection. Such
fixtures shall be entirely disconnected from those used for other purposes.
Whenever practical, the hose shall be kept attached to the fixtures, suspended
for use in case of fire.
   (B)   Interference with fire hydrants. No person except those duly
authorized by the City shall open, turn on, turn off, interfere with, attach
any pipe or hose to or connect anything with any fire hydrant, valve or in any
manner molest or interfere with the same, or obstruct the access to any fire
hydrant by placing around or adjacent thereto any stone, building material or
structure of any kind, or willfully or carelessly injure such hydrant in any
manner.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-13) (Ord. 2013-19, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 8-2-14 WATER LINE REQUIREMENTS.
   Water lines shall be laid in accordance with the standard specifications of
the City and be of sufficient size to provide both adequate water service and
fire protection. They shall also conform to the City’s current master plan for
water distribution system lines and their development. All water lines laid in
public streets, alleys, easements or other public places shall become the
property of the City, unless otherwise agreed upon by the City Manager.
(1994 Code, § 34-35) (Prior Code, § 8-2-14)
§ 8-2-15 CONSERVATION AND WASTE OF WATER.
   (A)   Preventing waste; maintaining lines and fixtures. All persons using
water from the water system shall exercise reasonable measures to prevent the
wanton or negligent waste thereof and prevent threats to the health, safety or
welfare of the public by maintaining all private water lines and pipe between
the outlet side of the water meter and all fixture openings in watertight and
nonleaking condition and in accordance with all city standards and
specifications.
   (B)   Cutoff valve. Such persons shall install and maintain an approved
cutoff valve in the private supply line for use in shutting off water during
the periods that repairs in any private water lines are necessary.
   (C)   Owner or occupant responsibility. All such repairs, and all
maintenance and the expense thereof, shall be the responsibility of the owner
or occupant of the premises affected.
   (D)   Failure to make repairs; termination of service. If any owner or
occupant fails or refuses to make, or cause to be made, such repairs as
necessary to stop a leaky condition, his failure or refusal shall be cause for
the temporary termination by the City of water services at the premises.
   (E)   Notice of termination of service. The City shall provide the owner or
occupant 24 hours’ notice prior to the termination of water service hereunder.
   (F)   Proof of making repairs. Should said necessary repairs be made by a
licensed plumber or should arrangements be made by and between the owner or
occupant and a licensed plumber for said necessary repairs to be made within a
time period acceptable to the Utility Billing Director, or his designated
representative, and should said necessary repairs or arrangements for repairs
be reasonably verifiable by the Utility Billing Director within said 24-hour
notice period, then service to said premises shall not be terminated hereunder.
However, should said necessary repairs not have been made pursuant to the
standards, specifications and requirements of the City, or should said repairs
not have been made within a reasonable time pursuant to said arrangements, then
said water service may be terminated without further notice.
   (G)   Conservation requirement. Upon direction by city staff to conserve
water during a drought or to prevent a water shortage, citizens must comply by
reducing their water consumption as described herein.
      (1)   Phase 1: Persons with residences or commercial buildings on the
even numbered sides of the street may only water their lawns on even numbered
days, and persons with residences or commercial buildings on the odd numbered
sides of the street may only water their lawns on odd numbered days.
      (2)   Phase 2: In addition to the restrictions in phase 1, no sprinkler
systems or sprinklers are allowed. Outside watering is restricted to handheld
watering only, no more than one hour per day. Commercial users may be contacted
to decrease consumption.
      (3)   Phase 3: In addition to the restrictions in phases 1 and 2, the
following emergency water conservation rates shall commence and shall continue
until the City Manager finds that the emergency is over:
Emergency water conservation residential rates:                               
   Rates for all residential customers (amount in gallons of water service 
      Minimum of 1,000 gallons                                         $10.46
      Price per 1,000 gallons over first 1,000 gallons to 6,999 gallons$2.98
      Price per 1,000 gallons over first 6,999 gallons to 10,999 gallon$4.63
      Price per 1,000 gallons thereafter                               $10.55
Emergency water conservation rate for irrigation meters:
   Commercial:
      Price per 1,000 gallons for 6,999 gallons or less                $2.98
      Price per 1,000 gallons over first 6,999 gallons to 33,999 gallon$4.63
      Price per 1,000 gallons over first 33,999 gallons                $10.55
   Irrigation meters on property without a household meter:
      Base rate for first 1,000 gallons                                $10.46
      Price per 1,000 gallons for 1,001 to 6,999 gallons               $2.98
      Price per 1,000 gallons over first 6,999 gallons to 10,999 gallon$4.63
      Price per 1,000 gallons over first 10,999 gallons                $10.55
   Residential irrigation meters (with meter on property where there is a
household meter):
      Price per 1,000 gallons for 6,999 gallons or less                $2.98
      Price per 1,000 gallons over first 6,999 gallons to 10,999 gallon$4.63
      Price per 1,000 gallons over first 10,999 gallons                $10.55
 
   (H)   Yearly increases. The emergency water conservation rates for
residential and commercial customers shall increase each year proportionately
to the increases in the regular rates in §
2-6E-5.
   (I)   Violation of emergency water conservation measures. No person shall
fail to comply with the City’s request to conserve water as described above.
Upon receiving information that a citizen has not complied, the City Attorney’s
Office may file a charge in Municipal Court for “violation of water
conservation ordinance”, the punishment of which may result in a fine up to
$100 plus costs, for each day the defendant violates this subsection (I).
(Prior Code, § 8-2-15) (Ord. 2014-35, passed 9-16-2014)
CHAPTER 3: SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
Article A: Wastewater Collection and Treatment
   
8-3A-1   Preamble
   
8-3A-2   Definitions
   
8-3A-3   Abbreviations
   
8-3A-4   Charges and fees
   
8-3A-5   Sewer connection required
   
8-3A-6   Discharge of sewage and polluted water to natural outlet
   
8-3A-7   Discharge of stormwater and ground water
   
8-3A-8   Discharge of certain waters or wastes to sanitary sewer
   
8-3A-9   Grease, oil and sand traps and interceptors
   
8-3A-10   Control manholes and meters
   
8-3A-11   Accidental discharges, slug load or upset
   
8-3A-12   Trucked or hauled wastewater
   
8-3A-13   Specific local limits
   
8-3A-14   State requirements; city right to revise
   
8-3A-15   Pretreatment standards adopted solely by city; hearing
   
8-3A-16   Excessive discharge
   
8-3A-17   Maintenance of pretreatment facilities
   
8-3A-18   Monitoring facilities
Article B: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
8-3B-1   Compliance with regulations
   
8-3B-2   Interpretations
   
8-3B-3   Connection allowed when public sewer not available
   
8-3B-4   Construction permit
   
8-3B-5   Compliance with state recommendations; restrictions
   
8-3B-6   Connection to public sanitary sewer when available
   
8-3B-7   Maintenance of private facilities
Article C: Building Sewers and Connections
   
8-3C-1   Permit requirements
   
8-3C-2   Costs borne by owner
   
8-3C-3   Separate building sewers required
   
8-3C-4   Use of old building sewers
   
8-3C-5   Building sewers below basement floors
   
8-3C-6   Surface runoff or ground water restricted
   
8-3C-7   Compliance with codes, other regulations
   
8-3C-8   Connection to public sewer; city supervision
   
8-3C-9   Excavations
Article D: Private Sector Inflow and Infiltration
   
8-3D-1   Definitions
   
8-3D-2   Prohibited connections
   
8-3D-3   Disconnect order
   
8-3D-4   Abatement of nuisance
   
8-3D-5   Access and entry
   
8-3D-6   Financial assistance
   
8-3D-7   Procedure for disconnection
   
8-3D-8   Termination of financial assistance
   
8-3D-9   Disclaimer of liability
Article E: Categorical Users
   
8-3E-1   Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
8-3E-2   Notice of new federal standards; appeal procedure
   
8-3E-3   Modification of standards
   
8-3E-4   Compliance date report
   
8-3E-5   Periodic compliance reports
   
8-3E-6   Sampling from categorical industrial users
   
8-3E-7   Pretreatment
   
8-3E-8   Net/gross calculations
   
8-3E-9   Combined wastestream formula
Article F: Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
8-3F-1   Wastewater survey
   
8-3F-2   New sources
   
8-3F-3   Permit requirements
   
8-3F-4   Evaluation; permit duration and conditions
   
8-3F-5   Reports and information; notice requirements
Article G: Reporting Requirements
   
8-3G-1   Periodic compliance reports
   
8-3G-2   Analysis of wastewater
   
8-3G-3   Self-monitoring versus city monitoring
   
8-3G-4   Retention of records
   
8-3G-5   Confidential information
   
8-3G-6   Industrial users in significant noncompliance
Article H: Compliance Monitoring; Enforcement and Penalties
   
8-3H-1   Environmental Enforcement Board
   
8-3H-2   Inspection and sampling; search warrants
   
8-3H-3   Noncompliance; notice of violation
   
8-3H-4   Affirmative defenses
   
8-3H-5   Remedies by users; city action upon noncompliance
   
8-3H-6   Appeals from orders of city; hearing procedure
   
8-3H-7   Performance bond to guarantee compliance
   
8-3H-8   Legal actions
   
8-3H-9   Criminal actions and penalties
Statutory reference:
   Sewage disposal systems authorized, see 11 O.S. §§ 37-201 et seq.
ARTICLE A: WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT
§ 8-3A-1 PREAMBLE.
   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the wastewater
collection and publicly owned treatment works (POTW) for the City and enables
the City to comply with all applicable state and federal laws including the
Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. § 403). The objectives of this article are:
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
   (C)   To ensure that the quality of the wastewater treatment plant sludge is
maintained at a level which allows its use and disposal in compliance with
applicable statutes and regulations;
   (D)   To protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and sludge
in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
   (E)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the POTW;
   (F)   To enable the City to comply with its NPDES permit conditions, sludge
use and disposal requirements and any other federal or state laws to which the
POTW is subject; and
   (G)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the POTW.
(1994 Code, § 34-61) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-1)
§ 8-3A-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms and
words not specifically defined but used herein shall have their usual and
ordinary meanings unless otherwise specifically defined in ordinances of the
City.
   ACCESS. Entry into or upon any real estate or structure, including any part
thereof.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized representative
of an industrial user may be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of Vice
President, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; and
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   BOD5 (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidations of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the public sewer.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of any
industrial user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
pretreatment standards.
   CITY. The administrative head of the City, and/or his delegated
representative, or the City Council.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The “approval authority”, defined hereinabove; or the
director if the City has an approved pretreatment program under the provisions
of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING SERVICES. The City Engineer, or his duly authorized
representative.
   ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE SPECIALIST. The City’s environmental compliance
specialist or his duly authorized representative designated by the City Manager
to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT BOARD. The five-member board that hears appeals
from the decisions made at administrative hearings.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the administrator or other duly authorized official.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment
standards which will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter
promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
   FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. A
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies
to a specific category of industrial users. This term includes prohibited
discharge limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one
time basis with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and collected over a
period of time, not to exceed 15 minutes in duration.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under §§ 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INFILTRATION. “Water”, as herein defined, entering the sanitary sewer
system, including private sewer service connections, from the ground, through
such means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections,
perimeter drains or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include, and is
distinguished from, “inflow”.
   INFILTRATION/ INFLOW. A combination of infiltration and inflow waters
entering the sanitary sewer lines, with no way of distinguishing the basic
source, and which tends to cause an overloading of the capacities of the
sanitary sewer system.
   INFLOW. Water discharged into the sanitary sewer system, including service
connection from means such as, but not limited to, roof downspout or leaders,
cellar, yard, driveway and area drains, sump pumps, open foundations and/or
perimeter drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-
connections from storm sewers, surface runoff, street wastewater or drainage.
INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from, “infiltration”.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
(or loading) of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected independent of
the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW treatment processes or operations or
its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore, contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
City’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the
Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345); or any criteria, guidelines or regulations
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including title II
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), see
42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; or more stringent state criteria contained in any
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D, of the SWDA, see 42
U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the
Toxic Substance Control Act, see 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine
Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, see 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33
U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
byproducts, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, fomites, etiologic agents,
contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory
wastes and dialysis wastes.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD, PRETREATMENT STANDARD or STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act, see 33 U.S.C. §§ 1317(b) and (c),
which applies to industrial users. This term includes prohibitive discharge
limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any source from which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants,
the construction of which is commenced after the publication of proposed
pretreatment standards of the act which will be applicable to such source, if
such standard is thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section;
provided that:
         (a)   Construction is at a site where no other source is located;
         (b)   Process or production equipment causing discharge is totally
replaced due to construction; or
         (c)   The production of the wastestream of the facility is
substantially independent of existing sources at the same site.
      (2)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE has commenced, if the owner or
operator has:
         (a)   Begun installation/assembly of facilities or equipment;
         (b)   Begun significant site preparation for installation/assembly; or
         (c)   Entered into binding constructural obligation for the purchase
of facility equipment which is intended to be used in the operation within a
reasonable time.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product and to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   NOTICE. If the structure and/or real property to be inspected is occupied,
the representative shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If
the structure and/or real property is unoccupied, he shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person(s) having charge or
control of the structure and/or real property and request entry
   OKLAHOMA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY (ODEQ). The approval authority
agency for the state.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution and measured in standard
units (su).
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. This portion of the POTW which is designed to provide
treatment (including recycling and reclamation) of municipal sewage and
industrial waste.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into the waters of the U.S.
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents,
heirs, successors or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state or
local governmental entities.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredge spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The manmade or man induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological and radiological integrity of water.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration may be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes or by
other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d). Appropriate
PRETREATMENT technology includes control equipment, such as equalization tanks
or facilities, for protection against surges or slug loadings that might
interfere with or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW. However, where
wastewater from a regulated process is mixed in an equalization facility with
unregulated wastewater or with wastewater from another regulated process, the
effluent from the equalization facility must meet an adjusted PRETREATMENT
limit calculated in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled, operated and maintained by the City; the same being
an integral part of the POTW.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES DIRECTOR. The public utilities director or his duly
authorized representative who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by the provisions of this article.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act, see 33 U.S.C. § 1292, which is owned by a state or municipality (as
defined by § 502(4) of the Act, see 33 U.S.C. § 1362).This definition includes
any devices and systems used in the collection, pumping, storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid
nature. It also includes sewers, pipe and other conveyances only if they convey
wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The term also means the “municipality”,
as defined in § 502(4) of the Act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect
discharges to and the discharges from such a TREATMENT WORKS.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The liquid waste which may or may not contain solids,
originating in the sanitary conveniences for personnel of a dwelling, business
building, factory, industrial facility, institution or other place.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer, which carries wastewater and to which storm,
surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEARCH WARRANTS. If, after proper request, entry or access is refused, or
otherwise permission to inspect the property is not granted, the representative
shall make application to a court of competent jurisdiction for a search
warrant to permit such inspection.
   SERVICE LINE or HOUSE SERVICE LINE. The portion of a sewer, located on the
premises of the user, extending from the building drain to the public sewer,
and the operation and maintenance of such portion of the sewer shall be the
responsibility of the user; further, the terms SERVICE LINE or HOUSE SERVICE
LINE shall be synonymous with the term “building sewer” hereinabove set forth.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes the facilities to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater or stormwater.
   SHALL/MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Any industrial user of the City’s
wastewater disposal system who:
      (1)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R. §
403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
      (2)   Any other noncategorical industrial user that:
         (a)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day of process wastewater (“process wastewater” excludes sanitary, noncontact
cooling and boiler blowdown wastewaters);
         (b)   Has a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of the
average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD5, TSS and the like) capacity of
the POTW treatment plant;
         (c)   The wastewater toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to § 307 of
the Act or state statutes or rules; or
         (d)   Is found by the City, the state or the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) to have a reasonable potential for adversely affecting
the POTW treatment plant (inhibition, pass through of pollutants, sludge
contamination, endangerment of POTW workers or air emissions generated by the
system), or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a nonroutine episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a noncustomary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer pipe or manmade watercourse, which
carries stormwater and surface water and drainage, but excludes wastewater.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting therefrom, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent or supervisor of the water pollution
control plant, or the individual designated by the City Manager to fill the
position or assume the duties of the superintendent or supervisor of the water
pollution control plant who is charged by the City Manager to implement the
provisions of the NPDES permit.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Matter that either floats on the surface of, or is
suspended in, water, wastewater, sewage or other liquids, and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of CWA § 307(a), see 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), or other
acts.
   TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT. Any discharge from the POTW into waters of the
state.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the industrial user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance or careless or improper operations.
   USE or USER OF THE SANITARY SEWER. Any person who contributes, causes or
permits the contribution of wastewater into the City’s POTW; and further the
terms USER or USER OF THE SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM shall also mean any person
receiving city water service and who has a connection with the City’s sewage
system, or, in the case where a private water supply is used, the proprietor of
the location having the sewer connection.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any ground water, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW for treatment and disposal. SEWAGE may include chemicals,
household waste, laundry waste, human excrement, animal or vegetable matter in
suspension or solution and other solids in suspension or solution.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(1994 Code, § 34-61.1) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-2)
§ 8-3A-3 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   (A)   BOD5: biochemical oxygen demand;
   (B)   C.F.R.: Code of Federal Regulations;
   (C)   COD: chemical oxygen demand;
   (D)   EPA: Environmental Protection Agency;
   (E)    l: liter;
   (F)   mg: milligrams;
   (G)   mg/l: milligrams per liter;
   (H)   NPDES: National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System;
   (I)   POTW: publicly owned treatment works;
   (J)   SIC: standard industrial classification;
   (K)   SWDA: Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.;
   (L)   TSS: total suspended solids; and
   (M)   U.S.C.: United States Code.
(1994 Code, § 34-62) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-3)
§ 8-3A-4 CHARGES AND FEES.
   After the effective date of this code, the City Council, for the purpose of
defraying cost of implementing and operating the City’s pretreatment program,
shall have the power and authority, by the adoption of a duly enacted
ordinance, to require the payment of the following:
   (A)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the City’s
pretreatment program;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
   (D)   Fees for consistent removal by the City of pollutants otherwise
subject to federal pretreatment standards;
   (E)   Fees for surcharges; and
   (F)   Any other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
(1994 Code, § 34-63) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-4)
Cross-reference:
   Inspection fee, see §
2-6E-11
§ 8-3A-5 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirement. Except in areas zoned A Agriculture, all buildings and
structures, which are constructed or to which additions other than porches or
garages are made after January 25, 1973, shall have all water closets and
sewage disposal facilities connected to the city sanitary sewer where the
building is located on a lot, parcel or tract of land abutting or adjacent to
any street, alley, easement or right-of-way in which there is located a public
sanitary sewer of the City. Connection shall be required at the time of
issuance of any building permit and before issuance of a certificate of
occupancy. It is the declared intent of the City Council that required
connection to the city sanitary sewer system promotes the health, safety and
welfare of the community.
   (B)   Deposits of garbage, objectionable wastes. No person shall place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (C)   Toilet facilities; time limit to connect to sewer. The owner of all
houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting on any
street, alley, easement or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the City, at his expense shall
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of
this article, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so;
provided that such public sewer is located in any street, easement, alley or
right-of-way adjoining, abutting or adjacent to the premises upon which the
building or structure is located, at the time of notice.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section shall not be construed to limit the City’s
authority to require extensions and connections for new development pursuant to
subdivisions of land or subdivision regulations of the City.
   (E)   Compliance required. No person who owns, rents or is in control of a
building or structure, which is required to be connected to a sanitary sewer,
shall fail to connect to such sanitary sewer.
(1994 Code, § 34-65) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-5)
§ 8-3A-6 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE AND POLLUTED WATER TO NATURAL OUTLET.
   No person shall discharge to any natural outlet, or waters of the state
within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any
wastewater except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
the provisions of this article.
(1994 Code, § 34-66) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-6)
§ 8-3A-7 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND GROUND WATER.
   (A)   Discharge to sanitary sewer prohibited. No person shall discharge, or
cause to be discharged, any stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Discharge to storm sewers. Stormwater and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as
storm sewers, or to a natural outlet. Noncontact cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged, on approval of the state, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
(1994 Code, § 34-64) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-7)
§ 8-3A-8 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WATERS OR WASTES TO SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute, or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater
which will interfere with the operation or performance of or pass through the
POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of the POTW whether or
not the user is subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements. Furthermore,
no user may contribute the following substances to the POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or in interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. Pollutants which cause a fire or
explosion hazard to the POTW, including, but not limited to, wastestreams with
a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. At no time shall two successive readings on an
explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any
point in the system) be more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading over
ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to: gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides and any
other substances which the City, the state or EPA has notified the user is a
fire hazard or a hazard to the system or as determined by the Public Utilities
Director;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of or pass through the
wastewater treatment facilities such as, but not limited to: grease; garbage
with particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension; animal guts or
tissues; paunch manure; bones; hair; hides or fleshings; entrails; whole blood;
feathers; ashes; cinders; sand; spent lime; stone or marble dust; metal; glass;
straw; shavings; grass clippings; rags; spent grains; spent hops; waste paper;
wood; plastic; gas; tar; asphalt residues; residues from refining, or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting
oil or products of mineral oil origins; mud or glass grindings; or polishing
wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.5, or having a pH greater
than 11.0, or wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and/or personnel of the POTW;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW or to exceed
the limitations set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, see 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);
      (5)   Any noxious, or malodorous or toxic liquids, gases, vapors, fumes
or solids which either singly or by interaction with other wastes are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient
enough that may cause acute worker health and safety problems at the POTW or
may prevent entry into the sewer system for maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause
the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, see 33 U.S.C. §
1345: any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., the Clean Air Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substance
Control Act, see 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used;
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit
or the state water quality standards;
      (8)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference; but in no case
shall wastewater effluent be discharged from any users into the sewer system at
temperatures which exceed 150°F (65°C) or in no case shall heat be discharged
from any user in such quantities that the influent temperature at the City’s
POTW will exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD5 and
the like) released in a discharge rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference to the POTW;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
environmental compliance specialist in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulation;
      (12)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance; and
      (13)   Any trucked or hauled waste unless authorized pursuant to §
8-3A-12.
   (B)   Rulings of environmental compliance specialist. When the environmental
compliance specialist determines that a user is contributing to the POTW, any
of the above enumerated substances in such amounts as to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, the environmental compliance specialist shall:
      (1)   Advise the user of the impact of the contribution of the POTW;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the sanitary sewer;
      (3)   Develop effluent limitations for such user to correct the
interference with the POTW;
      (4)   Reject the waste; or
      (5)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
   (C)   Pretreatment plans and equipment. If the City permits the pretreatment
or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the City, and subject
to the requirements of all applicable rules, ordinances and laws.
   (D)   City right to establish stringent limitations. The City reserves the
right to establish by ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on
discharges to the POTW system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
of suitable treatment as defined in §
8-3A-6 .
(1994 Code, § 34-67) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-8)
§ 8-3A-9 GREASE, OIL AND SAND TRAPS AND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the City, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the City, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. The frequency of cleaning required will be dependent
upon loading, capacity of interceptors and flow obstruction problems
experienced at each facility historically. Therefore, the City shall have the
authority to establish a minimum grease interceptor cleaning frequency as
needed for each user. Materials removed from these interceptors shall be
disposed of at designated approved locations.
   (A)   Traps and interceptors required. Traps and interceptors for oil,
grease, sand and other substances harmful to the building drainage system, the
public sewer or sewage treatment plant or processes shall be provided as
required in this section. Where food waste grinders connect to grease
interceptors, the grease interceptor shall be sized and rated for the discharge
of the food waste grinder.
   (B)   Traps not required. A trap shall not be required for individual
dwelling units or any private living quarters.
   (C)   Size, type and location approved. The size, type and location of each
trap or interceptor shall be of a type and capacity as defined in the current
International Plumbing Code and shall be approved by the City. All interceptors
shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Such interceptors shall be properly inspected following
construction by the City and shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense,
in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (D)   Grease traps. Grease traps shall conform to the Plumbing and Drainage
Institute (PDI) G101 requirements and shall be installed in accordance with
manufacturer’s instructions. Refer to the 2000 International Plumbing Code;
table 1003.3.4.1 “Capacity of Grease Traps”.
   (E)   Grease interceptors. A grease interceptor shall be installed in the
waste line leading from sinks, drains or other fixtures in the following
establishments: restaurants; hotel kitchens; hospitals; school kitchens;
factory kitchens; clubs; cafeterias; drive-ins; food processing establishments;
and in any bar, lounge, private club or fountain where food in prepared or
served; or where dishes, glasses, pots, pans or other kitchen wares are washed;
or any other establishment where grease can be introduced into the drainage
system in quantities that can effect line stoppage or hinder sewage disposal.
The environmental compliance specialist shall have the authority to require
installation of a trap or interceptor in any establishment when, in his
opinion, one is required based on evidence that the establishment is
contributing grease into the City’s sewer mains in quantities that could affect
line stoppage or hinder sewage disposal.
   (F)   Oil separators. An oil separator shall be installed in the drainage
system of any establishment where, in the judgment of the environmental
compliance specialist, oils and other flammables can be introduced or admitted
into the public sewer by accident or otherwise.
   (G)   Separators required. At repair garages; gasoline stations with grease
racks, grease pits or work racks; and at factories where oily liquid wastes are
produced, separators shall be installed into which all oil bearing or grease
bearing wastes shall be discharged before emptying in the building drainage
system or other point of disposal.
   (H)   Separation of liquids. A mixture of treated or untreated light and
heavy liquids with various specific gravities shall be separated in an approved
receptacle.
   (I)   Garages and service stations. Where automobiles are serviced, greased,
repaired or washed or where gasoline is dispensed, separators shall be
required. Parking garages in which servicing, repairing or washing is not
conducted, and in which gasoline is not dispensed, shall not require a
separator. Areas of commercial garages utilized only for storage of automobiles
are not required to be drained through a separator.
   (J)   Sand interceptors in commercial establishments. Sand and similar
interceptors for heavy solids shall be designed and located so as to be
provided with ready access for cleaning.
   (K)   Laundries. Commercial laundries shall be equipped with an interceptor
with a wire basket or similar device, removable for cleaning that prevents
passage into the drainage system of solids one-half inch (12.7 millimeters) or
larger in size, string, rags, buttons or other materials detrimental to the
public sewerage system.
   (L)   Bottling establishments. Bottling plants shall discharge process
wastes into an interceptor that will provide for the separation of broken glass
or other solids before discharging into the drainage system.
   (M)   Slaughterhouses. Slaughtering room and dressing room drains shall be
equipped with approved separators. The separator shall prevent the discharge
into the drainage system of feathers, entrails and other materials that cause
clogging.
   (N)   Right of entry. The City and its agents shall have the right of entry,
during usual business hours, to conduct a random inspection of traps,
interceptor or separator.
   (O)   Grease traps for businesses, approval. Any grease traps or
interceptors for new or remodeled businesses shall be approved by the Code
Administration Department and the environmental compliance specialist prior to
construction.
   (P)   Violation suspected; notice; hearing.
      (1)   When the City determines that there may be potential violation, a
site visit will be conducted. Any user found to be in violation of this section
should be served by the City with written notice stating the violation and
providing five days to respond to the violation. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   After the violator’s response has been received, a follow up site
visit will be conducted to determine if the violation has been corrected.
      (3)   If the user fails to respond to the violation letter, an
administrative hearing will be held and the user will be subject to
administrative penalties at that time.
      (4)   In the event an establishment is cited with a second violation
within six months of the first, an administrative hearing will be held and the
user will be subject to administrative penalties at that time.
      (5)   A third citation within six months from the first violation will
cause the City to immediately discontinue water service to the establishment
for a period of not less than ten days, during which time the offender shall
correct the violation.
   (Q)   Civil or criminal litigation. Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in subsection (P) above shall be
subject to specified civil or criminal litigation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1994 Code, § 34-74.1) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-9)
§ 8-3A-10 CONTROL MANHOLES AND METERS.
   When required by the City, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying wastewater shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building to
facilitate observation, sampling and flow measurement. Such manholes, when
required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the City. The manhole shall be installed by
the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(1994 Code, § 34-74.2) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-10)
§ 8-3A-11 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES, SLUG LOAD OR UPSET.
   (A)   Procedure for providing protection. Each user shall provide protection
from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated
by this article. Procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental
discharges include: inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transferring of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant
site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment,
measures for containing toxic organic solvents and/or measures and equipment
for emergency response.
      (1)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense.
      (2)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide this protection shall be submitted to the City for review, and shall be
approved by the City before construction of the facility.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or
suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
      (4)   No user who contributes to the POTW shall be permitted to introduce
pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures have been
approved by the City. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to
modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
article.
   (B)   Notify POTW of incident; reports. In the case of an accidental
discharge or slug load or upset, it is the responsibility of the user to
immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident including any
discharge that violates a prohibited substance of the permit. The notification
shall include location of the discharge, date and time thereof, the time within
which compliance is expected to reoccur, type of pollutant, concentration and
volume and corrective actions to reduce, eliminate or prevent reoccurrence
within 24 hours of being aware of the upset.
      (1)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the environmental compliance specialist a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this article or other
applicable law.
      (2)   The City shall evaluate, at least once every two years, whether
each significant industrial user (SIU) needs a plan to control slug discharges.
The evaluations will be documented in the SIU’s file. If the City decides that
a slug control plan is needed, the plan shall contain, at a minimum, the
following elements:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental
or slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which
would violate any of the prohibited discharges in §
8-3A-8; and
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants (including solvents) and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(1994 Code, § 34-75) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-11)
§ 8-3A-12 TRUCKED OR HAULED WASTEWATER.
   Trucked or hauled waste, including septic tank and industrial septage are
not accepted unless the public utilities director determines that the waste
does not violate any requirements established or adopted by the City (e.g.,
local limits, and the like).
(1994 Code, § 34-68) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-12)
§ 8-3A-13 SPECIFIC LOCAL LIMITS.
   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference at the POTW. In addition to all the aforementioned
limitations contained in this article, all indirect discharges to the POTW
shall not exceed the following limits at any time. These limits, unlike
categorical limits, which apply at the end of the process stream, apply at the
discharge point to the sewer. The limits represent total concentrations for all
applicable pollutants:
   (A)   0.28 mg/l (T) arsenic (AS);
   (B)   0.13 mg/l (T) cadmium (CD);
   (C)   3.10 mg/l (T) chromium (CR);
   (D)   0.93 mg/l (T) copper (CU);
   (E)   0.62 mg/l (T) lead (PB);
   (F)   2.04 mg/l (T) nickel (NI);
   (G)   1.25 mg/l (T) silver (AG);
   (H)   1.19 mg/l (T) zinc (ZN);
   (I)   0.02 mg/l (T) mercury (HG);
   (J)   0.14 mg/l (T) cyanide (CN);
   (K)   60.1 mg/l (T) phenols and phenolic compounds 200 mg/l (T) oil and
grease (O&G);
   (L)   5.5-11.0 pH;
   (M)   150°F temperature; and
   (N)   (T) = total
(1994 Code, § 34-69) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-13)
§ 8-3A-14 STATE REQUIREMENTS; CITY RIGHT TO REVISE.
   (A)   Application of state requirements. State requirements and limitations
on discharges shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than
federal requirements and limitations or those in this article.
   (B)   City right to increase restrictions. The City reserves the right to
increase the restrictions on compounds covered by the Federal Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, see 33 U.S.C. § 1317, and to adopt more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater system, if the same
are deemed necessary to comply with the objectives of suitable treatment as
defined and set forth in this article.
(1994 Code, § 34-70) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-14)
§ 8-3A-15 PRETREATMENT STANDARDS ADOPTED SOLELY BY CITY; HEARING.
   The City is hereby granted the authority to establish pretreatment and
effluent discharge standards on its own initiative. In the event new discharge
standards, solely initiated and adopted by the City, or revisions to existing
city standards are considered, a public hearing shall be held before the City
Council prior to the adoption thereof. Notice of such hearing shall be
published at least 15 days prior to the hearing, in a legal publication of
general circulation within the City. In addition, all known users and other
interested parties affected by the proposed standards shall be mailed written
notice of the public hearing. Comments and suggestions received at the public
hearing shall be considered during the preparation of the City’s final effluent
discharge standards.
(1994 Code, § 34-71) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-15)
§ 8-3A-16 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE.
   No user shall attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the local limits
or Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards, see 33 U.S.C. § 1317.
(1994 Code, § 34-72) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-16)
§ 8-3A-17 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Owner responsibility. Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities
are provided for any wastewater, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   (B)   Bypass of treatment facilities.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited unless it is unavoidable to prevent loss of
life, personal injury or severe property damage or no feasible alternatives
exist.
      (2)   The user may allow a bypass to occur which does not cause effluent
limitations to be exceeded, but only if it is also for essential maintenance to
ensure efficient operation.
      (3)   Notification of bypass:
         (a)   Anticipated bypass. If the user knows in advance of the need for
a bypass, it shall submit prior written notice, if possible, at least ten days
before the date of the bypass, to the City.
         (b)   Unanticipated bypass. The user shall submit oral notice to the
City within 24 hours and submit a written notice within five days. This report
shall specify:
            1.   A description of the bypass and its cause, including its
duration, exact time and date;
            2.   Whether the bypass has been corrected; and if the bypass is
not corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
            3.   The steps being taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and
prevent a recurrence of the bypass.
(1994 Code, § 34-73) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-17)
§ 8-3A-18 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement of facilities. The City shall require to be provided and
operated, at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling and flow measurements of the building sewer and/or internal drainage
system. The monitoring facility should normally be situated in the user’s
premises, but the City may, when such a location would be impractical or cause
undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public
street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles. The user shall be responsible for relocation of
the facility, if necessary, for street improvements or public utility
construction, maintenance or repairs. The monitoring facility designed by the
industrial user as the proper sampling site for regulated categorical or
industrial processes will be approved by the City prior to the use of such
facility.
   (B)   Sampling manhole. There shall be ample room in or near such sampling
manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis. The facility sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at
all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Compliance with city standards. Whether constructed on public or
private property, the sampling and monitoring facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the City’s requirements and all applicable local construction
standards and specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days
following written notification by the City.
   (D)   Excessive pollutants detected. In the event an excessive or shock load
of pollutants are detected anywhere in the POTW or received at the POTW
treatment plant, the City may require demand monitoring procedures in order to
discover the source of such discharge into the POTW. DEMAND MONITORING means
the use of all necessary measures and equipment for the purpose of determining
the users who have created, or contributed to, the harmful discharge of problem
pollutants. When the user or users have been identified, the City shall have
the authority to assess the cost of demand monitoring against the offending
user.
(1994 Code, § 34-74) (Prior Code, § 8-3A-18)
ARTICLE B: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 8-3B-1 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   Except as provided in this article, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of wastewater.
(1994 Code, § 34-76) (Prior Code, § 8-3B-1)
§ 8-3B-2 INTERPRETATIONS.
   No provisions of this article shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1994 Code, § 34-82) (Prior Code, § 8-3B-2)
§ 8-3B-3 CONNECTION ALLOWED WHEN PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
8-3A-5(C), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of the article.
(1994 Code, § 34-77) (Prior Code, § 8-3B-3)
§ 8-3B-4 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required; application. Before commencement of construction of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
from the Code Official. The application for such a permit shall be made on a
form furnished by the Code Official, which the applicant shall supplement with
any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Code Official.
   (B)   Completion of installation; inspection. A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Code Official. The Code Official shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Code Official when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice given by the Code
Official.
(1994 Code, § 34-78) (Prior Code, § 8-3B-4)
§ 8-3B-5 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RECOMMENDATIONS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Compliance. The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department
of Public Health of the state.
   (B)   Lot area. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 22,000 square feet.
   (C)   Discharging to certain places prohibited. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet, or waters of the state
or sanitary sewer.
(1994 Code, § 34-79) (Prior Code, § 8-3B-5)
§ 8-3B-6 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER WHEN AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Connection to public sewer. At such time as a public sanitary sewer
becomes available to a property by a private sewage disposal system, as
provided in §
8-3A-5 , a direct connection shall be made to the public sanitary sewer in
compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (B)   Time limit for connection; filling private system. When a public
sanitary sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to said
sewer within 90 days, and the private disposal system shall be cleaned of
sludge and filled with clean gravel or dirt.
(1994 Code, § 34-80) (Prior Code, § 8-3B-6)
§ 8-3B-7 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE FACILITIES.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the City.
(1994 Code, § 34-81) (Prior Code, § 8-3B-7)
ARTICLE C: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 8-3C-1 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required; classification. No unauthorized person shall uncover,
make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public
sanitary sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit
from the City.
   (B)   Classes of permits; application.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For service to categorical and significant industrial users
(SIUs); and
         (b)   Any other user.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the City. For any service to categorical or SIUs, the
permit application shall be submitted to the environmental compliance
specialist for review. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the City.
(1994 Code, § 34-88) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-1)
§ 8-3C-2 COSTS BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City
for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(1994 Code, § 34-89) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-2)
§ 8-3C-3 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided to every
building; except where one building stands in the rear of another on an
interior lot and no public sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(1994 Code, § 34-90) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-3)
§ 8-3C-4 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the authorized city employees, to
meet all requirements of this article.
(1994 Code, § 34-91) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-4)
§ 8-3C-5 BUILDING SEWERS BELOW BASEMENT FLOORS.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sanitary sewer,
wastewater carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means
and discharged to the building sewer.
(1994 Code, § 34-92) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-5)
§ 8-3C-6 SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUND WATER RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspout, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, drains from commercial and industrial truck washes or
commercial and industrial wash racks or other sources of surface runoff or
ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1994 Code, § 34-93) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-6)
§ 8-3C-7 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES, OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Size; alignment; materials. The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of a building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City. In the absence of code provisions
or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WEF Manual of Practice no. 9 shall
apply.
   (B)   Connection. The connection of the building sewer into the public
sanitary sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WEF Manual of
Practice no. 9. All such connections shall be made gaslight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Code Official before installation.
(1994 Code, § 34-94) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-7)
§ 8-3C-8 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER; CITY SUPERVISION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Code Official
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sanitary sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Code
Official, or his representative.
(1994 Code, § 34-95) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-8)
§ 8-3C-9 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
(1994 Code, § 34-96) (Prior Code, § 8-3C-9)
ARTICLE D: PRIVATE SECTOR INFLOW AND INFILTRATION
§ 8-3D-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
definitions set forth in this section shall be applicable to this article and
shall not supersede, amend or alter other codes or enactments of the City.
   ACCESSIBLE. Capable of being reached without excavation.
   ADMINISTRATION. The City of Enid Code Administration Division hereby
designated as the department responsible for administering the provisions of
this article.
   LESSEE. Any person, firm or corporation having the responsibility, pursuant
to a written agreement with the owner, to maintain, repair or replace sanitary
sewer lines and/or discharges which cause inflow and/or infiltration.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.1) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-1)
§ 8-3D-2 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall henceforth permit, make or allow any source of surface,
storm or ground water to inflow and/or infiltrate into any structure or drain
which is connected, either directly or indirectly, to the POTW, without regard
to whether such connection was permitted to be made under any prior ordinance,
rule regulation or standard. Interior or exterior perimeter building foundation
drains connected directly into a sanitary sewer may be exempt from the
provisions of this article if the connect point is not accessible, as
determined by the Code Official or Public Utilities Director.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.2) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-2)
§ 8-3D-3 DISCONNECT ORDER.
   The administration shall issue an order directing the owner or lessee of any
real property and/or structure who is in violation of §
8-3D-2 to disconnect all structures or drains which discharge infiltration and/
or inflow waters to a sanitary sewer. The order shall provide that such
disconnection shall be accomplished within three months after issuance of an
order. Within 30 days after receipt of the order, such owner or the lessee may
request a hearing before the Code Official and/or Public Utilities Director (or
designee) to review such order by filing a written request with the
administration. The filing of such request shall act as a stay of the order.
After such hearing, the Code Official and/or Public Utilities Director (or
designee) may affirm, set aside or modify such order; provided, however, the
Code Official and/or Public Utilities Director (or designee) shall have no
authority to set aside or modify the order unless findings are made that no
infiltration or inflow exists on such property.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.3) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-3)
§ 8-3D-4 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   In addition to criminal prosecution for a violation of this article, the
City Attorney may prosecute a civil action in the name of the City for
injunction or other relief seeking to abate and permanently enjoin the
continuation of the discharge of infiltration and/or inflow waters into a
sanitary sewer.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.4) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-4)
§ 8-3D-5 ACCESS AND ENTRY.
   Employees, agents or independent contractors (hereinafter “representative
[s]”) of the administration shall have the right to make an inspection of any
real property and/or structure for the purpose of determining compliance with
this article. Inspections shall be done at a reasonable hour of the day and may
include smoke or dyewater testing of suspect sources, as well as television
inspections of the sanitary sewer.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.5) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-5)
§ 8-3D-6 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   Reimbursement for actual cost. Financial assistance in the form of
reimbursement for the actual costs of eliminating private inflow and
infiltration waters shall be provided to persons who receive and promptly
comply with the disconnect order issued pursuant to §
8-3D-3 . The reimbursement shall be in the amount and subject to the terms and
conditions set out in §
8-3D-7 .
   (B)   Community development block grant program. In addition, further
assistance may be provided to those persons who cannot comply with the
financial terms and conditions set out in §
8-3D-7 . Qualified persons who reside in targeted neighborhoods within the City
may qualify for one hundred percent (100%) of their actual costs to be paid by
the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. Persons who cannot
qualify for CDBG assistance, nor comply with the financial terms and conditions
set out in §
8-3D-7 , and who agree in writing to reimburse the City, shall be given up to
12 months to reimburse the City for their fifty percent (50%) share.
   (C)   Written contract; lien.
      (1)   A written contract shall be entered into between the City and the
property owner providing for the reimbursement of fifty percent (50%) of the
actual costs of the work to the City from such owner in not to exceed 12 equal
monthly payments with a specified percent interest on the unpaid balance.
      (2)   The contract shall also provide that a lien shall exist on such
real property until all amounts due hereunder are paid in full, and for the
right to foreclose such lien, and that a copy of the contract may be filed of
record with the County Clerk with the costs of filing same borne by the City.
   (D)   Payments. All payments shall be made at the office of the City Clerk.
Failure to make such payment or payments within 12 months shall constitute a
violation of this article and subject the owner to the penalties contained
herein.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.6) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-6)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
8-3D-8
§ 8-3D-7 PROCEDURE FOR DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Disconnect order. Upon confirmation that an infiltration or inflow
source exists, the administration shall issue a disconnect order to the owner
or lessee as provided by §
8-3D-3 .
   (B)   Compliance with order. The owner or lessee shall immediately comply
with the order by obtaining the services of a licensed plumbing contractor to
perform all necessary work required.
   (C)   Competitive bids required. Prior to the commencement of any work, the
owner or lessee shall first present to the Code Official a minimum of three
competitive bids from licensed plumbers. The bids shall describe in sufficient
detail the methods and procedures by which the inflow and/or infiltration
source will be eliminated or removed and the total cost for all labor and
materials necessary to perform such work. The Code Official shall determine
that the work proposed is the proper and most cost efficient means of
eliminating the inflow and/or infiltration source.
   (D)   Reimbursement. The City shall reimburse the owner or lessee in an
amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the total cost of eliminating the inflow
and/or infiltration source, as stated on the lowest bid submitted. The Code
Official may reject one or all bids if, in his opinion, the bid or bids are
excessively high for the work proposed or for any other reason.
   (E)   Performance of work. All work shall be performed in a good, proper and
workmanlike manner and shall be performed in compliance with adopted codes,
ordinances and regulations of the City.
   (F)   Reinspect premises. After completion of the work, the administration
shall reinspect the premises to verify compliance with the disconnect order and
also to confirm that there are no other infiltration and inflow sources on the
property.
   (G)   Statement of final cost. It is the responsibility of the owner or
lessee to submit a statement of final cost to the administration for work
performed. In addition, a personally endorsed statement from the plumbing
contractor shall be attached to the statement, verifying that the charges for
the labor and material are true and correct.
   (H)   Acceptance constitutes consent. Acceptance of any reimbursement shall
constitute a consent by the owner accepting such payment to a reinspection of
the premises by the administration at any reasonable time thereafter for the
sole purpose of verifying the continued compliance with this article. Such
inspections shall be performed only after proper timely notice has been given
to the owner.
   (I)   Claims subject to review. Notwithstanding any provisions contained in
this article, all claims for reimbursement shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City Council.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.7) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-7)
§ 8-3D-8 TERMINATION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
   Financial assistance in the form of reimbursement for the cost of
eliminating infiltration and/or inflow sources shall hereby cease on December
31, 1992. Thereinafter, any such disconnection of inflow and/or infiltration
water flowing to the sanitary sewer systems, as required by this article, shall
be made at the owner’s expense. Failure to comply with any provision of this
article shall be deemed an offense and shall subject the owner to the penalties
prescribed for such offense.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.8) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-8)
§ 8-3D-9 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Conditions. These regulations shall not be constructed or interpreted
as imposing upon the City or its officials or employees:
      (1)   Any liability or responsibility for damage to any property;
      (2)   Any representation or warranty that any system, installation or
portion thereof that is constructed or repaired under orders and inspections
required by these regulations will function properly; or
      (3)   That reimbursement of costs must be made by the City Council.
   (B)   Service inspections, orders, activities. All service inspections,
orders and activities performed by the City or its officials or employees
pursuant to this article shall be considered and interpreted to be licensing
and/or inspection powers and functions.
(1994 Code, § 34-97.9) (Prior Code, § 8-3D-9)
ARTICLE E: CATEGORICAL USERS
§ 8-3E-1 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   If new federal categorical pretreatment standards are promulgated for a
particular industrial subcategory and if they are more stringent than the local
limitations, then the categorical standards shall immediately supersede the
local limitations imposed in this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 34-111) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-1)
§ 8-3E-2 NOTICE OF NEW FEDERAL STANDARDS; APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Determination of affected users; notice. In the event new, or revised,
federal categorical pretreatment standards are mandated and promulgated by EPA,
the environmental compliance specialist will analyze such standards and
determine which users are affected thereby. After the environmental compliance
specialist makes such determination, the affected users shall be notified in
writing of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
   (B)   Contesting determination.
      (1)   After receipt of the notice mentioned in subsection (A) above, any
user may contest the determination of the environmental compliance specialist
by addressing a letter of protest to the environmental compliance specialist
within ten days from the date such notice is received.
      (2)   The environmental compliance specialist, after receipt of the
protest, shall review the new standards and respond, in writing, to the protest
within 30 calendar days from the receipt of protest.
      (3)   If, after the completion of this review, the environmental
compliance specialist issues a determination that the new or revised
pretreatment standards are applicable to the protesting user, any additional
protest must be submitted to the Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality.
(1994 Code, § 34-112) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-2)
§ 8-3E-3 MODIFICATION OF STANDARDS.
   The City may modify pollutant discharge limits in the federal pretreatment
standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7 are fulfilled and
prior approval from the ODEQ or EPA is obtained.
(1994 Code, § 34-113) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-3)
§ 8-3E-4 COMPLIANCE DATE REPORT.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the environmental
compliance specialist a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user’s facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or
pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user.
(1994 Code, § 34-114) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-4)
§ 8-3E-5 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   The environmental compliance specialist may impose mass limitations on users
which are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements, or in other cases where the imposition of mass or concentration
limitations are appropriate. In such cases, the report shall indicate the mass
pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or long term
production rates and mass, where requested by the environmental compliance
specialist, of pollutants contained therein, which are limited by the
applicable pretreatment standard. For all other users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production (or other measures of operation), this report shall include
the user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. The
frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment
standard.
(1994 Code, § 34-115) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-5)
§ 8-3E-6 SAMPLING FROM CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   All samples from significant categorical industrial users shall be taken
immediately downstream from their pretreatment facilities or immediately
downstream from the regulated process if no pretreatment exists. The samples
shall be taken before the effluent joins or is diluted by any other
wastestream, body of water or substance. If other wastewaters are mixed with
the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment, and cannot be separated, the
user should measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the
combined wastestream formula in order to evaluate compliance with the
pretreatment standards. Monitoring points shall not be changed without
notification to, and the approval of, the environmental compliance specialist.
All pretreatment equipment must be routinely inspected and maintained to ensure
compliance.
(1994 Code, § 34-116) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-6)
§ 8-3E-7 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   User responsibility for compliance; expense. Users shall provide and
operate at all times necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply with
this article and shall achieve compliance with all federal categorical
pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by the federal
pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a
level acceptable to the City shall be provided, operated and maintained at the
user’s expense. The categorical industrial user shall control production of all
discharges, to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical
pretreatment standards upon reduction, loss or failure of its treatment
facility, until the facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment
is provided. Proper operation and maintenance includes, but is not limited to,
adequate laboratory controls, effective performance, adequate operator staffing
and training and quality assurance procedures. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the City
for review and shall be acceptable to the City before construction of the
facility.
   (B)   Modifications acceptable to city. The review of such plans and
operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
City under the provisions of this article. Any subsequent change in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the City prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (C)   Availability of records. All records relating to compliance with
pretreatment standards shall be made available to the City, ODEQ or the EPA
upon request.
(1994 Code, § 34-117) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-7)
§ 8-3E-8 NET/GROSS CALCULATIONS.
   Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect the presence
of pollutants in the industrial user’s intake water. The industrial user must
demonstrate that categorical pretreatment standards would be met in the absence
of pollutants in the intake water. Upon request of the user, the applicable
standard will be calculated on a “net” basis (i.e., adjusted to reflect credit
for pollutants in the intake water) by the City.
(1994 Code, § 34-118) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-8)
§ 8-3E-9 COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA.
   Where process effluent is mixed prior to treatment with wastewaters other
than that generated by the regulated process, fixed alternative discharge
limits may be derived by the City, or by the industrial user with the written
concurrence of the City. These alternative limits shall be applied to the mixed
effluent. When deriving alternative categorical limits, the City or industrial
user shall calculate both an alternative daily maximum value using the daily
maximum value(s) specified in the appropriate categorical pretreatment
standards and an alternative consecutive sampling day average value using the
monthly average value(s) specified in the appropriate categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (A)   Alternative limits below detection limit. An alternative pretreatment
limit may not be used if the alternative limit is below the analytical
detection limit for any of the regulated pollutants.
   (B)   Monitoring. Where a treated regulated process wastestream is combined
prior to treatment with wastestreams other than those generated by the
regulated process, the industrial user may monitor either the segregated
process wastestream or the combined wastestream for the purpose of determining
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards. If the industrial user
chooses to monitor the segregated process wastestream, it shall apply the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards. If the user chooses to monitor
the combined wastestream, it shall apply an alternative discharge limit
calculated using the combined wastestream formula. The industrial user may
change monitoring points only after receiving approval from the City. The City
shall ensure that any change in an industrial user’s monitoring point(s) will
not allow the user to substitute dilution for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with applicable standards.
(1994 Code, § 34-119) (Prior Code, § 8-3E-9)
ARTICLE F: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 8-3F-1 WASTEWATER SURVEY.
   (A)   Submit wastewater information upon request. When requested by the
environmental compliance specialist, all industrial users must submit
information on the nature and characteristics of their wastewater by completing
a wastewater survey. The environmental compliance specialist is authorized to
prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require industrial users
to update the survey (at least every five years).
   (B)   Failure to return survey. Any industrial user who is required to
complete a wastewater survey and fails to return such survey to the City within
30 days of receipt or any other such inaction shall be deemed a violation and
may subject such industrial user to water supply severance.
(1994 Code, § 34-120) (Prior Code, § 8-3F-1)
§ 8-3F-2 NEW SOURCES.
   New sources must install, have in operating condition and “start up” all
pollution control equipment required to meet applicable pretreatment standards
prior to discharge. Within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days),
new sources must achieve compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards.
(1994 Code, § 34-121) (Prior Code, § 8-3F-2)
§ 8-3F-3 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any significant industrial
user to discharge any wastewater to any natural outlet within the City and/or
to the POTW without a wastewater discharge permit, except as authorized by the
environmental compliance specialist in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
   (B)   Scope of permit. All significant industrial users proposing to connect
to, or to contribute to, the POTW governed by the National Categorical
Standards or all significant noncategorical industrial users shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to, or contributing to, the POTW.
All existing significant industrial users connected to, or contributing to, the
POTW governed by the National Categorical Standards, see 33 U.S.C. § 1317, or
all significant noncategorical industrial users shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit within 30 days of the effective date hereof. Any existing
significant industrial user or a new significant industrial user who does not
apply for a wastewater discharge permit or whose wastewater discharge permit
has been revoked pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be
disconnected from the POTW.
   (C)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall
complete and file with the environmental compliance specialist an application
in the form prescribed by the City. The environmental compliance specialist
shall maintain a copy of all permit applications in accordance with EPA
guidelines. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within
30 days of the effective date of this article and proposed new users required
to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall apply 90 days prior to connecting
to or discharging to the POTW. In support of the application, the user shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address and location (if different from address);
         (b)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) number according to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Bureau of the Budget, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in §
8-3A-13 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Clean Water Act, see 33 U.S.C. § 1314, and
contained in 40 C.F.R. § 136, as amended;
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by the city, state or Federal Pretreatment
Standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (j)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (daily average and
maximum per day);
         (k)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of the
plant and proposed or actual hours of operation of the pretreatment system; and
         (l)   Any other information environmental compliance application as
may be deemed necessary by the specialist to evaluate the permit.
      (2)   The environmental compliance specialist will evaluate the data
furnished by the user and may require additional information. After evaluation
and acceptance of the data furnished, the environmental compliance specialist
may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions
provided herein.
   (D)   Modifications. Within nine months of the promulgation of a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users
subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such
standards within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user,
subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater discharge permit as required by
subsection (C) above, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater
discharge permit shall submit to the environmental compliance specialist within
180 days after the promulgation of the applicable Federal Categorical
Pretreatment Standard the information required by subsection (C) above.
   (E)   Permit nontransferable. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not
be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different
premises or a new or changed operation.
(1994 Code, §§ 34-122.1, 34-122.2, 34-122.3, 34-122.4 and 34-122.5) (Prior
Code, § 8-3F-3)
§ 8-3F-4 EVALUATION; PERMIT DURATION AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Evaluation of data. The environmental compliance specialist will
evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the environmental
compliance specialist may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms
and conditions provided herein.
   (B)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period of less than five
years or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for
permit reissuance a minimum of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user’s
existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the environmental compliance specialist during the term of the
permit as limitations and requirements as identified in this article are
modified or if other just cause exists. The categorical or noncategorical
significant industrial user shall be informed by certified mail of any proposed
changes in his permit at least ten days prior to the effective date of change.
Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance. Upon determination by the environmental compliance
specialist that a user’s contribution to the POTW has changed or increased, the
superintendent or environmental compliance specialist may require the user to
reapply for a permit to amend the user’s existing permit.
   (C)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this article and all other applicable ordinances,
user charges and fees established by the City. Permits shall contain the
following:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a period of time
not to exceed five years in duration;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics based upon applicable general pretreatment standards in 40
C.F.R. § 403, Categorical Pretreatment Standards or local standards;
      (3)   Limits on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow or regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for self-monitoring programs based upon applicable
general and/or categorical pretreatment standards in 40 C.F.R. § 403, local
limits and state law which may include sampling locations, frequency of
sampling, number of samples to obtain, types of pollutants to be monitored and
standards for tests and reporting schedules and notification and record keeping
requirements;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see §
8-3G-1);
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the environmental compliance
specialist, and affording the environmental compliance specialist access
thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification to the superintendent or
environmental compliance specialist and the City of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (11)   Upon changes or increases in discharge, as determined by the
environmental compliance specialist, the user may be required to reapply or
amend its permit;
      (12)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the superintendent or
environmental compliance specialist to ensure compliance with this article;
      (13)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable compliance
schedules. Such schedules may not extend the compliance date beyond applicable
federal guidelines; and
      (14)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable.
(1994 Code, §§ 34-123.1, 34-123.2 and 34-123.3) (Prior Code, § 8-3F-4)
§ 8-3F-5 REPORTS AND INFORMATION; NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Signatory requirements. All applications, reports or information
submitted to the City must contain the following certification statement and be
signed as provided in subsections (A)(1) or (A)(2) below: “I certify under
penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my
direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that
qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted.
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those
persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information
submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate and
complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of fines and imprisonment for knowing
violations.”
      (1)   By a responsible corporate officer if the industry is a corporation
or by a general partner or proprietor if the industry is a partnership or a
sole proprietorship;
      (2)   By a duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above; and:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual
designated above;
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
industrial discharge originates, such as a position having overall
responsibility for environmental matters; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the City.
      (3)   If an authorization under subsection (A)(2)(b) above is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for the
environmental matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the
requirements of subsection (A)(2)(b) above must be submitted to the City prior
to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative;
      (4)   All applications, correspondence, reports and self-monitoring
reports may be signed by a duly authorized representative of the person
described above;
      (5)   Any change in signatures shall be submitted to the City in writing
within 30 days after the change; and
      (6)   Photostatic copies of signatures will not be accepted as valid.
   (B)   Baseline monitoring report (BMR).
      (1)   New sources and existing sources that become categorical industrial
users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable pretreatment standard, or
other industrial users as deemed applicable by the Public Utilities Director
shall be required by the City to submit a BMR (baseline monitoring report) at
least 90 days prior to discharge. This report shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Identifying information (name and address of facility including
name and operators or owners);
         (b)   Permits (list of environmental control permits held by the
facility);
         (c)   A description of the operations of the facility;
         (d)   Flow measurements for average and maximum daily flow in gallons
per day for regulated process streams and other streams as may be necessary;
and
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
      (2)   New sources may provide estimated rates on production, flow or
presence of regulated and quantity of pollutants.
   (C)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
environmental compliance specialist a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process
which are limited by pretreatment standards and requirements and the average
and maximum daily flow for these process units in the user’s facility which are
limited by such pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state
whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance (O&M)
and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user, and certified by
a qualified professional.
   (D)   Report of changed conditions. Industrial users shall give notice to
the City 90 days prior to any significant facility expansion, production
increase or process modifications which result in new or substantially
increased or reduced discharges (of ten percent (10%) or greater) or a change
in the nature of the discharge or the increased or decreased concentrations of
pollutants to the POTW.
      (1)   No industrial user shall implement the planned changed condition(s)
until and unless the environmental compliance specialist has responded to the
industrial user’s notice.
      (2)   For purposes of this requirement, flow increases of ten percent
(10%) or greater, and the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants,
shall be deemed significant.
   (E)   User give notice of changes. Any new source or any existing user,
whose discharges are subject to Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards, see
33 U.S.C. § 1317, or any significant noncategorical industrial user, shall
notify the environmental compliance specialist of any of the following changes
of condition, within 30 days prior to the occurrence of such changes, the same
being as follows:
      (1)   Transfer of ownership;
      (2)   Change of product line;
      (3)   Alterations of discharge volume, flow rate, character, chemical
composition and the like;
      (4)   Facility expansion; or
      (5)   Production increase.
   (F)   Hazardous waste notification.
      (1)   The industrial user shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director and ODEQ hazardous waste authorities in writing of
any discharge into the POTW of a substance, which, if otherwise disposed of,
would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. § 261.
      (2)   The contacts are: EPA Region VI, Director, Hazardous Waste
Management Division, 1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1200, Dallas, Texas, 75202; and
the Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality, Hazardous Waste Management
Services, 1000 NE 10th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73117-1299.
      (3)   Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste, the
EPA hazardous waste number and the type of discharge (continuous, batch or
other). If the industrial user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste
per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain: an
identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes; an
estimate of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream
discharge during the calendar month; and an estimation of the mass of
constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place within 180 days of the effective
date of this rule. Any notification needs to be submitted only once for each
hazardous waste discharged.
      (4)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirement during a calendar month
in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless
the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d)
and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of nonacute hazardous waste
as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time
notification.
      (5)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), see 42 U.S.C. § 6921, listing any
additional substances as hazardous wastes, the industrial user must notify the
POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substances within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulation.
      (6)   In case of notification to the POTW, the industrial user shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically
practical.
(1994 Code, §§ 34-124.1—34-124.6) (Prior Code, § 8-3F-5)
ARTICLE G: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 8-3G-1 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Time of reporting; basis for reporting.
      (1)   Any significant categorical industrial user subject to a
pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard,
or in the case of a new source, after the commencement of the discharge into
the POTW, or any significant noncategorical industrial user, shall submit to
the environmental compliance specialist, during the months of June and December
or July and January, depending upon the requirements as specified in the
industrial user permits, unless the reports are required more frequently in the
pretreatment or local standards or by order of the environmental compliance
specialist, the report shall indicate the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such pretreatment or local
standards.
      (2)   These reports shall be based on appropriate sampling and analysis
performed in the period covered by the report in which data is representative
of the volume and nature of discharge occurring during the reporting period,
and performed in accordance with the techniques described in 40 C.F.R. § 136,
and amendments thereto.
      (3)   If the industrial user monitors any pollutants more frequently than
required by the City, the results of this monitoring shall be included in this
report if this monitoring data conforms to 40 C.F.R. § 136. The results of such
monitoring shall be included in any calculations of actual daily maximum or
monthly average pollutants discharged, and the results shall be reported in the
semiannual report submitted to the City. In addition, this report shall include
a record of all average and maximum daily flows during the reporting period.
      (4)   At the discretion of the environmental compliance specialist, and
in consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays,
budget cycles or similar variables, the environmental compliance specialist may
agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
      (5)   If the industrial user wastewater analysis indicates a violation
has occurred, the user must inform the City within 24 hours, repeat the
sampling and pollutant analysis, and submit in writing to the City the results
of the second analysis within 30 days of violation awareness. At a minimum, the
results of this second analysis shall be submitted in writing to the City
within five days of receiving the results from the contract laboratory.
   (B)   Sampling and analytical procedures. In the event 40 C.F.R. § 136 does
not include a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the EPA publication, “Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening
of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutants, April 1977”, and amendments
thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures approved by the
administrator of EPA.
   (C)   Failure to report; written warnings issued.
      (1)   In the event a periodic compliance report provided for in this
section is not filed with the City on its due date, the environmental
compliance specialist shall issue a maximum of three written warnings to the
user who fails to comply with this provision.
      (2)   These warnings shall be issued at five-day intervals, with the
first warning given five days after the original due date of such report. If a
user does not respond to the warning, or in the event the user wholly fails to
file a report, the environmental compliance specialist shall take the
appropriate enforcement response.
(1994 Code, § 34-125) (Prior Code, § 8-3G-1)
§ 8-3G-2 ANALYSIS OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Sampling; control manhole.
      (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
wastewater to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 136 entitled “Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants” 1991, or amendments thereto, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole in the event that no special manhole has been
required. The control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected.
      (2)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of the
premises are appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.)
   (B)   Documentation; shipment to laboratory. Chain-of-custody documentation
will be completed, bottles will be labeled and marked and the samples will be
used, if necessary, prior to shipment to the contract laboratory. The proper
type of container and preservative will be used depending upon the parameter
sampled, per 40 C.F.R. § 136.
   (C)   Contents of records. Records of sampling and analyses shall include:
      (1)   The date, exact place, time and type of sampling or measurements,
and sample preservation techniques or procedures;
      (2)   The individual(s) who obtained the sampling or field measurements;
      (3)   Chain-of-custody documentation; and
      (4)   Samples shipped at 4°C or 39°F.
   (D)   Flow proportional sampling. Significant industrial users (SIUs) are
required to use 24-hour flow proportional composite sampling where feasible.
Where flow proportional sampling is not feasible (as determined by the City and
specified in the individual user permits), time proportional samples are
preferred. When time proportional samples are collected to make a composite
sample; at least one sample will be collected every 30 minutes (or as often as
the City determines is necessary) during the sampling period. When neither flow
proportional nor time proportional sampling is possible, grab samples may be
used to make a composite. At least one sample will be collected one and one-
half hours apart, four times a day when grab samples are used for composting.
Samples will be collected during a normal operating period.
   (E)   Grab samples. Grab samples are also collected when required by the
pollutant obtained. There are six named pollutants for which grab sampling is
required. The pollutants are: pH, total cyanide, total phenol, total oil and
grease, sulfide and volatile organics. When grab samples are collected, a
minimum of one sample will be taken for each pollutant during the operating
day.
   (F)   Minimum sampling requirements. When significant industrial users
(SIUs) are required to collect wastewater samples by the City, these facilities
shall obtain, at least semiannually, one 24-hour flow proportional composite or
one time proportional sample for the indicated pollutants, depending upon the
parameter, to comply with minimum sampling requirements.
(1994 Code, § 34-126) (Prior Code, § 8-3G-2)
§ 8-3G-3 SELF-MONITORING VERSUS CITY MONITORING.
   Self-monitoring sampling and analysis for the industrial user may be
performed by the City. If the City collects all the information required for
the self-monitoring report, including flow data, the industrial user will not
be required to submit the self-monitoring report.
(1994 Code, § 34-127) (Prior Code, § 8-3G-3)
§ 8-3G-4 RETENTION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Period of retention.
      (1)   The user shall retain records of all facility monitoring/
maintenance information, copies of all reports required and records of all data
for a period of at least three years from the date of the sample, measurement,
report or application.
      (2)   This period may be extended by request of the City at any time.
   (B)   Enforcement response or litigation activities. All records that
pertain to matters that are the subject of consent orders or any other
enforcement response or litigation activities brought by the City shall be
retained and preserved by the user until all enforcement activities have
concluded and all periods of limitations with respect to any and all appeals
have expired.
   (C)   Records required. The following records shall be contained in the
periodic compliance report or in the chain-of-custody documentation provided by
the industrial user:
      (1)   The date(s) and times analyses were performed for each parameter;
      (2)   The individual(s) initials who performed the analyses;
      (3)   The analytical techniques or methods used;
      (4)   Results received from blank, duplicate, percent recovery and spike
samples;
      (5)   Name of chief chemist responsible for analyses;
      (6)   Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality certification number,
or any other agency named to take over the responsibilities of overseeing
commercial laboratories; and
      (7)   The results of such analyses.
(1994 Code, § 34-128) (Prior Code, § 8-3G-4)
§ 8-3G-5 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Certain information open to public. Information and data on a user
obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permit and
monitoring programs and from inspections shall be available to the public or
other governmental agency, including the EPA, without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the City that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user.
   (B)   Certain information confidential. When requested by the person
furnishing the report, the portions of a report which might disclose trade
secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the
public but shall be made available upon written request to governmental
agencies for uses related to this article, the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit, state disposal permit and/or the
pretreatment program; provided, however, that such portions of a report shall
be available for use by the state agency in judicial review of enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents
and characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Notice to user. Information accepted by the City as confidential shall
not be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the
City until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user by certified
mail.
(1994 Code, § 34-129) (Prior Code, § 8-3G-5)
§ 8-3G-6 INDUSTRIAL USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Publication of list. The City shall annually publish in the Enid News
and Eagle Newspaper a list of significant industrial users (SIUs) which, at any
time during the previous five quarters, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment requirements or standards.
   (B)   Criteria determining noncompliance. For the purpose of this provision,
a significant industrial user (SIU) is in significant noncompliance if its
violation meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken
during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or
the long term average limit for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as those
in which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements for each
pollutant parameter taken during a six-month period that is equal to or exceeds
the product or the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable TRC (1.4 times the limit for BOD5, TSS, fat and O&G and 1.2 times
the limit for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or long term average) that the City determines has proximately caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in the permit or enforcement order for
starting construction, completing construction or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and compliance schedule milestone reports;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations that the City determines
will adversely affect the operations or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   (C)   Notice summarize enforcement actions. The notification shall also
summarize any enforcement actions take against significant industrial users
during the same five quarters.
   (D)   Records available to officials. All records relating to compliance
with pretreatment standards shall be made available to officials of the EPA or
ODEQ upon request.
(1994 Code, § 34-130) (Prior Code, § 8-3G-6)
ARTICLE H: COMPLIANCE MONITORING; ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 8-3H-1 ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   The Environmental Enforcement Board will consist of the following
persons:
         (a)   The City’s Code Official;
         (b)   The Director of Engineering Services;
         (c)   Two representatives from among the significant industrial users;
and
         (d)   A resident member.
      (2)   The Chairman of the Board will be the Director of Engineering
Services.
      (3)   Each significant industrial user may designate a representative to
serve on the Board on a rotation basis. The representatives will be placed on a
rotation list, and two industrial representatives will be called to serve for
each hearing. If the representative’s industry is before the Board when its
representative is called, that representative will be skipped and the next
industrial representative will be called to serve. The rotation list will be
kept by the Chairman of the Board, and the Chairman will be in charge of
developing the rotation system.
      (4)   A resident member is to be appointed by the City Council after the
City Clerk has advertised for residents of the City to apply if they are
interested in serving on the Environmental Enforcement Board. The
qualifications for the resident member are that they reside within the city
limits and have an interest in environmental matters, and are not an employee
or principal of a significant industrial user. The term for a resident member
is three years, and said member serves at the pleasure of the City Council.
   (B)   Meetings. The Board shall meet as required upon receiving notice of
appeal. Reasonable notice of the place, time and date of such meeting shall be
given to all members of the Board.
   (C)   Duties. The duty of the Environmental Enforcement Board is to hear
appeals from the decisions made at administrative hearings. These appeals will
be conducted as trial de novos. Written findings will be made at the conclusion
of each hearing and deliberations will occur in executive session.
   (D)   Decisions. All decisions of the Environmental Enforcement Board are
final unless appealed pursuant to 12 O.S. § 951 to Garfield District Court
within 30 days from the user’s receipt of the judgment of the Board.
(1994 Code §§ 34-135.3—34-135.6) (Prior Code, § 8-3H-1)
§ 8-3H-2 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING; SEARCH WARRANTS.
   (A)   Inspections.
      (1)   The City, ODEQ or EPA, bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this article. The City or its representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or natural outlet or
waters of the state or POTW.
      (2)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection (A)(1) above, the city, ODEQ and EPA employees shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company may be held responsible for injury or death to the city, state or EPA
employees’ gauging and sampling operations, caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required by this article. These
city, state and EPA employees shall not sign any release or waiver of liability
form prior to entering these premises.
      (3)   All duly authorized employees of the City, ODEQ and EPA bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspections, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (B)   Inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The City shall inspect the facilities of any significant or
categorical industrial user to ascertain whether the purpose of this article is
being met and all requirements are being complied with at least once per year.
Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or discharged
shall allow the City or their representative ready access at all reasonable
times to all parts of the premises for the purpose of inspection, sampling,
records examination and copying on site if needed, or in the performance of any
of their other duties. The City, ODEQ and the EPA shall have the authority and
right to set up on the user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a
user has security measures in force which would require proper identification
and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make
arrangements with their security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the City, ODEQ and EPA will be permitted to
enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities.
      (2)   The City may require the industrial user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
industrial user at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow
and quality shall be calibrated (periodically) to ensure their accuracy.
      (3)   The City shall randomly sample and analyze the effluent from
industrial users and conduct surveillance activities in order to identify,
independently of information supplied by industrial users, occasional and
continuing noncompliance with pretreatment standards. The City shall inspect
and sample the effluent from each significant industrial user (SIU) at least
once a year.
   (C)   Search warrants. If the environmental compliance specialist has been
refused access to a building, structure or property or any part thereof, and if
the environmental compliance specialist has demonstrated probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this article or that there is a need
to inspect as part of a routine inspection program of the City designed to
verify compliance with this article or any permit or order issued hereunder, or
to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
upon application by the City Attorney, the applicable judge of the City shall
issue a search and/or seizure warrant describing therein the specific location
subject to the warrant. The warrant shall specify what, if anything, may be
searched and or seized on the property described. Such warrant shall be served
at reasonable hours by the environmental compliance specialist in the company
of a uniformed police officer of the City. In the event of an emergency
affecting public health and safety, inspections shall be made without the
issuance of a warrant.
(1994 Code, §§ 34-131—34-131.3) (Prior Code, § 8-3H-2)
§ 8-3H-3 NONCOMPLIANCE; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Failure to file compliance report; warnings. In the event a periodic
compliance report is not filed with the City on its due date, the environmental
compliance specialist shall issue a maximum of three written warnings to the
user who fails to comply. These warnings shall be issued at five-day intervals,
with the first warning given five days after the original due date of such
report. If a user does not respond to the warning or in the event the user
wholly fails to file a report, the environmental compliance specialist will
issue a notice of violation.
   (B)   Administrative notice. Whenever the environmental compliance
specialist determines that there is a possibility of a violation of the local
limits, an administrative notice will be mailed to the industrial user. The
user must immediately resample the questionable result and submit the analysis
within 30 days of violation awareness. If the second analysis indicates a
violation has occurred, a notice of violation (NOV) will be issued to said
user.
   (C)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the environmental compliance specialist finds that any
user is in violation of this article, the environmental compliance specialist
may serve upon said user a written notice of violation (NOV) by certified mail,
return receipt requested. The user must, within five working days of the
receipt of this notice, submit to the environmental compliance specialist an
explanation of the violation and its intended course of corrective action,
including the estimated date by which corrective action will be completed, and
a plan to prevent further violations. After receipt of this response, the
environmental compliance specialist will periodically inspect and monitor the
corrective action taken by the user. The environmental compliance specialist
may grant reasonable extensions to the deadline date. The financial condition
of the user shall not be considered in establishing deadlines or extensions.
      (2)   Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability
for any violations occurring before or after the receipt of the notice of
violation (NOV), nor does this section limit the authority of the City to take
any action, including emergency action, without first issuing a notice of
violation.
      (3)   If the user fails to respond to a notice of violation within the
required time period, or if the user fails to complete the corrective action by
the deadline, this failure constitutes a separate violation under this article,
and the City shall use the enforcement response plan to determine the
appropriate response. (1994 Code, §§ 34-132.1—34-132.3)
§ 8-3H-4 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   Supporting evidence. An industrial user who complies with the
notification provisions of §
8-3A-11  in a timely manner shall have an affirmative defense to any
enforcement action brought by the City for any noncompliance with this article
or permit issued to the user due to noxious, malodorous or toxic liquids,
gases, vapors, fumes or solids if properly signed operational logs or other
relative evidence shows that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the causes of the
upset; and
      (2)   The facility was being operated in a prudent and workmanlike manner
and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance procedures.
   (B)   Burden of proof. ln any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user
seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
(1994 Code, § 34-133) (Prior Code, § 8-3H-4)
§ 8-3H-5 REMEDIES BY USERS; CITY ACTION UPON NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Consent orders. The environmental compliance specialist is hereby
authorized to enter into consent orders with any user responsible for
noncompliance. Such orders will include the specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the
order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative
orders issued pursuant to subsections (B) and (C) below and shall be judicially
enforceable.
   (B)   Compliance schedule.
      (1)   If additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance will be
required of the user to meet the pretreatment standards, a compliance schedule
will be developed by the environmental compliance specialist for the user. A
compliance schedule may be made a part of a consent order, an administrative
order or a ruling of the Environmental Enforcement Board. The user shall meet
the shortest schedule by which to provide all such additional pretreatment.
      (2)   The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
completion date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The
following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation or additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
         (b)   No increment referred to in this section shall exceed nine
months.
         (c)   No later than 14 days following each compliance date, the user
shall submit a progress report to the environmental compliance specialist, and
a final report must be submitted within 14 days from the final compliance date
as well.
         (d)   The report should include, at a minimum, whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date. If it did not
comply, the report must contain the date on which it expects to comply with
this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by
the user to return the construction to the schedule established.
      (3)   Compliance schedules may also contain other requirements to address
the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring, and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer.
      (4)   A compliance schedule shall not be a prerequisite for taking any
other action against the user.
   (C)   Cease and desist orders.
      (1)   When the environmental compliance specialist finds that a user is
in violation of this article, or based upon the user’s past history, similar
violations are likely to reoccur, the environmental compliance specialist may
issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such
violations. A cease and desist order may require the user to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and/or
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation up to and
including halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      (2)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a prerequisite to
taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Cost recovery. Any user violating any of the provisions of this
article or who causes damage to or otherwise inhibits the POTW, shall be
assessed by the environmental compliance specialist the amount of any expense,
loss or damage which was proximately caused by such violation or discharge.
These costs may include sampling and monitoring expenses and the cost of any
actual damages incurred by the City or the POTW. The environmental compliance
specialist shall bill the user for the cost incurred by the City for any
cleaning, repair or replacement work and enforcement costs caused by the
violation or discharge. This bill is in addition to any criminal penalty
applicable under this article.
   (E)   Emergency suspension.
      (1)   The environmental compliance specialist may immediately suspend a
user’s discharge into the POTW and/or wastewater discharge permit whenever such
suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which reasonably appears to present an imminent or substantial endangerment to
the health or welfare of persons, to the environment or threatens to cause
interference with the POTW, the waters of the state or threatens to result in a
violation of the City’s NPDES permit. Any user notified of a suspension of its
discharge shall immediately stop or eliminate its contribution.
      (2)   In the event of a user’s failure to immediately comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the environmental compliance specialist shall take
such steps as deemed necessary, (to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, the
waters of the state or endangerment to any individuals) to include: revocation
of the permit, termination of discharge or immediate water supply severance.
      (3)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any further occurrence to the environmental compliance specialist
within 15 days of the date of the order of emergency suspension.
      (4)   Nothing in this subsection (E) shall be interpreted as requiring a
hearing or formal notice prior to any emergency suspension order.
      (5)   The environmental compliance specialist will lift the emergency
suspension when the user has demonstrated that the period of endangerment has
passed.
   (F)   Revocation of permit. Any user who violates the following conditions
is subject to having their permit revoked:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of their discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection and monitoring;
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit; or
      (5)   Failure to pay cost recovery, administrative penalty or to perform
specific remedies such as posting performance bonds.
   (G)   Termination of discharge into city sewer system. The wastewater
discharge into the City’s sewer system by industrial users may be terminated
for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports concerning wastewater
constituents and characteristics of the discharge;
      (2)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to the discharge;
      (4)   Refusing to allow timely access to the facility, premises and
records;
      (5)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (6)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (7)   Failure to pay penalties, fines and/or cost recovery;
      (8)   Failure to pay sewer charges; and
      (9)   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
   (H)   Water supply severance. Whenever a user has violated the provisions of
this article, orders or wastewater discharge permits, water service to the user
may be severed. Service will only recommence at the user’s expense, after the
user has satisfactorily complied with all the requirements assessed against
such user by the City.
(1994 Code, §§ 34-134.1—34-134.8) (Prior Code, § 8-3H-5)
§ 8-3H-6 APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF CITY; HEARING PROCEDURE.
   If said user disputes the appropriateness of the enforcement response of the
environmental compliance specialist, or the validity of the violation, the user
may request an administrative hearing before the Public Utilities Director to
review said order. The request must be in writing and must specify the reasons
for appeal. It must be filed with the City Clerk within 15 days from receipt of
the appealed from order.
   (A)   Administrative hearing.
      (1)   Whenever any user causes or contributes to a violation of this
article and the environmental compliance specialist determines that the
appropriate enforcement response includes revocation of a permit, termination
of discharge or water supply severance and the situation does not rise to the
level of an emergency suspension, the environmental compliance specialist will
issue an order requiring the user to appear before the Public Utilities
Director and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken.
         (a)   Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place
for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action and the reason for such
action. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such
notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user.
         (b)   Whether or not the user appears as ordered, immediate
enforcement action may be pursued following the hearing date.
         (c)   An administrative hearing shall not be a prerequisite for taking
any other action against the user.
      (2)   Administrative hearings will also be held when a user appeals an
order of the environmental compliance specialist.
   (B)   Appeals from administrative hearings.
      (1)   If said user disputes the administrative order made by the Public
Utilities Director at an administrative hearing, it may appeal to the
Environmental Enforcement Board by filing a written request with the City Clerk
within 15 days from the administrative hearing. The user must state in its
written request the finding objected to, the reason for said appeal, and the
alternative it seeks.
      (2)   Whether the user disputes the appropriateness of the enforcement
response or the validity of the violation, or both, an appeal bond equal to the
amount of any and all monetary penalties assessed, or if none are assessed, in
the amount of $250 must accompany said appeal request.
      (3)   Failure to submit a petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the appeal.
(1994 Code, §§ 34-135, 34-135.1 and 34-135.2) (Prior Code, § 8-3H-6)
§ 8-3H-7 PERFORMANCE BOND TO GUARANTEE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Bond may be required. The environmental compliance specialist, Public
Utilities Director or Environmental Enforcement Board may require the posting
of a performance bond prior to the lifting of a suspension order, reissuing a
wastewater discharge permit or reconnecting the water supply or sewer service.
   (B)   Bond amount. The bond is to be payable to the City in a sum not to
exceed a value determined by the City to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance and to protect or restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by
similar violations.
(1994 Code, § 34-136) (Prior Code, § 8-3H-7)
§ 8-3H-8 LEGAL ACTIONS.
   (A)   Injunctive relief and civil penalties. Whenever a user has violated a
pretreatment standard or requirement or continues to violate the provisions of
this article, wastewater discharge permits or orders issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment requirement, the City may seek a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this
article on activities of the industrial user. Such other action as appropriate
for legal and/or equitable relief may also be sought by the City, including any
action for damages, reasonable attorney fees, court costs and other expenses
associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring
expenses and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the City.
   (B)   Remedies nonexclusive. The provisions of this article are not
exclusive remedies. The City reserves the right to take any, all or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. The City’s
enforcement responses will generally be in accordance with the City’s
enforcement response plan. However, the City reserves the right to take other
action against any user when the circumstances warrant, to include pursuit of
civil litigation in state, district and/or federal courts for damages,
injunctive relief and/or specific performance.
(1994 Code, § 34-137) (Prior Code, § 8-3H-8)
§ 8-3H-9 CRIMINAL ACTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations. Any user that willfully or negligently violates any
provision of this article, any orders or wastewater discharge permits issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a Class D offense, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per
violation per day.
   (B)   Allowing harmful substances into POTW. Any user that willfully or
negligently introduces any substance into the POTW which causes personal injury
or property damage shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class D offense,
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per violation per day.
   (C)   Falsifying information.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make any false statements. False
statements include oral communications to city officials and/or statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other documentation filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
article.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly tamper with or knowingly render
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this article.
      (3)   The violation of this subsection (C) shall be a Class D offense,
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per violation per day.
   (D)   Vandalism.
      (1)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with or prevent access to, any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the POTW.
      (2)   The violation of this subsection (D) shall be a Class D offense,
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per violation per day.
   (E)   Separate offense for each day. Each day on which a violation occurs
shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   (F)   Considerations for assessing penalty. The penalties will be assessed
on an incremental basis at the sole discretion of the assessor and will take
into consideration the nature of the violation, the good faith of the user, the
compliance history of the user and the effect of the violation on the POTW or
the waters of the state, as well as any other relevant factors.
(1994 Code, § 34-138) (Prior Code, § 8-3H-9)
CHAPTER 4: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
8-4-1   Definitions
   
8-4-2   Mandatory use of service; exception
   
8-4-3   Collection agency
   
8-4-4   Fees, billing for refuse collection and container rental
   
8-4-5   Precollection practices
   
8-4-6   Garbage and rubbish containers
   
8-4-7   Storing trash
   
8-4-8   Collection of yard trimmings and refuse
   
8-4-9   Residential solid waste; disposition
   
8-4-10   Removal of construction materials
   
8-4-11   Use of another’s trash container
   
8-4-12   Request for exemption from use of service
   
8-4-13   Sanitary landfill; permit; fees; restrictions
   
8-4-14   Penalty
§ 8-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A narrow passage or way, not designed to be a street or highway,
intersecting a block or tract of land, and so designated on a plat of record or
established by prescription and used primarily for the accommodation of the
abutting or adjoining property.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle.
   CARRYOUT SERVICE. Service from a point of collection at ground level not
more than 75 feet from the street from which collection is made and not
obstructed by gates, fences, enclosed porches, garages or similar enclosures.
CARRYOUT SERVICE shall not include service from alleys.
   CHARGING UNIT.
      (1)   Each occupied single-family dwelling.
      (2)   Each unit designed to be occupied and used by one or more reasons
for living and cooking together in a multiple-family dwelling or apartment or
apartment hotel.
      (3)   Each licensed lot or space for a mobile home or trailer coach in a
mobile home park or in a trailer court.
      (4)   Each commercial establishment or premises other than subsection (2)
or (3) of this definition.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, produce, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   CURBSIDE SERVICE. Service from a point of collection adjacent to and along
the curb or pavement edge of a paved street or adjacent to, and on the street
side of, a roadside ditch of unimproved streets, from which collection is made;
except however, the container shall not interfere with the free movement of
traffic. CURBSIDE SERVICE shall not include service from alleys.
   DISABLED PERSON. An adult person having a physical impairment which prevents
said individual from meeting the physical requirements for curbside service,
i.e., unable to carry the bags to the street.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible, animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Hazardous waste that is used in the home and is
generally of one of these varieties: paints/lacquers, pesticides/herbicides,
automotive products or household cleaners. Any waste that is flammable,
corrosive, reactive or toxic will be considered HAZARDOUS.
   LITTER. “Garbage”, “refuse” and “rubbish” as defined herein and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general laws and,
in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the
public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a “commercial handbill”
or “newspaper”.
   POLYCART. A rollout cart (90 to 105 gallons) used for curbside automated
waste and recycling collection which is made out of stress free molding
technology known as advanced rotational molding.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling house, building or other structure designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, dead animals, abandoned automobiles
and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
the purpose of vehicular travel.
   TRASH. Shall extend to the widest sense of that term, and includes, but
without limitation upon any other meaning, refuse, litter, ashes, leaves,
debris, paper, combustible materials, offal, rubbish, waste and useless or
uncared for matter of all kinds, whether solid or liquid in form.
   TREE TRIMMING. Large, heavy trimmings resulting from pruning or shrub
removal if branches or trunks do not exceed four inches in diameter.
   VEHICULAR. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
   YARD TRIMMINGS. Those materials generated while providing normal maintenance
to the yard area adjacent to a single-family residential unit. This shall
include grass and weed trimmings, leaves and garden wastes, in addition to
other items related to maintenance of other landscaping, but shall not include
tree trimmings, rocks, gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 2009-28, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 8-4-2 MANDATORY USE OF SERVICE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Use required. Except as herein otherwise authorized, all noncommercial
refuse accumulated in the City shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by
the City, and not by any other person.
   (B)   Roll-off exemption. The prohibition against collection of refuse by
persons other than the City does not apply to ROLL-OFFS, defined as 20, 30 or
40 cubic yard containers.
(1994 Code, §§ 34-156 and 34-167) (Prior Code, § 8-4-2)
§ 8-4-3 COLLECTION AGENCY.
   All refuse accumulated in the City shall be collected, conveyed and disposed
of by the City under the supervision of the Solid Waste Department, which shall
have the authority to make regulations concerning the days of collection, type
and location of waste containers and such other matters pertaining to the
collection, conveyance and disposal as it shall find necessary, and to change
and modify the same; provided that such regulations are not contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 34-157) (Prior Code, § 8-4-3)
§ 8-4-4 FEES, BILLING FOR REFUSE COLLECTION AND CONTAINER RENTAL.
   (A)   Dwelling units. The monthly fee for collection and disposal of garbage
and rubbish placed in the polycart for curbside service from dwelling units
shall be as provided in §
2-6E-8 . The monthly fee for collection and disposal of garbage and rubbish
placed in the polycart for carryout service from dwelling units shall be as
provided in §
2-6E-8 .
   (B)   Additional dwelling units. Residential customers may make a request
for the placement of additional polycarts. The monthly fee for the additional
polycarts shall be as provided in §
2-6E-8 . The request for additional polycarts shall be subject to the
following.
      (1)   Additional polycarts shall require a minimum placement period of
six months.
      (2)   Requests for pick up/removal of additional polycarts during the
minimum placement period shall be subject to a fee of $30 per additional
polycart.
   (C)   Commercial units. The monthly fee for collection and disposal of
garbage and rubbish for charging (commercial) units shall be as established in
§
2-6E-8 .
   (D)   Contacts; variance from minimum fee. When commercial refuse
accumulations require collection other than prescribed in subsection (C) above,
the charge for such collections shall be as provided in §
2-6E-8 (D), and the owner or occupant of the premises requesting this extra
service shall be responsible for the additional charges.
   (E)   Container rental rates. Appropriate rental rates for city provided
containers shall be determined by the Public Works Department and billed
monthly to the user in addition to monthly collection charges. The rental rate
for containers shared by more than one charging unit will be proportioned by
the number of charging units sharing such container. Said charge shall reflect
the capital and maintenance cost amortized over the life of the container.
   (F)   Carryout service.
      (1)   Carryout service shall be provided for the disabled person if such
individual provides certification to the Finance Director that he is the head
of household and provides documentation from a recognized agency (Social
Security, Veterans Administration) private insurance company, pension fund or
other disability documentation acceptable to the Finance Director and further
certifies that no other person or member of the household is physically capable
of placing the container for curbside service and further certifies the address
where the applicant resides. If such documentation is approved by the Director
of Finance, the applicant will receive carryout service at curbside rates.
      (2)   Any person making a false or incorrect certification shall be
guilty of an offense and shall further be liable for the monthly charges for
carryout service for the prior months the person received such service at
curbside rates. Certifications must be renewed on July 1 of each year.
      (3)   Carryout service shall not be provided for persons who have not
complied with subsection (F)(1) above.
   (G)   Curbside service. Every person occupying or having control of the
occupancy of any private premises located on a regularly established refuse
route shall be presumed to have requested and authorized curbside service and
shall be billed for such service, regardless of whether the service was
provided by the City, unless such person makes a written request for carryout
service from the customer service department on an authorized city form prior
to July 1, 1983, or any subsequent monthly billing cycle, and provides
documentation required by subsection (F)(1) above.
   (H)   Charging units. Every person occupying or having control of the
occupancy of any charging units located on a regularly established refuse route
shall notify the Customer Service Department the beginning of such occupancy
and request refuse pick up service; however, the failure of any owner, rental
agent or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not prevent in
any way, impair or impede the solid waste superintendent from adding the
address of such premises to the proper refuse collection route records
providing said service, enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures
herein prescribed and causing the fee or charge therefor to be paid. Any place
of abode or residence, or any other place or business occupied and/or in
operation shall be prima facie evidence that garbage, refuse and/or trash is
being produced and accumulated in such premises.
   (I)   Change in method of collection. No person receiving curbside or
carryout service shall be allowed to change to the alternate method of service
for a period of six months after the initial service is requested or provided,
unless said person relocates to another address. However, the City Manager may
exempt persons from this provision based on a physical impairment arising or
when the effective and orderly public service is not substantially affected by
the change. Any change in the method of collection hereinabove allowed will
begin on the first day of the month following the month the change is
requested.
   (J)   Billing on water statement.
      (1)   Refuse collection charges shall be billed on the water statements
and shall become due and payable on the same date and time, at the Customer
Services Department of the City, where water bills are rendered, but shall be
shown as a separate item from the water charge or the sewer service charge.
      (2)   The Customer Service Department shall not accept payment for refuse
collection charges without payment of the water bill, nor shall it accept
payment of the water bill without a payment for refuse collection charges,
except where the City has not made city water available to a user of city
refuse collection service; provided, however, that the customer shall have the
right to contest and opportunity to be heard concerning the bill with the
Customer Service Department under this section.
   (K)   Delinquency; penalty; discontinuance of service.
      (1)   A customer failing to pay the refuse collection charge within ten
days from the date the charge becomes due shall be charged a late payment
penalty of ten percent (10%) in addition to the regular bill; and if not paid
within 30 days after such refuse collection bill becomes due, such delinquency
shall be cause for immediate discontinuing or disconnecting of the water
connection or refuse collection service or both.
      (2)   Penalties, charges and fees shall be paid before either or both the
refuse collection service and water service are reestablished. The stoppage of
services for nonpayment of collection charges shall be in addition to the right
of the City to proceed for the collection of unpaid charges through legal
action.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 2009-28, passed 12-1-2009; Ord. 2010-12, passed 11-
16-2010)
§ 8-4-5 PRECOLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Garbage and rubbish. All garbage and rubbish, excluding household
hazardous waste, being placed in containers for collection, shall have drained
from it all free liquids and shall be deposited in the polycart(s) provided by
the City. All hypodermic needles shall be protected by either the original cap
or by the use of cardboard or styrofoam sufficient in size to completely cover
the length of the needle. Broken glass shall be placed in a box or securely
wrapped in sufficient layers of paper to prevent contact during the trash
collection process.
   (B)   Tree trimmings. All tree trimmings, hedge clippings and similar
material shall be cut to lengths not to exceed four feet and separately tied in
bundles not more than two-feet thick before being deposited for collection.
Tree trimmings shall not be placed in the polycart. The homeowner shall notify
the City of the tree trimmings in order to have the refuse removed.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 2009-28, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 8-4-6 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Containers required; maintenance.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, every person owning,
managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage
or rubbish accumulates, shall provide and at all times maintain in good order
and repair, on any such premises, a city provided polycart, which shall be used
for the automated waste removal system and shall not be removed from the
premises. It is the resident’s responsibility to keep sufficient capacity and
in such sufficient numbers to accommodate and securely keep all the garbage and
rubbish that may accumulate between collections.
      (2)   Any polycart that does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter or that may have ragged or sharp edges or any other defect liable to
hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof shall be replaced
with no cost to the resident.
      (3)   Any polycart that is not distributed by the City will not be
collected.
      (4)   The City shall have the authority to refuse collection services for
failure to comply with this chapter.
      (5)   All covers or doors shall be kept closed except when depositing
refuse in the container.
      (6)   If the polycart is damaged, and the resident is determined to be at
fault, the replacement cost of the polycart will be billed to the resident.
   (B)   Size; cleanliness.
      (1)   Each polycart container shall be provided by the City and the
contents shall be bagged appropriately.
      (2)   All polycart containers shall be kept clean and free from
accumulation of any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container
which would attract or breed flies, mosquitoes or any other biting and/or
stinging insects.
   (C)   Plastic bags.
      (1)   Polycart containers shall contain plastic bags securely tied about
the top and of sufficient strength to hold the load when picked up and carried
without supporting the bottom.
      (2)   The occupant of the premises shall be responsible for providing
plastic bags of sufficient strength and mil thickness to hold and maintain the
contents of the plastic bag, and the City shall not be responsible for the
cleaning of trash and garbage resulting from torn and/or ruptured bags
regardless of how the tear or rupture occurred.
   (D)   Businesses, mobile home parks.
      (1)   Unless otherwise exempted by the Public Works Department, business,
industrial, institutional and mobile home parks shall utilize containers
provided by the City and shall be of sufficient capacity and/or quantity to
fully contain all refuse accumulated between collection periods.
      (2)   All covers or doors shall be kept closed except when depositing
refuse in the container.
      (3)   Every person utilizing polycart containers provided by the City
shall have a duty to regularly inspect, secure and notify the City of any
defect in the container which may, by its form, use or location, reasonably
cause damage to any person.
      (4)   The City shall not be liable for any damage or injury to any person
or property based on any user’s failure to inspect, secure or notify the City
of any defect in the container. This requirement may be satisfied by giving
written notice of such defect to the Public Works Department Director, or his
designees.
   (E)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (1)   If it is determined by the City Manager that there are safe
locations for polycarts and polycart services are available, they will be
provided and billed. If it is determined that dumpster services are safer and
more advantageous, they will be provided and billed to the landlord.
      (2)   All covers or doors shall be kept closed except when depositing
refuse in the container.
      (3)   Every person utilizing containers provided by the City shall have a
duty to regularly inspect, secure and correct any defect in the container which
may by its form, use or location reasonably cause damage to any person.
      (4)   The City shall not be liable for any damage or injury to any person
or property based on any users’ failure to inspect, secure or repair any
container. This requirement may be satisfied by giving written notice of such
defect to the Public Utilities Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) (Ord. 2009-28, passed 12-1-2009; Ord. 2020-08, passed 6-
2-2020)
§ 8-4-7 STORING TRASH.
   (A)   Placement of trash in containers. No person shall place any trash in
any street, alley or other public place, on any private property, whether owned
by said person or not, except in proper polycart containers for collection or
under express approval granted by the City, nor shall any person throw or
deposit any trash in any stream or other body of water.
   (B)   Placement of polycart.
      (1)   The container shall be placed at the curb no later than 7:30 a.m.
on the collection day.
      (2)   The polycart shall be placed at the edge of the resident’s
property, next to the street, wheels above the curb, with the handle facing the
resident’s home.
      (3)   There must be a minimum of ten feet of clearance from other
containers, parked vehicles, street and lampposts, trees, mailboxes and other
obstructions.
      (4)   The resident must remove the container from the curb or street
after it is emptied.
   (C)   Unauthorized accumulations; nuisance. Any unauthorized accumulation of
trash on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is hereby
prohibited.
   (D)   Depositing on public ways, occupied premises. No person shall cast,
place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the City any trash in such a manner
that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk,
alley, sewer, parkway or other public place, or into any occupied premises.
   (E)   Violation. The violations of this section shall be punishable by a
fine of up to $100 plus costs, unless the person charged has been previously
convicted once under this section or any of the following sections of this
code: §§
4-3-2,
4-4-2 ,
4-5-8 ,
4-6-8 ,
7-7-2  and
9-9-2  in the last five years, then a violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7) (Ord. 2018-25, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 8-4-8 COLLECTION OF YARD TRIMMINGS AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Yard trimmings.
      (1)   All yard trimmings shall be placed in the weather resistant clear
plastic bags manufactured for the use of yard waste disposal. Said bags shall
be securely tied about the top and of sufficient strength to hold the load when
picked up and carried without supporting the bottom, except in no case shall
such containers, when filled, weigh more than 50 pounds.
      (2)   The occupant of the premises shall be responsible for providing the
appropriate clear plastic bags of sufficient strength to hold and maintain the
contents of the bag and the City shall not be responsible for the cleaning of
debris resulting from torn and/or ruptured bags regardless of how the tear or
rupture occurred.
      (3)   Yard trimmings shall be placed within ten feet of the curb of the
street from which collection is made or at the edge of the roadway where there
is no curb.
      (4)   If the occupant chooses to recycle yard clippings, the occupant may
contact the City and rent a grass clipping polycart for which the sole purpose
is to collect only grass clippings. If the occupant puts nongrass items in the
recycling grass clipping polycart, the occupant will lose the privileges of
renting and using the recycling grass polycart.
   (B)   Refuse.
      (1)   Refuse shall be collected at least once a week in residential areas
and more often as directed by the superintendent of the Solid Waste Department,
and shall be collected from commercial establishments as determined by the
superintendent of the Solid Waste Department.
      (2)   The superintendent of the Solid Waste Department shall authorize
the collection of a reasonable accumulation of refuse from each residence
during a collection period for the standard charge of the use of one polycart.
Additional charges for additional refuse shall be in accordance with the rates
for additional polycarts. If other refuse is collected, additional charges for
such amounts will be charged at the discretion of the superintendent of the
Solid Waste Department. The superintendent of the Solid Waste Department shall
have the authority to refuse to collect unreasonable amounts or to make an
additional charge for such amounts.
      (3)   The removal of any additional refuse may be arranged by contacting
the superintendent of the Solid Waste Department. The items will then be
appropriately removed. These items shall be placed with at least ten feet
clearance from other containers, parked vehicles, street and lampposts, trees,
mailboxes and other obstructions.
      (4)   The removal of wearing material, bedding or other refuse from homes
or other places where highly infectious or contagious diseases have prevailed
should be performed under the supervision and direction of the superintendent
of the Solid Waste Department. Such refuse shall not be placed in polycart
containers for regular collection.
      (5)   Highly inflammable or explosive materials shall not be placed in
polycart containers for regular collection.
      (6)   Collectors of refuse from outside the City who desire to haul over
the streets of the City shall use a watertight vehicle so operated as to
prevent offensive odors escaping therefrom and refuse from being blown, dropped
or spilled.
      (7)   Ownership of refuse materials set out for collection or deposited
in the city landfill shall be vested in the City.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-8) (Ord. 2009-28, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 8-4-9 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE; DISPOSITION.
   When residential refuse accumulations require collection other than
prescribed in §
8-4-4, such as debris, tree limbs, brush or other materials other than refuse,
roofing materials and other solid waste created by or as a result of commercial
or contractual work done to or on the site of the residence, the owner or
occupant may notify the Solid Waste Department of the amount and type of waste
and request an extra trash pick up. Charges for such removal services shall be
as provided by §
2-6E-8.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-9) (Ord. 2009-28, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 8-4-10 REMOVAL OF CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   (A)   Solid waste container required. Any person, firm or corporation having
secured a building permit from the City shall furnish and place on said
premises, a solid waste container of suitable size and capacity to contain all
debris which will result from said construction activities. The solid waste
container shall be placed on the building site prior to the accumulation of any
construction debris, or when it is deemed appropriate by the Code Official.
   (B)   Location within subdivision. Solid waste containers may be permitted
to be located at a designated location within a subdivision for the purpose of
providing service to multiple building sites; provided that construction
activity does not result in the accumulation of debris at any one building
site.
   (C)   Removal of debris; request city service. As the container is filled,
the person, firm or corporation having secured the building permit shall cause
said container to be emptied and its contents removed to an approved sanitary
landfill. Upon request, the City shall provide waste disposal services.
   (D)   Authority to waive requirements. The Code Official may waive the
requirements of subsection (A) above when such construction activity shall not
result in the storage of any debris outside the confines of the building or
structure.
   (E)   Containment of refuse. No person, firm or corporation shall permit any
refuse, rubbish or any other waste materials to blow or be carried from the
premises for which the building permit has been issued.
(1994 Code, § 34-164.5) (Prior Code, § 8-4-10)
§ 8-4-11 USE OF ANOTHER’S TRASH CONTAINER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use another person’s trash container,
whether the container is furnished by the City or by the individual, without
permission of such other person.
(1994 Code, § 34-165) (Prior Code, § 8-4-11)
§ 8-4-12 REQUEST FOR EXEMPTION FROM USE OF SERVICE.
   Any person living in a residence upon which city water or sewer service is
not available, as defined in §§
8-2-2 and
8-3A-5, may request an exemption from using the City’s solid waste collection
service for such residence. Such exemption request shall be made in writing to
the Utility Billing Department. All persons who qualify under this section
shall be exempt from receiving and paying for the City’s solid waste collection
service for such residence.
(1994 Code, § 34-166) (Prior Code, § 8-4-12)
§ 8-4-13 SANITARY LANDFILL; PERMIT; FEES; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall dump or deposit any rubbish, material
or property of any kind at the sanitary landfill of the City without first
obtaining a permit.
   (B)   Refuse originating within city. A permit shall be issued for the
depositing of refuse material or property originating within the City, at the
sanitary landfill upon payment of the fees provided in §
2-6C-2 (A).
   (C)   Refuse originating outside city. A permit shall be issued for the
depositing of refuse material or property originating outside the City, at the
sanitary landfill, upon payment of the fees provided in §
2-6C-2 (B).
   (D)   Unsecured loads. An additional fee will be paid by any user entering
the sanitary landfill of the City with a vehicle containing an unsecured load,
as provided in §
2-6C-2 (C). A load is unsecured when material hauled is susceptible to blowing,
dropping, leaking or otherwise escaping from said vehicles. Particular loads
that will be considered unsecured, unless adequately covered or secured, are:
      (1)   Construction and demolition materials or byproducts;
      (2)   Yard wastes including tree limbs, brush, grass and leaves;
      (3)   Roofing materials;
      (4)   Cardboard, paper and other lightweight materials; and/or
      (5)   Unsecured trash bags subject to blowing off of a vehicle.
   (E)   Yard and tree trimmings originating within city.
      (1)   A waiver on the landfill permit fee for the depositing of loads
containing yard and tree trimmings originating within the City shall be given
to any person furnishing proof of residency within the City, as evidenced by a
current driver’s license, a city issued landfill card or a water bill with a
city address. This waiver shall not be available when the yard and tree
trimmings were collected by a commercial business.
      (2)   Loads containing yard and tree trimmings mixed with trash or other
materials that cannot be processed in the city compost site shall not be
allowed a waiver on the landfill permit fee and shall be charged as provided in
§
2-6C-2(A).
   (F)   Yard and tree trimmings originating outside city.
      (1)   The landfill permit fee for the depositing of loads containing yard
and tree trimmings originating outside the City shall be as provided in §
2-6C-2(B).
      (2)   Loads containing yard and tree trimmings mixed with trash or other
materials that cannot be processed in the city compost site or loads which
contain refuse material shall be charged as provided in §
2-6C-2(B).
   (G)   Petroleum contaminated soil.
      (1)   A permit will not be issued for any petroleum contaminated soil
that originates outside the state.
      (2)   For all petroleum contaminated soil, the generator is responsible
for providing laboratory analysis for benzene, BTEX (benzene, toluene,
ethylbenzene and xylene), TPH (total petroleum hydrocarbons - gas range, diesel
range or both) and flashpoint. For any site that is suspect of containing
leaded gasoline, the generator is also required to test the soil for lead
content. In addition, any contaminated soil with a benzene concentration above
ten mg/kg, or a lead concentration above five mg/kg, the generator shall
perform a TCLP (toxicity characteristic leaching procedure) analysis. All
testing shall be performed by a laboratory approved by the Oklahoma Department
of Environmental Quality (ODEQ).
      (3)   All generators of petroleum contaminated soil will be required to
complete the nonhazardous industrial waste disposal request form provided by
the ODEQ, which shall be submitted to the City for approval 30 days prior to
anticipated delivery. Approval or denial shall be provided to the generator
within 15 days of the receipt date of the request.
      (4)   The generator must present a copy of the approval letter to
landfill personnel upon delivery of the first load of material and every load
thereafter must include a written statement indicating the originating site and
the load number it represents. Any load that is delivered to the landfill that
is unable to provide the required documentation will be rejected.
      (5)   The City will deny any request to dispose of petroleum contaminated
soil with a TPH concentration in excess of 18,000 ppm for the diesel range, and
3,610 ppm for the gas range. The City reserves the right to perform random
testing for any contaminated soil disposed of at the landfill facility. For any
composite sample that is found to be in excess of ten percent (10%) of the
upper TPH limit of the specified range, the generator is responsible for
removing the material within 30 days. For any material that is not removed
within 30 days, the generator will be assessed a fee as provided for in §
2-6C-2(E).
      (6)   Any petroleum contaminated soil shall be delivered to the landfill
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-13) (Ord. 2012-13, passed 6-5-2012)
§ 8-4-14 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision in this chapter shall be a Class A offense.
Each and every day on which a violation shall occur or continues to occur shall
be deemed a separate and distinct offense. Prosecution of such an offense is
not the exclusive remedy or mode of prosecution.
(1994 Code, § 34-177) (Prior Code, § 8-4-14)
CHAPTER 5: STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Section
   
8-5-1   Definitions
   
8-5-2   Stormwater utility service charge and exemptions
   
8-5-3   Collection of service charge
   
8-5-4   Calculation of equivalent service unit (ESU)
   
8-5-5   Stormwater development fee
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater management regulations, see Title 13, Chapter 3
§ 8-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Enid.
   COMMON BILLED. A billing for water and/or sanitary sewer service for a tract
that is billed to the tract as one bill and not directly to the individual
units of that tract.
   EQUIVALENT SERVICE UNIT (ESU). Shall be established at one unit per 5,000
square feet of impervious surface or a portion thereof.
   INDIVIDUAL BILLED. Where billing for water and/or sanitary sewer services
for a tract is by separate billing to the individual units of that tract.
   STORMWATER UTILITY SERVICE CHARGE. The fee levied within the boundaries of
the City for the use of the City’s stormwater drainage facilities.
   USER. The owner, renter or lessee of a tract of land that drains stormwater
to the stormwater drainage system.
(1994 Code, § 11-61) (Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
§ 8-5-2 STORMWATER UTILITY SERVICE CHARGE AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Charges established. There is hereby established a stormwater utility
service charge for the City’s stormwater drainage system at rates hereinafter
established; provided, however, that the service charge shall not be imposed on
the following types of property:
      (1)   City streets, rights-of-way, parks and city owned property;
      (2)   State highway rights-of-way;
      (3)   Railroad rights-of-way; and
      (4)   Undeveloped land.
   (B)   Monthly rate. The monthly stormwater utility service charge rate shall
be charged and collected as provided for in §
2-6E-9.
   (C)   Application for reduced impervious surface rate. Any individually
billed single-family residential user may apply for a reduced impervious
surface rate for the user’s individually billed single-family unit where the
total impervious surface of the tract associated to the unit is less than 1,250
square feet in area. Application shall be made to the Customer Service
Department on forms provided. Review of applications shall be made by the
Engineering Department for completeness and correctness. Upon approval of
application for a unit, the stormwater utility service charge rate for that
unit shall be changed to the reduced impervious surface rate at the next
billing cycle. At such time as the impervious surface area of a unit exceeds
1,250 square feet, the standard rate shall apply and the reduced impervious
surface rate shall not apply.
(1994 Code, § 11-65) (Prior Code, § 8-5-2)
§ 8-5-3 COLLECTION OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Monthly charges; billing; water termination for nonpayment.
      (1)   The stormwater utility service charges herein established for the
use of the City’s stormwater drainage system shall be billed to each user
monthly, along with a bill for water or other utility services and such
penalties as are now or may hereafter be established for other utility service
bills. All collecting agencies authorized by the City to accept payment of city
utility bills are hereby directed to advise customers of the provisions of this
section.
      (2)   In the event that any person, firm or corporation shall tender as
payment of water service, sewer service, collection of solid waste service and/
or stormwater utility service charge for the use of the City’s systems an
amount insufficient to pay in full all of the charges so billed, the payment
shall be credited to the account or accounts in accordance with accounting
procedures used by the Customer Service Department for utility bill payments.
      (3)   The City shall have the right and privilege of discontinuing any
and all utility service to any premises for insufficient payment.
      (4)   In the event that any utility account shall become delinquent,
water services may be terminated by the City until all delinquent charges for
the use of the City’s stormwater drainage system, collection of solid waste
service, sanitary sewer service and water service shall have been paid in full.
      (5)   The provisions for collection provided herein shall be in addition
to any rights or remedies which the City may have under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Billing for stormwater drainage only. In the case of users of real
estate who are not billed for water, sanitary sewer or collection of solid
waste, the owner of the real estate or agent of the owner shall be billed
monthly for the service charges herein established.
   (C)   Saving clause. The invalidity of any provision, clause or portion of
this section or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or
circumstance shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this section or
the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.
(1994 Code, § 11-66) (Prior Code, § 8-5-3)
Cross-reference:
   Notice to user before termination of service, see §
8-1-7
§ 8-5-4 CALCULATION OF EQUIVALENT SERVICE UNIT (ESU).
   (A)   Basis for billing. The equivalent service unit (ESU) shall be
calculated by determination of the amount of impervious surface that exists or
will exist after development of any tract as set out in the definition of
“equivalent service unit (ESU)” in §
8-5-1 . The ESU for certain tracts as calculated by, and on file in, the
Engineering Department of the City shall be the official determination and
shall be used as the basis for billing of the stormwater utility service
charge.
   (B)   Application for determination.
      (1)   Upon the development of a tract or tracts of land, the owner or
user of the same shall make application for a determination of ESU for the
tract.
      (2)   Application shall include the measured square foot area of the site
being developed, amount of impervious surface to be in place at the time of
full development, location, legal description, name of owner or user of the
tract and address.
      (3)   Application shall be made as part of the building or other city
permit application. A building permit shall be required when no other city
permit is applied for.
      (4)   Upon determination of the ESU for the tract, it shall be added to
the official list, and billing for the stormwater utility service charge shall
begin as set out in this chapter.
   (C)   Changes in list. Changes may be made in the official list of ESU, from
time to time, to add tracts not included, add new developments or make
corrections or adjustments.
   (D)   Appeal of determination. Determinations in the official ESU may only
be appealed by the owner or user of the affected tract. Appeals shall be made
in writing to the Director and shall include evidence of an error or
miscalculation in the determination. The Director shall be given two weeks to
review the application and, finding sufficient evidence, may direct the
official list of ESU to be changed. A finding of insufficient evidence or no
response in the two-week period shall be a denial of the appeal.
(1994 Code, § 11-67) (Prior Code, § 8-5-4)
§ 8-5-5 STORMWATER DEVELOPMENT FEE.
   See §§
2-6E-10 and
13-3-10 for charges and regulations.
(1994 Code, § 11-70) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 8-5-5)
CHAPTER 6: NATURAL GAS TRANSPORTATION
Section
   
8-6-1   Definitions
   
8-6-2   License required
   
8-6-3   Fee
   
8-6-4   Licensing requirements
   
8-6-5   Revocation and penalties
   
8-6-6   Duties of franchisee
§ 8-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Enid, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation.
   CONSUMER. Any individual person, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
unincorporated association, trust or public corporation who uses or consumes
natural gas in the City but does not include self-suppliers of natural gas.
   FRANCHISEE. Oklahoma Natural Gas Company or any other entity holding a valid
franchise from the City for the transportation, distribution or sale of gas.
   LICENSE. The rights and privileges granted by the City Manager on behalf of
the City to a consumer to use the public ways for the transportation of natural
gas as provided by this chapter.
   LICENSEE. A consumer granted a license under this chapter.
   PIPELINE SYSTEM. A system of works, pipes, pipelines, apparatus, machinery,
structures, appliances and appurtenances located within the public ways
reasonably necessary for the transportation, distribution or sale of natural
gas.
   PUBLIC WAYS. Any street, alley, avenues, boulevard, lane, park, parkway,
sidewalk, driveway, utility easement, right-of-way and any other public ways,
places, areas or grounds within the corporate limits of the City as now
constituted or may be added hereafter.
   SETTLEMENT PRICE. The inside FERG first of the month price for natural gas
as published for the month of delivery in the “Platts Inside FERG Gas Market
Report” publication, under the heading “Prices Of Spot Gas Delivered To
Pipelines”, Oneok Gas Transportation, LLC - Oklahoma, or a successor
publication or index.
   TRANSPORT GAS. All natural gas transported and/or distributed by the
franchisee, but not sold by the franchisee, through the pipeline system to any
consumer located within the corporate limits of the City.
   VOLUMETRIC RATE. The sum measured in cents per dekatherm “Dth” in accordance
with the provisions of §
8-6-3 . The VOLUMETRIC RATE calculation shall be based on the settlement price
for the month of delivery and multiplied by three percent (3%) to obtain the
volumetric rate for that month.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1) (Ord. 2005-22.5, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 8-6-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No consumer shall receive or deliver gas within the City pursuant to any
pipeline system installed in the public ways, unless the consumer shall hold a
valid license from the City or the company selling the gas has a franchise with
the City. Such license shall be issued for the purpose of granting the licensee
authority to use the public ways. The City Manager is hereby authorized to
issue licenses pursuant to the terms of this chapter and may adopt any
administrative policy or procedures deemed necessary to implement this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2) (Ord. 2005-22.5, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 8-6-3 FEE.
   (A)   In consideration of the issuance of a license by the City, a licensee
shall pay to franchisee, who shall collect and remit such fee on behalf of the
City, a fee for use of the public ways equal to the then current volumetric
rate multiplied by the number of Dth of transport gas distributed to the
licensee for consumption within the City.
   (B)   All fees collected by the franchisee shall be monthly remitted to the
City on or before the twenty-fifth day of each successive month during the term
of the license.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3) (Ord. 2005-22.5, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 8-6-4 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any license issued shall contain the following material terms:
      (1)   The licensee shall pay the fee set forth in §
8-6-3 to franchisee;
      (2)   The licensee shall grant to the City the right to audit at
reasonable times the books and records of the licensee to verify the correct
payment of the fee set forth in §
8-6-3; and
      (3)   The licensee shall assume conjointly with the franchisee or other
party allowed use of the public ways for pipeline installation the
indemnification terms of the franchise or other agreement insofar as the terms
apply to the licenses.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4) (Ord. 2005-22.5, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 8-6-5 REVOCATION AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   A license shall be revocable by the City Council at any time upon a
30-day prior written notice to licensee, with a copy to the franchisee, for
failure to pay fees assessed under §
8-6-3 or upon a finding that the licensee or the third party supplier of
natural gas has violated a state or federal law having a reasonable
relationship to its fitness to conduct business.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be an offense. Any consumer
adjudged guilty of violating any section contained in this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of $100 plus costs, for each offense; and each day of a
continuing violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-5) (Ord. 2005-22.5, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 8-6-6 DUTIES OF FRANCHISEE.
   In addition to the duty to collect and distribute the fees as provided in §
8-6-3, franchisee shall provide a yearly written report to the City accounting
for all volumes of gas transported or distributed through its distribution
system within the corporate limits of the City on behalf of all licensees.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-6) (Ord. 2005-22.5, passed 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 7: NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
Section
   
8-7-1   Definitions
   
8-7-2   Grant of franchise
   
8-7-3   Franchise assignment, sale or lease
   
8-7-4   Use and repair of the public ways
   
8-7-5   Regulation of service
   
8-7-6   Depth of pipelines
   
8-7-7   Duty to move or alter lines
   
8-7-8   Indemnification of grantor
   
8-7-9   Grantee’s rules and regulations
   
8-7-10   Inspection of records
   
8-7-11   Consideration for franchise: franchise fee
   
8-7-12   Grantor’s option to purchase
   
8-7-13   Conditions of franchise
   
8-7-14   Invalidity of ordinance
§ 8-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CALCULATED VALUE. The total transport gas measured in Dekatherms (Dth),
delivered to a transport gas consumer for a billing period, multiplied by the
settlement price to arrive at the value of the transport gas transported by the
grantee for that transport gas consumer.
   CONSUMER. Any individual person, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
unincorporated association, trust, municipality or public or private entity
located within the municipal corporate limits of the City and served by the
grantee through any use of the public ways.
   DEKATHERM or Dth. measurement of natural gas equal to 1,000,000 British
Thermal Units (Btu), or I MMBtu, on a dry basis. Btu shall be computed on a
temperature base of 60°F and a pressure base of 14.73 PSIA.
   DISTRIBUTED or DISTRIBUTION. All sales, distribution or transportation of
natural gas to any consumer or user located within the municipal corporate
limits of the City by the grantee or by others through the grantee’s
distribution system.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. A system of works, pipes, pipelines, apparatus,
machinery, structures, appliances and appurtenances as are reasonably necessary
for the transportation, distribution or sale of gas to consumers.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and privileges granted by the grantor to the grantee
under §
8-7-2 (A).
   FRANCHISE FEE or FRANCHISE FEES. The sum of fees to be paid to the City by
the grantee under §
8-7-11 (A)(1), as consideration for the use of the public ways.
   GRANTEE. ONE Gas, Inc., a corporation acting by and through its Oklahoma
Natural Gas Company division, and its successors and assigns.
   GRANTOR. The City of Enid, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation, hereinafter
also referred to as the “City”.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. Any and all compensation derived by the grantee directly
from the distribution of natural gas to a consumer for any use, including
residential, industrial and commercial purposes, and shall include without
limitation revenues from any operation or use of any or all of the distribution
system by the grantee or others. GROSS RECEIPTS shall not include revenues
received by the grantee from consumers as franchise fee reimbursement nor
volumetric rate fees collected by the grantee and remitted to the grantor in
accordance with §
8-7-11 (A)(2), nor shall gross receipts include revenues from incidental
charges or miscellaneous fees not directly generated by the distribution of
natural gas to consumers, such as, by way of example, connection and
disconnection fees, reconnection fees, customer project contributions, returned
check charges, delayed or late payment charges, temporary service charges and
other such charges.
   INSTALL, OPERATE AND MAINTAIN. To acquire, erect, construct, install,
extend, repair, remove, relocate, replace or otherwise operate and maintain.
   PUBLIC WAYS. Any street, alley, avenue, boulevard, lane, park, parkway,
sidewalk, driveway, public right-of-way and any other public ways, places,
areas or grounds within the municipal corporate limits of the City as now
constituted or as may be added or extended hereafter.
   SETTLEMENT PRICE. The settlement prices for natural gas futures contracts
traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), or any successor exchange
or index, on the fifteenth day of each month as published daily in The Wall
Street Journal (WSJ) on the following business day (or the next day in which a
settlement price is published) for each month of the 12-month period
immediately following.
   TRANSPORT GAS. All natural gas transported by the grantee pursuant to a
transportation tariff arrangement or by other agreement, but not sold by the
grantee though the grantee’s distribution system to any consumer or user
located within the municipal corporate limits of the City.
   TRANSPORT GAS CONSUMER. A consumer which uses transport gas.
   TRANSPORTATION TARIFF ARRANGEMENT. Any arrangement between the grantee and a
consumer pursuant to which natural gas owned by any party other than the
grantee shall be transported, distributed or sold through any portion of the
grantee’s distribution system and under one of the grantee’s tariffs or special
contract for delivery to the consumer.
   VOLUMETRIC RATE. Four percent (4%) of the calculated value of transport gas
as determined by the grantee in accordance with the provisions of this
definition. The VOLUMETRIC RATE calculation form incorporated herein as Exhibit
A shall be used for the calculation of the VOLUMETRIC RATE; provided, the four
percent (4%) multiplier labeled “4% Bundled Franchise Fee Rate” set forth on
Exhibit A shall increase beginning January 1, 2016, in the manner as set out in
§
8-7-11 (A)(1). The calculation shall be completed by the grantee and filed with
the City Clerk upon the grantee’s acceptance of this franchise and annually by
each July following acceptance. The calculation filed upon the grantee’s
acceptance of this franchise shall be effective from the date of such filing
through and including December 31 of the next succeeding calendar year. The
calculation filed by the grantee on July 31 in years following the year of
acceptance of this franchise shall be effective on January 1 of the next
succeeding calendar year through and including December 31 of such calendar
year. The calculation shall be subject to review by the City for mathematical
correctness and the City shall notify the grantee in writing within 45 calendar
days after submission if the City deems such calculation to be incorrect. The
VOLUMETRIC RATE calculation shall be based on the average of the average
settlement prices for the 12-month period beginning in July of the immediately
preceding year and ending in June immediately preceding the July 31
calculation. The average settlement prices for each month during said 12-month
period shall be calculated by adding the settlement prices for such month and
the previous 11 months as published and dividing by 12. The average settlement
prices for each of the 12 months shall then be summed and divided by 12 to
determine the average of the average settlement prices and then multiplied by
four percent (4%) to obtain the VOLUMETRIC RATE; provided, the four percent
(4%) multiplier used to obtain the VOLUMETRIC RATE shall increase beginning
January 1, 2016, in the manner as set out in §
8-7-11 (A)(1), inclusive, of this chapter; provided, in the event the then-
current average of the average settlement prices as calculated above and
entered on the VOLUMETRIC RATE calculation form, attached as Exhibit A (see
line designated on Exhibit A as “settlement price average”), exceeds the Index
price for ONEOK Gas Transportation, L.L.C., that is listed in the issue of
Platt’s “Inside FERC’s Gas Market Report” published on the first business day
of the respective month (“Platt’s Index price”), then the Platt’s Index price
shall be used to calculate the VOLUMETRIC RATE for that delivery month in lieu
of the average of the average settlement prices entered on the VOLUMETRIC RATE
calculation form (Exhibit A) (i.e., for that respective delivery month, the
VOLUMETRIC RATE shall be determined by taking the Platt’s Index price and
multiplying that price by four percent (4%) or the then applicable increased
percentage determined in the same manner set out in §
8-7-11 (A)(2)).
   VOLUMETRIC RATE FEE or VOLUMETRIC RATE FEES. The fee or fees based on the
volumetric rate to be collected and remitted to the City by the grantee as
required by §
8-7-11 (A)(2) of this franchise.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-2 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The grantor hereby grants to the grantee for the term of 25 years from
the passage and voter approval of this chapter and the filing of a written
acceptance by the grantee, the right to enter upon the public ways to install,
operate and maintain a distribution system along, across, over and under the
public ways for the privilege of transporting, distributing and/or selling gas
to consumers and the public generally within the municipal corporate limits of
the City.
   (B)   The ordinance shall have the effect of and shall be a contract between
the grantor and the grantee and shall be the measure of the rights and
liabilities of the grantor as well as the grantee.
   (C)   The franchise granted by this chapter is not exclusive and nothing
herein shall be construed to divest the grantor of its control and regulation
of the public ways.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-3 FRANCHISE ASSIGNMENT, SALE OR LEASE.
   (A)   (1)   The grantee shall not have the right to assign, sell, lease or
otherwise transfer in any manner whatsoever to any third party not affiliated
with the grantee the rights and privileges granted under this chapter except as
hereinafter provided. Any assignment, sale, lease or other transfer by the
grantee of the franchise granted herein to any third party not affiliated with
the grantee shall be ineffective and void unless:
         (a)   The proposed assignment, sale, lease or transfer shall be in
writing;
         (b)   The prospective assignee, buyer, lessee or other transferee
shall agree in writing to accept and become responsible for full performance of
all conditions; covenants, obligations and liabilities contained in this
chapter; and
         (c)   Such writing shall be submitted to the City Clerk of the
grantor.
      (2)   This subsection (A) shall not apply to any arrangement which is in
compliance with the provisions of subsection (B) below. This section shall not
apply distribution or sale to any consumer purchasing, receiving and using
natural gas outside the municipal corporate limits of the City.
   (B)   After the operative date of this chapter, the grantee shall have the
right to enter into or continue to operate pursuant to any “Transportation
Tariff Arrangement” or to enter into or continue any arrangement by which
natural gas owned by any party other than the grantee shall be transported,
distributed or sold through any portion of the grantee’s distribution system
for delivery to any consumer located within the municipal corporate limits of
the City.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-4 USE AND REPAIR OF THE PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   The grantee’s distribution system shall be erected, placed and laid or
otherwise installed, operated and maintained in such a manner as will,
consistent with reasonable necessity, least interfere with other public uses of
the public ways.
   (B)   Before the grantee shall excavate or disturb the surface of any public
way, except in the case of emergency, at least 48 hours notice shall be given
to the City’s Engineer, Public Works Director or other proper authority
designated in writing by the grantor. After such excavation or disturbance, the
grantee shall, with due diligence and dispatch, place the public way in a
condition in compliance with the grantor’s reasonable standards and
specifications.
   (C)   Upon the grantee’s failure to commence or complete any construction,
maintenance or restoration work required by this chapter with due diligence and
dispatch, the grantor may cause such work to be done after written notice to
the grantee, given so as to afford the grantee an opportunity to commence and
complete such work within a reasonable time. The cost of such construction,
maintenance or restoration incurred by the grantor upon the grantee’s failure
shall then be charged and collected from the grantee.
   (D)   The grantor reserves the right to make and enforce reasonable
regulations concerning the construction of the grantee’s distribution system
located within, along, across, over or under the public ways and to reasonably
designate where the distribution system’s works and pipelines shall be placed,
so long as such regulations are not in conflict with the laws of the state and
the United States or the orders, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
Corporation Commission or other regulatory authority having jurisdiction over
the grantee.
   (E)   No main gas line shall be laid in any park without the written
permission from the grantor designating the location and depth of such line.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-5 REGULATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The distribution system of the grantee shall at all times be
installed, operated and maintained in accordance with accepted good practice
and in such condition as will enable the grantee to furnish adequate and
continuous service as required by the orders, rules and regulations of the
Corporation Commission of the state or other regulatory authority having
jurisdiction. The requirements set forth in this section shall not relieve the
grantee of any other obligations set forth herein.
   (B)   In the event that the Corporation Commission of the state or other
state regulatory authority shall be deprived of the authority to regulate the
grantee, then the grantor shall have the authority to set rates, terms and
conditions of service for transportation, distribution or sale of natural gas
by the grantee within the municipal corporate limits of the City.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-5) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-6 DEPTH OF PIPELINES.
   After the operative date of this franchise, the grantee’s main or lateral
lines installed or replaced in public ways shall be installed or replaced at
depths which comply with all applicable state and federal rules and regulations
establishing minimum safety standards for the design, construction, maintenance
and operation of pipelines. Depth shall be measured from the lower of existing
grade or proposed future grade as set forth on plans or other specifications
existing at the time such lines are installed or replaced.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-6) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-7 DUTY TO MOVE OR ALTER LINES.
   (A)   The grantor reserves the right to lay or permit to be laid cables,
electric conduits, water, sewer, gas or other pipelines and to do or permit to
be done any underground work deemed necessary and proper by the grantor, along,
across, over or under the public ways. In permitting such work to be done, the
grantor shall not be liable to the grantee for any damage to the grantee’s
pipeline unless the grantor or its agents or contractors are negligent in
causing said damage.
   (B)   Whenever by reason of establishing a grade or changes in the grade of
any street or in the location or manner of construction of any public way,
cables, electric conduits, water, sewer, gas or other underground structures,
it shall be deemed necessary by the grantor to alter, change, adapt or conform
any portion of the grantee’s distribution system located in the public ways,
such alterations or changes shall be made within a reasonable time by the
grantee, as ordered in writing by the grantor, without claim for reimbursement
or compensation for damages against the grantor: provided, however, that this
section is not intended to require the grantee to alter, change, adapt or
conform any portion of its distribution system without reimbursement or
compensation where the right to locate the same, whether by private right-of-
way grant, utility easement or otherwise, was acquired prior to its location in
the public way.
   (C)   If the grantor shall require the grantee to adapt or conform its
distribution system or in any way to alter, relocate or change its property to
enable any other person, firm, corporation or entity (whether public or
private), other than the grantor, to use the public ways, the grantee shall be
reimbursed by the person, firm corporation or entity desiring or occasioning
such change for any and all loss, cost or expense occasioned thereby.
   (D)   “Person”, “firm”, “corporation” and “entity” as used in subsection (C)
above shall not include regular departments of the grantor, or any trust or
authority formed by or for the benefit of the grantor for public utility
purposes, but shall include any other agency or authority of the City, whether
acting in a governmental or non-governmental capacity, including, but not
limited to, any urban renewal authority, or any other agency or authority,
which as a part of its program clears whole tracts of land within the municipal
corporate limits and relocates citizens for the purpose of urban development or
similar aims.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-7) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-8 INDEMNIFICATION OF GRANTOR.
   The grantee shall indemnify, become responsible for and forever save
harmless the grantor from any and all damages, judgments, reasonable costs and
expenses, including attorney fees, which the grantor may suffer or incur, or
which may be legally obtained against the grantor, for or by reason of the
negligent use, repair or occupation of any public way within the municipal
corporate limits of the City by the grantee pursuant to the terms of this
chapter or resulting from the negligent exercise by the grantee of any of its
privileges or by reason of its carrying on its business in the City (except
where such damages, judgments, reasonable costs and expenses, including
attorney fees, result from the negligence of the grantor or its agents or
contractors); provided, however, that in the event of such claim or claims
being prosecuted against the grantor, the grantee shall have the right to
defend against the same, and to settle or discharge same in such manner as it
may see fit, and the grantor shall give prompt written notice to the grantee of
the presentation or prosecution of such claims.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-8) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-9 GRANTEE’S RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The grantee shall have the right to make and enforce such reasonable rules
and regulations as it may deem necessary for the extension of its facilities,
the sale of its gas and the prudent conduct of its business; provided that such
rules and regulations shall neither be in conflict with the laws of the state,
with the orders, rules or regulations of the Corporation Commission of the
state or other regulatory authority having jurisdiction, nor with the
ordinances and regulations of the grantor insofar as they are consistent with
the jurisdiction of the Corporation Commission of the state or such other
regulatory authority.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-9) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-10 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The grantee shall permit the grantor or its agents to inspect, during
regular business hours, the books, papers and records kept by the grantee in
the ordinary course of business and pertaining to the natural gas business
carried on by it in the City, such as plats, maps and atlases identifying the
grantee’s pipelines in the City, and the books and records necessary to verify
the franchise fee and volumetric rate fee payments provided for in §
8-7-11. Notwithstanding the obligation herein, the grantee shall have the right
to request the reasonable protection of proprietary information and to provide
redacted documents or require the grantor or its agents to enter into such
agreements pertaining to confidentiality as may reasonably protect the
proprietary information of the grantee but which do not unreasonably frustrate
the purposes of this section. The grantor shall promptly notify the grantee in
writing of areas newly annexed into or de-annexed from the corporate limits of
the grantor, and the grantee shall update its records for the purpose of
payment of franchise fees as soon as reasonably practicable after receiving
such notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-10) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-11 CONSIDERATION FOR FRANCHISE: FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   In consideration for the rights and privileges enjoyed under this
franchise, the grantee agrees to pay the grantor as follows:
      (1)   The grantee shall pay the grantor a franchise fee the sum of which
is equal to four percent (4%) of the gross receipts received by the grantee,
per billing period, from the transportation, distribution and sale of natural
gas for domestic, commercial or industrial consumption within the municipal
corporate limits of the City. All sums due from the grantee shall be in lieu of
all other franchise, license or occupational taxes or fees, which may be levied
or attempted to be levied on the grantee by the City; however, beginning
January 1, 2016 and continuing through and including the remaining term of the
franchise, the grantee shall pay the grantor a franchise fee the sum of which
is equal to four and one-fourth percent (4¼%) of the gross receipts received by
the grantee, per billing period, from the transportation, distribution and sale
of natural gas for domestic, commercial or industrial consumption within the
municipal corporate limits of the City. All sums due from the grantee shall be
in lieu of all other franchise, license or occupational taxes or fees, which
may be levied or attempted to be levied on the grantee by the City.
      (2)   The grantee shall pay the grantor a sum equal to the then-current
volumetric rate multiplied by the number of Dth of transport gas transported or
distributed through the grantee’s system within the corporate limits of the
City by the grantee or by any third party to transport gas consumers for
consumption within the City.
   (B)   Should the grantee accept any franchise from any other municipality in
the state in which the grantee provides consumers with natural gas service, and
should such other franchise provide for a franchise fee, exaction fee or other
similar assessment greater than the applicable rate specified above in
subsection (A)(1) above, then the rate provided for herein shall be
automatically increased as of the date of the grantee’s acceptance of the other
franchise to such higher rate.
   (C)   In the event a consumer or a transport gas consumer does not pay a
monthly bill from the grantee in full, the grantee shall prorate its payments
of remissions to the City for sums due on that particular bill so that the
amount actually paid by the consumer or transport gas consumer to the grantee
on the bill is distributed to the grantee for the natural gas commodity and
transportation or distribution service and to the City for sums due on the bill
in proportion to the percentage of the total bill actually paid by the consumer
or transport gas consumer. In the event the grantee actually collects any
outstanding amounts due on a past due, unpaid or partially paid monthly bill to
a consumer or transport gas consumer, then the grantee shall pay the grantor
its proportionate share of sums due to the City on such bill.
   (D)   The grantee’s franchise fee based upon a percentage of gross cash
receipts or a volumetric rate shall be payable monthly on or before the twenty-
fifth day of each month, on its gross cash receipts of the preceding calendar
month.
   (E)   All sums due from the grantee under this section shall be payable
monthly on or before the twenty-fifth day of each month for the preceding
calendar month, which sums shall be in lieu of all other franchise, license or
occupation taxes or fees, which may be levied or attempted to be levied on the
grantee by the City.
   (F)   The City’s Chief Administrative Officer, or his designee, may waive
the volumetric rate fee or any part thereof due from a transport gas consumer,
but such waiver shall only be granted if:
      (1)   The transport gas consumer could otherwise obtain its energy needs
from another source that would not be subject to the fees imposed in subsection
(A)(2) above and sufficient evidence is produced by the transport gas consumer
so as to substantiate such alternative source; and
      (2)   Such alternative source, including all other fees, would be less
than the cost of utilizing the grantee to furnish and transport the gas or
transport alone, as the case may be.
   (G)   The grantee shall update its records for the purpose of franchise fee
payments as soon as reasonably practicable after receiving such notice.
   (H)   In the event the accounting rendered to the grantor by the grantee is
found to be incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount, it
being agreed that the grantor may accept amount offered by the grantee, but the
acceptance thereof by the grantor shall not be deemed a settlement of such item
if the amount is in dispute or later found to be incorrect. The grantee shall
have no obligation, however, to make payment upon transport gas for which the
grantee has not been paid. The grantee shall provide notice to the grantor of
such delinquent accounts within 90 days, and the grantor shall hold the grantee
harmless from the cost or liability for the collection of franchise fees on
such delinquent accounts.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-12) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-12 GRANTOR’S OPTION TO PURCHASE.
   (A)   The grantor shall have the option and right to purchase, take over and
acquire (the “purchase option”), on an as-is, where-is basis:
      (1)   The grantee’s system of pipes, pipelines, meters and connected
apparatus that is located in, across, upon and under the public ways within the
incorporated limits of the City, and that is used for the purposes of
transporting, distributing and selling gas to the City and/or its inhabitants;
and
      (2)   Non-exclusive rights to use all assignable private rights-of-way
and easements in favor of the grantee to the extent such rights-of-way and
easements are located within the incorporated limits of the City and are used
for the purposes of transporting, distributing and selling gas to the City and/
or its inhabitants (collectively the items in subsection (A)(1) above and this
subsection (A)(2) are referred to herein as the “purchase option assets”);
provided that the purchase option assets shall not include any of the
following:
         (a)   The grantee’s office locations;
         (b)   Office equipment (including, without limitation, computers,
computer software, data), books and records and office supplies;
         (c)   Vehicles;
         (d)   Intangible property;
         (e)   Assets used for operations, maintenance, meter reading,
monitoring, construction, customer service, recordkeeping, administrative
functions, emergency identification and response or personnel training;
         (f)   Assets within the incorporated limits of the City that are used
exclusively for the provision of gas service to areas outside such incorporated
limits; and
         (g)   Assets that contribute to or assist in the delivery of gas to or
from systems outside the incorporated limits of the City.
   (B)   The purchase option shall be subject to all the following terms and
conditions.
      (1)   In order to exercise the purchase option, the City must deliver the
following (the “purchase option notice”) to the grantee, in writing, any time
during the next to final year of this franchise, but no later than December 1,
2038:
         (a)   A written notice that the City intends to exercise the purchase
option and the proposed closing date; and
         (b)   A copy, certified by the Chief Administrative Officer of the
City, of resolution(s) of the City’s governing body along with an opinion of
counsel for the City, in form reasonably acceptable to the grantee, stating
that, among other things, the City has taken all necessary measures and has all
necessary authority to consummate the purchase of the purchase option assets
pursuant to the purchase option, reflecting the City’s intent to take over,
purchase and acquire the purchase option assets (the “purchase”).
      (2)   If the City fails to provide the purchase option notice during the
next to final year of the franchise, then the purchase option shall
automatically and immediately terminate without notice.
      (3)   Any purchase by the City shall be on the following terms.
         (a)   The closing date of the purchase shall not be later than the
last day of the term of this franchise.
         (b)   At or before closing of the purchase, the City must pay to the
grantee the following:
            1.   An amount equal to the fair market value (as defined below,
and determined in accordance with the appraisal procedure) of the purchase
option assets as they exist on the date (the “appraisal effective date”) of
appointment of the third appraiser, as set forth in the appraisal procedure
defined below;
            2.   Plus the actual cost or expense of all necessary capital
improvements made by the grantee to the purchase option assets and all
necessary additions to the purchase option assets from and after the appraisal
effective date until the date of closing the purchase; and
            3.   Plus comply with any and all requirements as may be ordered by
any state or federal regulatory agency, including, but not limited to, the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission pursuant to OAC 165:45-3-5 regarding the sale
or disposal of jurisdictional facilities by utility which may include, but may
not be limited to, any and all costs associated with isolating and separating
the grantee’s distribution system within the incorporated limits of the City
that is used at the time to serve customers, current and future, outside the
incorporated limits of the City (the “separate distribution assets”) so that
the purchase can effectively take place without interfering with the grantee’s
rights and/or obligations to such customers and the grantee can serve such
customers without the use of the purchase option assets (collectively the
“additional separation costs”). The additional separation costs shall be
determined using the appraisal procedure.
         (c)   The City shall grant permits, licenses and/or easements to the
grantee in a form acceptable to the grantee, at no cost to the grantee, for
construction, operation and maintenance of existing facilities within the
incorporated limits of the City that may be determined to be the most cost
effective and/or reliable means of serving customers outside the incorporated
limits of the City, in order to not unnecessarily add cost to the grantee’s
other customers in the state.
         (d)   FAIR MARKET VALUE shall mean the fair market sales value of the
purchase option assets that would be obtained in an arm’s length transaction
between an informed and willing buyer (other than a buyer currently in
possession) and an informed and willing seller, in each case under no
compulsion to buy or sell, as determined in accordance with the appraisal
procedure.
         (e)   APPRAISAL PROCEDURE shall mean the following procedure for
determining the fair market value of the purchase option assets and the
additional separation costs (collectively the “values”).
            1.   After the grantee’s receipt of a purchase option notice, the
grantor and the grantee shall consult for purposes of determining the values by
mutual agreement.
            2.   In the absence of such agreement on or before the sixtieth day
after the grantee’s receipt of the purchase option notice, then the values
shall be determined by a panel of three independent appraisers, one of whom
shall be selected by each of the grantor and the grantee on or before the
twentieth day following the expiration of such 60-day period, such selection to
be made by a writing delivered by the selecting party to the other. If one
party appoints an appraiser pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, and
if the other party fails to appoint a second appraiser within the applicable
time limit, the appraisal shall be made by such appraiser. On or before the
tenth day after appointment of the second appraiser, a third appraiser shall be
selected by agreement of the first two appraisers, or if such two appraisers
are unable to agree upon a third appraiser by such date, such appointment shall
be made by the American Arbitration Association (or its successors).
            3.   Each appraiser appointed pursuant to the foregoing procedure
shall:
               a.   Be experienced in rendering appraisals of gas distribution
systems;
               b.   Be of recognized ability; and
               c.   Have no real or apparent conflict of interest with the
grantor or the grantee (for example, and not by way of limitation, no appraiser
shall be a resident or employee of the City nor an officer, employee,
stockholder or director of the grantee).
            4.   If they so desire, the appraisers may jointly retain the
services of one or more third party consultants (the “third party appraiser
consultants”) for the purposes of performing any engineering and technical work
the appraisers desire in order to carry out their duties hereunder, including,
without limitation, the determination of the components of the fair market
value of the purchase option assets and/or the additional separation costs.
            5.   The appraisers shall determine the values and communicate such
determination to the parties in writing (each such writing a “return”) on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the appointment of the last of such
appraisers to be appointed, and such determination shall be final, binding and
conclusive upon the parties, subject to the provisions set forth below. If
three appraisers shall be appointed, the values shall be the applicable
averages of the three appraisals rendered by the appraisers. In the event,
however, that the lowest or the highest of the three appraisals, or both, in
regard to any component of the values (i.e.; the fair market value of the
purchase option assets or the additional separation cost), varies by more than
ten percent (10%) from the middle appraisal, the appraisal or appraisals so
varying shall be disregarded in determining such component(s) of the values.
            6.   Regardless of whether the purchase is actually closed:
               a.   The grantor and the grantee shall share equally the fees
and expenses of the appraisal procedure; and
               b.   The grantor shall pay the costs and expenses related to the
third party appraiser consultants, as incurred.
            7.   Within 30 days of receiving the last return to be received,
the grantor and the grantee shall each serve written notification on one
another regarding whether such party agrees or disagrees with the determination
of the values. Any such written notice of agreement or disagreement shall be
served personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested, on the City
Manager and on the Senior Vice President, commercial or other equivalent
officer of the grantee, respectively. Failure of a party to serve such written
notice of agreement or disagreement within 30 days of receiving such return
shall constitute a waiver of the right of the party not serving the notice in a
timely manner to disagree with the determination, and such determination shall
thereupon become binding on that party. If both parties agree with the
determination, then such determination shall be binding on both parties. If
either party disagrees with the determination of the appraiser(s) and serves
written notice of such disagreement on the other party within 30 days of
receipt of the last return to be received, as provided above, then the parties
shall forthwith proceed to District Court by the filing of an appropriate civil
action for a declaratory judgment by either party against the other party, with
the determination of the values to be decided by non-jury trial. The district
judge making such determination shall use the same criteria for determining the
values as are to be used by the appraiser(s) under the appraisal procedure.
After the judge renders a verdict and the District Court enters judgment on
such verdict, either party shall have such further right to appeal the verdict
and judgment to an appellate court as may be provided by state law. In any such
judicial proceeding, the prevailing party, as determined by the court, shall be
entitled to recover from the other party all legal fees and expenses that were
incurred in connection with such judicial proceeding.
            8.   The decision of the appraisers (or the court, as applicable),
and the purchase, shall be subject to all applicable federal, state and local
laws, or other applicable rules, regulations or orders.
         (f)   After closing of the purchase:
            1.   The grantor shall be responsible for all aspects of licensing
and operating the purchase option assets; and
            2.   The grantor shall indemnify the grantee and hold the grantee
harmless of and from all costs, expenses and liabilities relating to the
ownership or operation of the purchase option assets that arise or are incurred
after the closing.
   (C)   The closing of the purchase shall occur on a date agreeable to the
City and the grantee but in any event no later than 120 days after the receipt
of the last return and, if any judicial proceeding is timely instituted under
subsection (B)(3)(e) above, the final determination and disposition of all
appeals in regard to any such judicial proceeding (such date the “closing
deadline”). The closing shall occur at a location agreed to by both the City
and the grantee.
   (D)   At the closing of the purchase:
      (1)   The grantor shall pay to the grantee, in cash or immediately
available funds, the amounts set forth in subsections (B)(3)(b) and (B)(3)(e)
above;
      (2)   The grantor shall execute and deliver to the grantee such documents
and instruments as the grantee shall reasonably require to grant and transfer
to the grantee the permits, licenses and/or easements described in subsection
(B)(3)(c) above;
      (3)   The grantee shall execute and deliver to the grantor such documents
and instruments as the grantor shall reasonably request to transfer the
purchase option assets to the grantor, as-is and where is, expressly
disclaiming any and all express and implied warranties; and
      (4)   Each of the grantor and the grantee shall execute and deliver such
other documents and instruments as shall be necessary to carry out the intent
of this section.
   (E)   If the grantor is unable or unwilling to close by the closing
deadline, the grantee may, at the grantee’s option, terminate the purchase
option by written notice to the grantor. In any such case, the grantor and the
grantee shall pay the fees, costs and expenses of the appraisal procedure as
set forth in subsection (B)(3)(e) above.
   (F)   Any and all sales (including bulk sales), use, transfer, recording,
value added, ad valorem, privilege, documentary, gross receipts, registration,
conveyance, excise, license, stamp or similar taxes and fees arising out of, in
connection with or attributable to the purchase (the “transfer taxes”) shall be
paid by the City. The City and the grantee shall:
      (1)   Cooperate in timely making all filings, returns, reports and forms
as may be required in connection with the City’s payment of the transfer taxes;
and
      (2)   As appropriate, execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and
delivered, all instruments and certificates necessary to enable the other to
comply with any filing requirements relating to any transfer taxes.
   (G)   The purchase option shall be non-assignable by the City.
   (H)   Nothing contained in the section shall be construed as denying the
City the right of acquiring at any time, the properties and property rights of
the grantee in such manner as may be otherwise provided or permitted by
applicable laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-12) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-13 CONDITIONS OF FRANCHISE.
   This contract, franchise, grant and privilege is granted and accepted under
and subject to all applicable laws and under and subject to all of the orders,
rules and regulations now or hereafter adopted by governmental bodies now or
hereafter having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-13) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 8-7-14 INVALIDITY OF ORDINANCE.
   If any clause, sentence or section of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid, it shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter, which
shall remain valid and effective as if such invalid provision did not exist,
although the parties shall be entitled to a judicial interpretation or
construction of this chapter to address the validation of such provision by
minimal amendment thereof. Further, should any governmental body now or
hereafter having jurisdiction determine that the grantee shall not be permitted
to collect in whole or in part the compensation due the grantor by others for
transport gas as set forth in §§
8-7-3(B) and
8-7-11(A)(2), the grantee shall thereafter have no obligation to make such
payment to the grantor and §§
8-7-3(B) and
8-7-11(A)(2) shall be of no force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-14) (Ord. 2014-29, passed 8-19-2014)
TITLE 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.    BUILDING CODES AND STANDARDS
      
2.    RESIDENTIAL CODE
      
3.    ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
      
4.    ELECTRICAL CODE
      
5.    LIFE SAFETY CODE
      
6.    MECHANICAL CODE
      
7.    FUEL GAS CODE
      
8.    PLUMBING CODE
      
9.    PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
10.    FIRE CODE
      
11.    DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
      
12.    MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS; PARKS
      
13.    OIL AND GAS CODE
      
14.    TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL WORK FORCE HOUSING PARKS
      
15.    SALE OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING CODES AND STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
9-1-1   Building Code adopted
   
9-1-2   Amendments to Building Code
   
9-1-3   The Construction Board of Appeals
   
9-1-4   Existing Building Code adopted
   
9-1-5   Amendments to existing Building Code
Article A: Noise Attenuation Construction Standards for
Vance Air Force Base Airfield Environs Overlay District
   
9-1A-1   Scope
   
9-1A-2   Administration and enforcement
   
9-1A-3   Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
9-1A-4   Adopted specifications
   
9-1A-5   Residential construction guidelines
   
9-1A-6   Construction within certain noise zone
   
9-1A-7   Manufactured buildings
   
9-1A-8   Additions to buildings
   
9-1A-9   Conflict with Building Code
   
9-1A-10   Certification of plans
   
9-1A-11   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-107, 22-113 and 43-102
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 9-1-1 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Building Code (2018 edition), excluding appendix
chapters, and incorporating, by reference, those modification and amendments to
the Code by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, pursuant to 59 O.S.
§ 1000.23, is hereby adopted as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
9-1-2.
   (B)   Where such Code conflicts with other adopted codes, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (C)   Three copies of said adopted Code have been and are now on file in the
Office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-
19-2022)
§ 9-1-2 AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Chapter 1 “Scope And Administration” is hereby amended.
      (1)   Section [A] 101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the
Building Code of the City of Enid, Oklahoma herein after referred to as this
code.
      (2)   Section [A] 105.2 Building (2) is omitted.
      (3)   Section [A] 105.8 Contractors Bond Required. It shall be the duty
of every contractor to include contractors or builders, who shall make
contracts for the erection or construction or repair of buildings for which a
permit is required, and every contractor or builder making such contracts and
subletting the same or any part thereof, to file with the city a bond in the
sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) executed by a surety company, authorized
to do business in the state, payable to the city, and which shall be
conditioned upon compliance by the principal with all ordinances of the city in
reference to building regulations and buildings. Said bond shall further save
and hold the city harmless from any kind of loss, expense, cost, damage, action
or liability of any kind whatsoever, including reasonable attorney’s fees which
the city may suffer or be recovered from the city by reason of any loss,
damage, or injuries sustained, performed by the principal or his agents, in the
use of the streets, alleys, or public property of the city or by reason of
negligence, failure or refusal of the principal or his agents to erect or
maintain proper safety devices, warning signals or barricades about such work
while it is in the process of construction or repair. The bond shall be
approved by the city attorney.
      (4)   Section [A] 109.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. On all buildings,
structures or alterations requiring a building permit, as set forth in section
105, the fee shall be paid as required at the time of filing application in the
amounts provided for in title 2, chapter 6, article F of the Enid Municipal
Code, 2014.
      (5)   Section [A] 109.4.1 Triple Fees. The permit fees are tripled if
work is started prior to the issuance of any permit. Existing equipment change
outs shall be permitted to start prior to inspection and issuance of permit.
The assessment of triple fees shall not prevent further enforcement, such as a
suspension or revocation of a license or permit for excessive violations.
      (6)   Section [A] 113 Construction Board of Appeals.
         (a)   Section [A] 113.1 This board shall hear and decide appeals of
orders, decisions or determinations of the building official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code.
         (b)   Section [A] 113.3 Appointment. There is hereby established a
nine-member board. The board members shall be appointed by the mayor and board
of commissioners.
         (c)   Section [A] 113.4 Membership. Such board shall consist of
individuals with knowledge and experience in the technical codes, such as
design professionals, contractors, and building industry representatives,
specifically as follows:
            1.   One registered design professional who is a registered
architect.
            2.   One registered design professional with structural engineering
experience, or a building contractor.
            3.   One building contractor, or a member from the building
industry.
            4.   One registered design professional with electrical engineering
experience, or a licensed electrical contractor.
            5.   One licensed electrical contractor, or a licensed electrical
journeyman.
            6.   One registered design professional with mechanical experience,
or a licensed mechanical contractor.
            7.   One licensed mechanical contractor, or a licensed mechanical
journeyman.
            8.   One registered design professional with plumbing experience,
or a licensed plumbing contractor.
            9.   One licensed plumbing contractor, or a licensed plumbing
journeyman.
         (d)   Section [A] 113.5. Terms. The terms of office of the board
members shall be for three years. Members are subject to loss of office due to
absences pursuant to Section 1-8-3A and removal for cause by the mayor and
board of commissioners consistent with Section 1-8-38 of the Enid Municipal
Code, 2014.
         (e)   Section [A] 113.6 Quorum and Voting.
            1.   A simple majority of the board shall constitute a quorum.
            2.   In allowing an exception to any provision of this or other
technical codes, the affirmative votes of the majority present shall be
required, and not less than three affirmative votes.
            3.   In modifying a decision of a building official, the
affirmative votes of the majority present shall be required, and not less than
three affirmative votes.
            4.   A board member shall not act in a case in which he has a
personal or financial interest.
         (e)   Section [A] 113.7 Secretary Of Board. The Code Official shall
act as secretary of the board and shall make a detailed record of all of its
proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for its decision, the vote of
each member, the absence of a member and any failure of a member to vote.
         (f)   Section [A] 113.8 Meetings. The board shall meet on call.
         (g)   Section [A] 113.9 Appeals.
            1.   Section [A] 113.9.1 Decision of a Building Official. The owner
of a building, structure or service system, or his duly authorized agent, may
appeal a decision of a building official to the construction board of appeals
if:
               a.   The building official rejected or refused to approve the
mode or manner of construction proposed to be followed or materials to be used
in the installation or alteration of a building, structure or service system.
               b.   The provisions of this code do not apply to this specific
case.
               c.   That an equally good or more desirable form of installation
can be employed in any specific case.
               d.   The true intent and meaning of this code or any of the
regulations thereunder have been misconstrued or incorrectly interpreted.
            2.   Section [A] 113.9.2 Notice. Notice of appeal shall be in
writing and filed within ten after the decision is rendered. A fee shall
accompany the appeal as provided in Section 2-6F-2 of the Enid Municipal Code,
2014.
            3.   Section [A] 113.9.3 Hearing on Appeal. The board shall meet
within ten calendar days after notice of appeal has been received.
            4.   Section [A] 113.9.4 Decision of Board. The board of appeals
shall, in every case, reach a decision without unreasonable or unnecessary
delay. The ruling shall be in writing and shall include the reasons for the
decision. If a decision of the board reverses or modifies an action of a
building official, the Code Official shall immediately take action in
accordance with such decision. The ruling shall be filed in writing in the code
office and shall be open to public inspection. A certified copy of the decision
shall be sent by mail or otherwise to the person who sought the appeal and a
copy shall be kept publicly posted in the office of the Code Official for two
weeks after filing. Every decision of the board shall be final; subject however
to such remedy as any aggrieved party might have at law or in equity.
      (7)   Section [A] 114.4.1 Violation Penalties. No person shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter or the Code herein adopted. of the
publication adopted by or amended in this chapter. A violation shall be
punishable by a maximum fine of one hundred dollars, plus costs; unless the
person has previously been convicted of a violation of one of the technical
codes adopted in this Title, then a violation shall be punishable by a maximum
fine of up to five hundred dollars, plus fees.
   (B)   Chapter 15 Roof Assemblies And Rooftop Structures is hereby amended.
      (1)   Section 1506.4 Declaration Of Policy on Wood Shingles. The mayor
and board of commissioners of the City of Enid has determined that the use of
wood shingles upon a building or structure increases the hazard that the flames
of a nearby fire may spread to that building or structure. Further, the use of
wood shingles may increase insurance rates charged to the owner because of the
susceptibility of said shingles to be damaged as a result of hailstorm events.
Because of these findings, the commission believes that the residents of the
City of Enid should not be compelled by restrictive covenants to use wood
shingles for their homes, building or other structures and that the health,
safety and welfare of said residents should be promoted by making such
requirements invalid and unenforceable. The commission is also aware, however,
that developers and residents of subdivision protected by such restrictive
covenants are vitally interested in maintaining the aesthetic value of their
neighborhood and that any law declaring these covenants to be invalid and
unenforceable should also recognize the interest of these developers and
residents.
      (2)   Section 1506.4.1 Covenants Requiring Use Of Wood Shingles Invalid
And Unenforceable. All parts of all restrictive covenants contained in any
deed, contract, plat or other instrument which requires the use of wood
shingles on any building or structure located within the City of Enid,
Oklahoma, are hereby declared to be invalid and unenforceable effective January
1, 1999.
      (3)   Section 1506.4.2 Option Of Owner Subject To Such Restrictive
Covenants. Pursuant to the declaration set forth in subsection 1506.4, the
owner of any building or structure subject to a restrictive covenant requiring
the use of wood shingles shall have the option to substitute roof covering
materials compatible in color and appearance with the existing roofs in the
same subdivision. The determination of compatibility shall be made by the
architectural, or building committee or other similar committee of each
subdivision; provided, however, that if there is no such committee in existence
for a particular subdivision, then the determination of compatibility shall be
made by the Code Official.
      (4)   Section 1506.4.3 Limitations. The provisions of section 1506.4
shall not be construed to abridge or abrogate the authority of architectural or
building committees of subdivisions in any respect other than the right to
enforce restrictive covenants requiring the use of wood shingles. All other
restrictive covenants shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   Chapter 16 Structural Design is hereby amended. Section 1612.3(a)
Establishment of flood hazard areas. The Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance of
the City of Enid dated April 16, 2019 is found in this Code at Title 13,
Chapter 1 and is incorporated by reference.
   (D)   Chapter 18 Soils and Foundations is hereby amended. Section 1809.5.1.
Extending below the frost line which is 24 inches.
   (E)   Chapter 32 Encroachments Into The Public Right-Of-Way is hereby
amended.
      (1)   Section 3202.2.4. For properties zoned C-4. Awnings, marquees, and
walkway covers may be supported by columns or posts on the sidewalk, when they
are not a hazard to pedestrian traffic, provided the columns or posts are
constructed of weatherproof and maintenance free material. Location of columns
or posts, also type of materials and design of the same shall be approved by
the city.
      (2)   Section 3202.2.5 Sidewalk or Street Obstructions. Public property
shall be maintained free and clear of all obstructions, including among other
things fences, retaining walls, planters, columns, posts, display of wares or
merchandise and sidewalk signs, except for such columns or posts as are
approved in section 3202.2.4.
   (F)   Chapter 33 Safeguards During Construction is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section 3303.8 Definitions.
         (a)   Demolition is the act of razing, dismantling or removal of a
building or structure, or portion thereof to the ground level.
         (b)   Demolition Contractor is any person or firm, which is licensed
by the City of Enid to engage in the business of demolitions.
      (2)   Section 3303.9 Compliance. Contractors and Owners must comply with
40 CFR Part 61, Subpart M. National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air
Pollutants (NESHAP) and the and the Oklahoma Clean Air Act , 27A O.S. §§ 2-5-
101 through 2-5-118 and the Oklahoma Administrative Code, Air Pollution
Control, Title 252. Inspections for asbestos and notice to ODEQ may be
required, and when required proof of compliance will be required prior to
approval of a demotlition permit.
      (3)   Section 3303.10 Time Limit Notwithstanding the provision of 105.3,
the Code Official shall impose a time limit of thirty days as an additional
condition of a permit for completion of demolition work once such work shall
have commenced, provided that for cause extensions of time, for periods not
exceeding thirty days each, may be allowed in writing by the Code Official.
      (4)   Section 3303.11 Protection of the Public Property.
         (a)   Section 3303.11.1 Protection from Moving Equipment. When
necessary to protect pavement curbs, sidewalks, or underground structures,
planks of sufficient size and thickness to prevent damage or injury thereto
shall be laid under the wheels of moving equipment.
         (b)   Section 3303.11.2 Other Precautionary Measures. The Code
Official shall have the power to require the use of other precautionary
measures than those specifically mentioned in this article when necessary to
protect life, property, or public improvements.
         (c)   Section 3303.11.3 Hazardous Materials. If hazardous materials
are discovered, all operations shall cease and the Code Official shall be
notified immediately. No work shall continue until approval is given by the
Code Official. All material classified as hazardous by the Code Official shall
be removed by proper methods as prescribed by rules governing that particular
material (i.e. state health department, state department of labor, ODEQ) and at
the expense of the owner of the property.
      (5)   Section 3303.12 License Required.
         (a)   Section 3303.12.1 Demolition Without A Permit. It shall be
unlawful for any person or firm to demolish any house or other structure, or
engage in the business of a demolition contractor without first obtaining a
license to do so from the City of Enid.
         (b)   Section 3303.12.2 Demolition Contractor. Any person desiring to
engage in business as a demolition contractor shall make application for a
license to do so with the city clerk.
         (c)   Section 3303.12.3 Demolition Contractor License Fee. The fee for
a license required by the provisions of this ordinance shall be three hundred
dollars for the first year or fraction thereof, and fifty dollars per year
thereafter. The license shall expire on June 30 of each year.
      (6)   Section 3303.13 Insurance Required. No demolition contractor’s
license shall be issued until the applicant therefore shall have filed a
certificate of insurance as proof of coverage for general liability in an
amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), arising out of
work performed under a contractor’s license. Such insurance shall be kept in
full force throughout the life of the license.
      (7)   Section 3303.14 Bond Required. No demolition contractor’s license
shall be issued until the applicant therefore shall have deposited with the
city clerk, a cash or surety bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) to be known as a demolition contractor’s bond. Such bond shall be
executed by the demolition contractor and the surety thereon shall be a
corporate surety company authorized to do business in the state of Oklahoma.
The bond shall be in favor of the City of Enid and conditioned that the
licensee shall faithfully and properly conduct such demolition business in
compliance with all ordinances of the city and for the payment of all fines and
penalties imposed for the violation of such ordinances, and for the
indemnification of the city against all damages resulting directly or
indirectly from any injury to persons or property on account of the negligence
of the licensee. Such bond shall be renewed annually concurrently with the
license, and the certificate of such renewal shall be filed with the Code
Official.
      (8)   Section 3303.15 Revocation. A demolition contractor’s license may
be revoked or temporarily suspended by the Code Official upon notice in writing
to the licensee if the contractor has violated any provision of this ordinance.
Such revocation or suspension action shall only occur with the approval of the
city attorney.
      (9)   Section 3303.16 Demolition by Owner. The owner of any building or
structure may demolish his own building or structure upon the issuance of a
permit. The owner shall not be required to obtain a contractor’s license, but
shall otherwise conform to all provisions of this ordinance. Violation of this
ordinance by the owner shall constitute an offense and subject the owner to
penalty provisions specified herein.
      (10)   Section 3303.17 Exceptions. The Code Official may waive the
bonding and insurance requirements of this ordinance when, in his opinion, the
demolition of a particular structure will not pose a danger to the health,
safety, and welfare of the public and such structure is four hundred square
feet or less in size.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-
19-2022)
§ 9-1-3 THE CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The “Construction Board of Appeals”, as further defined in §
9-1-2, is the Board to and hear all appeals of decisions and interpretations of
the Code Official concerning the various technical codes found in this title.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 3-20-2018; Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-
19-2022)
§ 9-1-4 EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Existing Building Code (2018 edition) excluding
appendix chapters, and incorporating by reference those modification and
amendments to the Code by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission,
pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, is hereby adopted as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in §
9-1-5.
   (B)   Where such Code conflicts with other adopted codes, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (C)   Three copies of said adopted Code have been and are now on file in the
Office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-
19-2022)
§ 9-1-5 AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   Chapter 1 Scope and Administration is hereby amended:
   (A)   Section [A] 101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the
Existing Building Code of the City of Enid.
   (B)   Section [A]105.8 Contractors Bond Required. It shall be the duty of
every contractor or builder who shall make contracts for the erection or
construction or repair of buildings for which a permit is required, and every
contractor or builder making such contracts and subletting the same or any part
thereof, to file with the city a bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) executed by a surety company, authorized to do business in the
state of Oklahoma, payable to the city, and which shall be conditioned upon
compliance by the principal with all ordinances of the city in reference to
building regulations and buildings. Said bond shall further save and hold the
city harmless from any kind of loss, expense, cost, damage, action, or
liability of any kind whatsoever, including reasonable attorney’s fees which
the city may suffer or be recovered from the city by reason of any loss,
damage, or injuries sustained, performed by the principal or his agents, in the
use of the streets, alleys, or public property of the city or by reason of
negligence, failure or refusal of the principal or his agents to erect or
maintain proper safety devices, warning signals or barricades about such work
while it is in the process of construction or repair. The bond shall be
approved by the city attorney.
   (C)   Section [A] 108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, electrical,
gas, mechanical, and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a building
permit, as set forth in section 105, the fee shall be paid as required at the
time of filing application in the amounts provided for in title 2, chapter 6,
article F of Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
   (D)   Section [A] 108.4. Work commencing before permit issuance- Triple
Fees. Permit fees are tripled if work is started prior to the issuance of any
permit. Existing equipment change outs shall be permitted to start prior to
inspection and issuance of permit. The assessment of triple fees shall not
prevent further enforcement, such as a suspension or revocation of a license or
permit for excessive violations.
   (E)   Section [A] 112 Construction Board of Appeals. This board shall hear
and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations of the building
official relative to the application and interpretation of this code. See, 9-1-
2, for the regulations that govern this Board.
   (F)   Section [A] 113.4 Violation Penalties. No person shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter or the Code herein adopted of the publication
adopted by or amended in this chapter. A violation shall be punishable by a
maximum fine of one hundred dollars, plus costs; unless the person has
previously been convicted of a violation of one of the technical codes adopted
in this Title, then a violation shall be punishable by a maximum fine of up to
five hundred dollars.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-
19-2022)
ARTICLE A: NOISE ATTENUATION CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
AIRFIELD ENVIRONS OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 9-1A-1 SCOPE.
   Environmental noise affects substantial amounts of land area within the
United States. Through many years of research by a number of agencies and
groups, it has been determined that exterior noise may be isolated and reduced
in living and working environments through design and construction techniques,
and noise attenuation, which selectively decrease the sound entering occupied
structures from the outside. The noise reduction required is based upon
calculations of noise exposure, with the index of noise exposure including the
noise level, its duration, frequency of occurrence and time of day of the
occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-1) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-2 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Planning Administrator, or his designee, shall administer and enforce
these regulations. Regular inspections shall be made to ensure construction is
performed to the specifications submitted and approved. Whenever it appears
that variations from the sound attenuation features in the approved plan, poor
sealing methods or defective workmanship are employed, the Planning
Administrator shall immediately issue a stop work order. Construction shall not
continue until the defects listed by the Planning Administrator have been
remedied.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-2) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-3 CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   When it is alleged that there is an error in any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Planning Administrator in the enforcement
of any provision of this article, the person aggrieved may appeal to the
Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals. Said appeal shall be made in
writing to the Planning Administrator no later than ten calendar days from the
date of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-3) (Ord. 2008-21, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 9-1A-4 ADOPTED SPECIFICATIONS.
   The specifications provided for in the April 2005 “Guidelines for Sound
Insulation of Residences Exposed to Aircraft Operations” prepared by Wyle
Research & Consulting for the Department of the Navy, or latest revision
thereof, are made part of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-4) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-5 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION GUIDELINES.
   Residential construction shall comply with “Guidelines for Sound Insulation
of Residences Exposed to Aircraft Operations”, April 2005 Wyle research report.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-5) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-6 CONSTRUCTION WITHIN CERTAIN NOISE ZONE.
   Plans and specifications for construction of a noise sensitive structure
within the DNL 80+ noise zone shall be prepared by a licensed architect and
shall include a written statement from the architect certifying that the
construction specifications will provide an appropriate level of noise
attenuation. Noise attenuation may be achieved by any combination of building
design, choice of building materials and execution of construction details in
accordance with established architectural and acoustic principles.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-6) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-7 MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS.
   No dwelling or other building constructed “off site” (manufactured or moved
in) shall be permitted within any noise zone unless such construction meets or
exceeds the standards for noise level reduction (NLR) required of a “site
built” dwelling or building as specified in the November 1989 Wyle research
report WR 89-7. This section shall not apply to any mobile home or mobile home
park lawfully existing prior to the effective date of this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-7) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-8 ADDITIONS TO BUILDINGS.
   The noise level reduction (NLR) standards specified in the November 1989
Wyle research report WR 89-7 herein shall apply to any addition or enlargement
of an existing building if such addition or enlargement contains an “occupiable
space”, as defined in Chapter 2 of the current edition of the International
Building Code (IBC). The plans for nonresidential buildings shall be prepared
by a licensed architect and shall include a written statement from the
architect certifying that the construction specification will provide an
appropriate level of noise attenuation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-8) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-9 CONFLICT WITH BUILDING CODE.
   Where strict adherence to the standards in §
9-1A-5 would result in a violation of the city Building Code, alternative
requirements to meet the noise level reduction standard shall be approved by
the Planning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-9) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-10 CERTIFICATION OF PLANS.
   The Planning Administrator shall not issue a building permit for any
building or structure within the noise zones established by this article,
unless the plans and specifications accompanying the application for said
permit comply with the minimum noise level reduction standards provided with
the Airfield Environs Overlay District.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-10) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 9-1A-11 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, partnership, firm, association or entity who shall
violate any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a Class C
offense. Each day’s continued violation of any of the provisions hereof shall
constitute a separate offense and may be chargeable as such.
(Prior Code, § 9-1A-11) (Ord. 04-04, passed 1-6-2004)
CHAPTER 2: RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
   
9-2-1   International Residential Code adopted
   
9-2-2   Amendments
§ 9-2-1 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption.
      (1)   Pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, the city hereby adopts the
International Residential Code (IRC), adopted and amended by the Oklahoma
Uniform Building Code Commission, excluding appendix chapters, for the purpose
of providing minimum standards for the construction, alteration, equipment, use
and occupancy of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses. Going forward,
adoption of a new edition of this Code by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code
Commission with amendments, shall take effect 30 days after the City Code
Official places public notice of the adoption in the newspaper.
      (2)   Where such code conflicts with other adopted codes, the more
restrictive shall apply.
      (3)   Three copies of said adopted code have been and are now on file in
the Office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Violation. No person shall violate any of the provisions of the
publication adopted in subsection (A) above. A violation shall be punishable by
a fine of $100 plus costs and fees; unless the person has previously been
convicted of a violation of one of the building regulations found in this title
(technical codes) within the last three years, then a violation shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $200 plus costs and fees; or unless the person
has previously been convicted of a violation of one of the technical codes
twice or more within three years, then a violation shall be punishable by a
fine of up to $500 plus costs and fees.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 2016-28, passed 12-6-2016; Ord. 2024-08, passed 7-
16-2024)
§ 9-2-2 AMENDMENTS.
   The International Residential Code, 2015 edition, is hereby amended in the
following respects: All amendments and modifications to the International
Residential Code (IRC), 2015 edition, as adopted by the Oklahoma Uniform
Building Code Commission, are hereby adopted by the City and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 2016-28, passed 12-6-2016)
CHAPTER 3: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
Section
   
9-3-1   International Energy Conservation Code adopted
§ 9-3-1 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted for the purpose of providing minimum
standards for energy conservation that certain energy conservation code known
as the International Energy Conservation Code, 2006 edition. Where such Code
conflicts with other adopted codes, the more restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   Violation. No person shall violate any of the provisions of the
publication adopted in subsection (A) above.
(2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 2001-14, passed 6-5-2001; Ord. 2004-33,
passed 10-5-2004; Ord. 2008-12, passed 4-15-2008)
CHAPTER 4: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
9-4-1   Electrical Code adopted
   
9-4-2   Amendments to Electrical Code
§ 9-4-1 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. Pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, the City hereby adopts the
National Electrical Code currently adopted and amended by the Oklahoma Uniform
Building Code Commission excluding informative annexes, and incorporating by
reference those modification and amendments to the Code by the Oklahoma Uniform
Building Code Commission, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
9-4-2. Going forward, adoption of a new edition of this Code by the Oklahoma
Uniform Building Code Commission, with amendments, shall take effect 30 days
after the City Code Official places public notice of the adoption in the
newspaper.
      (1)   Where such Code conflicts with other adopted codes, the more
restrictive shall apply.
      (2)   Three copies of said adopted Code have been and are now on file in
the Office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Violation. No person shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or the Code herein adopted of the publication adopted by or amended in
this chapter. A violation shall be punishable by a maximum fine of $100 plus
costs; unless the person has previously been convicted of a violation of one of
the technical codes adopted in this title, then a violation shall be punishable
by a maximum fine of up to $500 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-13, passed 4-
19-2022; Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-16-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see 11 O.S. § 14-107
§ 9-4-2 AMENDMENTS TO ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Article 90 Introduction is hereby amended to add:
      (1)   90.10 Exemption. All public utilities engaged in the furnishing of
electricity, operating under a franchise with the City of Enid, shall be exempt
from compliance with this chapter insofar as the same involves property owned
or controlled by such utility.
      (2)   90.11 Electrical Inspector.
         (a)   Qualifications: The minimum qualifications for electrical
inspector are as set forth in Oklahoma Statutes, which is three years of active
experience in the electrical industry. In creating job descriptions and open
position, the city manager may require additional qualifications.
         (b)   Duties: It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to
enforce all laws and ordinances relating to the electrical code, to issue
permits, and make such inspections as may be required.
         (c)   Right of Entry for Inspection: Subject to constitutional
limitations, the inspector or his authorized representative shall have the
right to enter any premises for the purpose of inspecting the same, at such
time as may be reasonably necessary to protect the public health.
      (3)   90.12 Permits and Inspections.
         (a)   Permit Required; Exceptions.
            1.   No electrical work, unless excepted in this section, shall be
undertaken prior to issuance of a permit therefore by the electrical inspector.
            2.   A permit shall not be required for:
               a.   Minor repair work, such as repairing flush and snap
switches, replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare
joints, and replacing drop cords.
               b.   Maintenance and repairs on the premises of a person
regularly employing journeymen electricians for that purpose.
         (b)   Permit Application, Issuance and Fee. An electrical permit shall
issue after application has been made therefore, and upon the forms prescribed
by the city, showing that the ordinances of the city will be complied with, and
upon payment of the fee provided for in title 2, chapter 6, article F of the
Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
         (c)   Inspection and Concealment of Certain Wires. All wires which are
to be hidden from view shall be inspected before concealment, and the person
doing the electrical work shall notify the electrical inspector to make the
required inspection before such wires are concealed, and shall not conceal the
same until permission has been obtained in writing from the electrical
inspector.
         (d)   Inspection Fee. A fee shall be paid to the city for each
electrical inspection to be made as provided in title 2, chapter 6, article F
of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
         (e)   Certificate of Inspection or Service Permit. Upon the completion
of wiring in any building, structure or place, the licensee installing the same
shall notify the electrical inspector, who shall cause the installation to be
inspected, and, if found to be in compliance with this chapter, shall issue a
certificate of inspection, or service permit, authorizing connection to the
electrical circuit, and the energizing of the installation. No such connection
or energizing shall be made until such a certificate or service permit is
issued.
         (f)   Triple Fees Authorized. Permits fees are tripled if work is
started prior to the issuance of any permit. Existing equipment change outs
shall be permitted to start prior to inspection and issuance of permit. The
assessment and/or payment of triple fees shall in no way prevent further
penalty, such as suspension or revocation of a license and/or permit for
excessive repetition of violations.
      (4)   90.13 Electricians.
         (a)   State License Required: Any electrical contractor, journeyman
electrician or apprentice electrician who performs work in the city is required
to have an Oklahoma license.
         (b)   Registration Required; Marking of Vehicles:
            1.   No person, as principal, agent, manager, or employee, shall
conduct, manage or carry on the trade, calling or business of an electrical
contractor, or do any electrical work of any kind or description in the city,
for which an electrical permit is required, without registering with the city
clerk and securing a registration from the city. The city clerk shall issue
such registration upon presentation of a valid electrical contractor’s license
issued by the state of Oklahoma and upon payment of the required fee and
posting of bond, where required.
            2.   All vehicles used in electrical work shall have signs stating
the name of the contractor and the state registration number in letters at
least two inches (2”) high affixed to both sides of the vehicle.
         (c)   Issuance of Registration.
            1.   The city clerk shall issue an electrical contractor’s
registration upon presentation of the state license, bond where required, and
payment of the annual fees as established in title 2, chapter 6, article F of
this Code.
            2.   All registrations shall expire July 31 of the following year
after their issuance. Penalty fees shall be charged for late registration as
established in title 2, chapter 6, article F of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
            3.   All services performed by utility companies operating under
franchise agreements, and the employees of such utility companies, are hereby
exempt from subsection 3a of this section for work done under the supervision
and direction of said utility companies.
         (d)   Revocation of Registration.
            1.   Subsequent to a hearing, conducted as hereinafter provided in
this subsection, the construction board of appeals may recommend the suspension
or revocation of an electrical contractor registration issued pursuant to this
code to the mayor and board of commissioners if it has reason to believe or
finds that the holder has:
               a.   Made a material misstatement in the application for any
registration or renewal thereof;
               b.   Loaned or illegally used his registration;
               c.   Violated any provisions of this code; or
               d.   Committed any act specified in this code as grounds for
suspension and/or revocation of any registration.
            2.   Complaints against any person registered under this chapter
may be filed with the board by the office of the electrical inspector. Such
complaint shall be investigated by or before the board. All complaints must be
in writing, signed and duly verified by the office of electrical inspector.
This procedure shall not be exclusive and shall not preclude the filing of a
complaint in the municipal court.
            3.   The person against whom a complaint is signed shall be
entitled to a public hearing before the board. Within ten (10) days after the
filing of a written complaint, the board shall serve written notice of the
complaint upon the registered person. The notice shall be served either
personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the notice is
served personally, it must be served at least ten (10) days prior to any
scheduled hearing. If the notice is served by mail, it must be postmarked at
least ten (10) days prior to any scheduled hearing. The notice shall include:
               a.   A statement of the time, place and nature of the hearing;
               b.   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under
which the hearing is to be held;
               c.   A reference to the particular sections of the code and
rules involved;
               d.   A copy of the complaint;
               e.   A statement that the accused has a right to a public
hearing in his defense at which time he may respond to the allegations in the
complaint by his testimony, the testimony of witnesses, or other admissible
evidence;
               f.   A statement that the individual has a right to be
represented by legal counsel and a right to confront his accusers; and
               g.   A statement that, based upon the evidence presented at the
hearing, the board shall decide to either dismiss the complaint or recommend
suspension or revocation of the registration.
            4.   The board, in its hearing, shall follow the rules of evidence
of the state. All writings or documents admitted into evidence shall become
part of the record of the proceedings. A party or members of the board may
conduct direct and cross examinations required for a full and true disclosure
of the facts. After all evidence has been submitted, the board shall vote to
either dismiss the complaint or recommend to the mayor and board of
commissioners suspension or revocation of the registration. A recommended
suspension shall include a recommendation for the period of time during which
the registration is to be suspended; provided, however, that a registration
cannot be suspended for a period of time exceeding six (6) months.
      (5)   90:14 Construction Board of Appeals. This board shall hear and
decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations of the building official
relative to the application and interpretation of this code. See, 9-1-2, for
the regulations that govern this Board.
      (6)   90:15 Violation. No person shall violate any of the provisions of
this Code. A violation shall be punishable by a maximum fine of one hundred
dollars, plus costs; unless the person has previously been convicted of a
violation of one of the technical codes adopted in this Title, then a violation
shall be punishable by a maximum fine of up to five hundred dollars, plus
costs.
   (B)   Article 100 Definitions is hereby amended to add the following
definitions.
      (1)   Electrical Contractor or Employing Electrician: Any person engaged
in the business of wiring, rewiring, installing, repairing or altering any
electrical wiring, or installing or repairing any electrical apparatus,
electrical appliances, or electrical equipment.
      (2)   Electrical Dealer: Any person engaged in the business of selling or
offering for sale electrical materials, devices, apparatus and electrical
apparatus and electrical appliances that are not installed by such persons.
      (3)   Electrical Equipment: Any electrical wires, appliances, apparatus
or electrical construction of any kind whatsoever, installed in or used in or
about any building or other structure in the city.
      (4)   Electrical Inspector: The Code Official that enforces this code,
issues permits and does inspections required by this code.
      (5)   Electrical Work: Any construction, installation, maintenance or
repair of electrical conductors and equipment installed within or on private
and public buildings and other premises, including mobile homes, travel
trailers, yards, carnival and parking lots, industrial substations, and the
conductors that connect the installations to a supply of electricity, and other
outside conductors adjacent to the premises.
      (6)   Electrician’s Apprentice: A person other than a master or
journeyman electrician, who, as his principal occupation, is engaged in
learning and assisting in electrical wiring and electrical work, but must be in
the company of a licensed master electrician or electrical contractor and must
work under the immediate supervision and direction of and in the presence of a
master or journeyman electrician.
      (7)   Journeyman Electrician: Any person in the employ of an electrical
contractor or employing contractor, actually engaged in the work of wiring,
rewiring, installing, repairing or altering any electrical wiring, or
installing or repairing any electrical apparatus or electrical appliances.
      (8)   Master Electrician: Any person who has the qualifications of an
electrician and is familiar with the construction of electrical wiring and
apparatus, and the hazards involved, and who does the actual work himself, or
through journeyman electricians; the term includes contracting or employing
electrician.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-13, passed 4-
19-2022)
CHAPTER 5: LIFE SAFETY CODE
Section
   
9-5-1   Short title
   
9-5-2   Life Safety Code adopted
   
9-5-3   Appeals
§ 9-5-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Life Safety Code of the
City of Enid”.
(1994 Code, § 7-96) (Prior Code, § 9-5-1)
§ 9-5-2 LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted and enacted by the City for the
purpose of establishing minimum requirements that will provide a reasonable
degree of safety from fire in buildings and structures, that certain code known
as the Life Safety Code, NFPA 101, as published by the National Fire Protection
Association, Incorporated, being particularly the 2003 edition thereof and the
whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended, of which Code not less than three copies have been and are
now filed in the Office of the City Clerk and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated and enacted as fully as if set out at length herein; the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the City.
   (B)   Violation. No person shall violate any of the provisions of the
publication adopted in subsection (A) above.
(1994 Code, § 7-97) (Prior Code, § 9-5-2) (Ord. 2001-14, passed 6-5-2001; Ord.
2004-33, passed 10-5-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see 11 O.S. § 14-107
§ 9-5-3 APPEALS.
   Whenever the City shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Life
Safety Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Life Safety
Code have been wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the City to the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals of the City
within 30 days from the date of the decision of the appeal.
(1994 Code, § 7-98) (Prior Code, § 9-5-3) (Ord. 2001-14, passed 6-5-2001)
CHAPTER 6: MECHANICAL CODE
Section
   
9-6-1   Mechanical Code adopted
   
9-6-2   Amendments to Mechanical Code
§ 9-6-1 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Mechanical Code (2018 edition), excluding appendix
chapters, and incorporating by reference those modification and amendments to
the Code by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, pursuant to 59 O.S.
§ 1000.23, is hereby adopted as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
9-6-2.
   (B)   Where such Code conflicts with other adopted codes, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (C)   Three copies of said adopted Code have been and are now on file in the
Office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-1) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-10, passed 4-
19-2022)
§ 9-6-2 AMENDMENTS TO MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Chapter 1 Scope And Administration is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section [A] 101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the
Mechanical Code of the City of Enid, Oklahoma herein after referred to as this
code.
      (2)   Section 103.5 Mechanical Contractors.
         (a)   State License Required: Any mechanical contractor, mechanical
journeyman, mechanical apprentice or sheet metal worker who performs work
within the city is required to have a state license. All work on boilers shall
be inspected by the State of Oklahoma Department of Labor Inspectors.
         (b)   Registration Required:
            1.   No person shall work at the occupation or engage in the
business of installing, altering, replacing, or repairing any mechanical
equipment or apparatus within the city without registering with the city clerk
and securing a mechanical contractor registration. The city clerk shall issue
such registration upon presentation by the applicant of a valid license or
registration issued by the state of Oklahoma and upon payment of the required
fees. In addition, no person shall install, replace or repair gas piping unless
such person is licensed in accordance with the mechanical licensing act of the
state of Oklahoma and duly registered with the city or is licensed and
registered as a plumbing contractor pursuant to the laws of this state and the
city.
            2.   The fees for such registrations shall be as provided in title
2, chapter 6, article F of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
            3.   All registrations shall expire July 31 of each year.
            4.   Any person in the city who shall do work specified in this
chapter requiring a permit shall be registered annually. Failure to renew
within thirty (30) days of expiration will subject the registrant to a daily
penalty fee for each day or part thereof over the thirty (30) days as provided
in title 2, chapter 6, article F, of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
Registration shall be in the office of the city clerk.
            5.   Certificates of registration shall be issued to registrants
who shall carry the same upon their persons at all times while working. The
mechanical inspector shall have the right to demand a current registration
certificate from any workman.
            6.   Marking of Vehicles: All vehicles used in mechanical work
shall have signs stating the name of the contractor and the state license
number in letters at least two inches (2”) high, affixed to both sides of the
vehicle.
         (c)   Inactive Contractors: Any person holding a valid contractor’s
state license, and not engaged in the business of contracting, may register as
inactive for an annual fee as provided in title 2, chapter 6, article F of the
Enid Municipal Code, 2014. Said inactive contractor may work only as a
journeyman until registered as a contractor. Failure to renew registration
annually as an inactive contractor will subject the individual to the licensing
requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   Exemptions; Utility Companies. All services performed by utility
companies operating under a franchise agreement, and the employees of such
utility companies, are hereby exempt from the licensing provisions of this
chapter for work done under the supervision and direction of said utility
companies.
      (3)   Section 106.5.2 Fee Schedule. All work requiring a permit or
inspection under the mechanical code shall be paid as required at the time of
filing application in the amounts provided for in title 2, chapter 6, article F
of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
      (4)   Section 106.5.2.1 Triple Fees Authorized. Permit fees are tripled
if work is started prior to the issuance of any permit. Existing equipment
change outs shall be permitted to start prior to inspection and issuance of
permit. The assessment and/or payment of triple fees shall in no way prevent
further penalty, such as suspension or revocation of a license for excessive
repetition of violations.
      (5)   Section 106.5.3. Fee Refunds.
         (a)   The Code Official shall authorize the refunding of the fees as
follows:
            1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder that was erroneously
paid or collected.
            2.   Not more than 75% of the permit fee paid where work has not
been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
            3.   omitted.
         (b)   The Code Official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee
paid, except upon written application filed by the original permitee not later
than 180 days after the payment.
      (6)   Section 107.1.1 Entry Powers: Subject to constitutional
limitations, it shall be unlawful for the owner or user of any mechanical
equipment to refuse to permit inspection of same after reasonable advance
notice by the mechanical inspector, or to prevent the entry of said inspector
for that purpose at any reasonable time, and after proper introduction and
presentation of proper credentials.
      (7)   Section 108.4 Violation Penalties: No person shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter or the Code herein adopted or the publication
adopted by or amended in this chapter. A violation shall be punishable by a
maximum fine of one hundred dollars, plus costs; unless the person has
previously been convicted of a violation of one of the technical codes adopted
in this Title, then a violation shall be punishable by a maximum fine of up to
five hundred dollars, plus costs.
      (8)   Section 108.5. Start Work Orders: Upon notice from the Code
Official that mechanical work is being performed contrary to the provisions of
this Code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall immediately
cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall give the owner of the
property, or to the owner’s authorized agent, or the person doing the work. The
notice shall state the conditions under which work is authorized to resume.
Where an emergency exists the Code Official shall not be required to give a
written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any
work on the system after having been served with a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove the violation or unsafe
condition, shall be in violation of this Code which shall be punishable by a
maximum fine of up to five hundred dollars, plus costs.
      (9)   Section 109 Means of Appeals:
         (a)   Section 109.1 Construction Board of Appeals. This board shall
hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations of the building
official relative to the application and interpretation of this code. See, 9-1-
2, for the regulations that govern this Board.
         (b)   Section 109.2 through Section 109.7 are omitted.
   (B)   Chapter 2 Definitions is hereby amended: Section 202 General
Definitions to add:
      (1)   Alteration: A change in a mechanical system that involves an
extension, addition or change to the arrangement, type or purpose of the
original installation. Also, a change in the function, components, or both.
      (2)   Maintenance: The performance of repairs designed to avoid
shutdowns. In regard to any installations incidental to maintaining such
equipment in a running condition, said installations shall be confined to the
replacement of parts broken, worn or defective, of a nature contained in or
upon major units and shall not permit the operator to install units,
compressors, or any major portion of such equipment, nor shall such persons be
permitted to perform any work in or upon said equipment which would, by reason
of the extent of such repairs, in fact, constitute an actual reinstallation
job.
      (3)   Mechanical Apprentice: Any person engaged in the work of
installing, altering, or repairing equipment or apparatus herein regulated
within the city who is not licensed, but working under the direct supervision
of a licensed mechanical journeyman or contractor, and is in the employ of a
mechanical contractor of the several classes herein defined.
      (4)   Mechanical Contractor (Limited): Any person, firm, or corporation
engaged in the business of installing, replacing, altering, or repairing
cooling units not exceeding twenty-five (25) horsepower and/or heating systems
not exceeding five hundred thousand (500,000) BTUs per hour input and/or
including boilers without size limitations.
      (5)   Mechanical Contractor (Unlimited): Any person engaged in the
business of installing, replacing, altering, or repairing all mechanical
equipment within the scope of this chapter.
      (6)   Mechanical Dealer: Any person engaged in the business of selling or
offering for sale mechanical equipment, devices, apparatus, and appliances that
are not installed by such person.
      (7)   Mechanical Equipment: All of the several types and kinds of air
conditioning (including heating) equipment and refrigeration equipment,
including, but not limited to, furnaces, boilers, gas fired appliances,
ventilating apparatus, incinerators, pressure vessels, and all fittings, vents,
ductwork and safety or regulating devices appertaining thereto.
      (8)   Mechanical Installation: The initial physical location of a system
or unit at a given place and the preparation of same for use or service. A
replacement of existing equipment with equipment of a different size or type
shall be deemed a new installation if any existing utility services must be
altered in capacity, or otherwise, to serve such equipment.
      (9)   Mechanical Journeyman (Limited): Any person in the employ of one of
the two (2) classes of mechanical contractors as provided herein, and licensed
by the state and actually engaged in the work of installing, altering, or
repairing cooling systems not exceeding twenty five tons and/or heating systems
not exceeding five hundred thousand (500,000) BTUs per hour input.
      (10)   Mechanical Journeyman (Unlimited): Any person in the employ of one
of the two (2) classes of mechanical contractors as provided herein, and
licensed by the state, and actually engaged in the work of installing,
altering, or repairing mechanical equipment.
      (11)   Repair: The removal and/or replacement of portions of a system or
unit without disconnecting supplying utilities; the purpose of such removal and
replacement may be for cleaning, adjustment, or the introduction of new
components of like type and size.
      (12)   Replacement: The physical disconnection of a system or portions of
a system or unit from the utilities supplying the same, and the insertion of a
new system, unit or portion of either, with approved components of like type
and size, and the reconnection of the utility supply lines.
      (13)   Sheet Metal Worker: Any person engaged in the occupation of
installing, replacing, altering, or repairing supply, exhaust, return,
ventilation, and underslab duct systems, and any apparatus installed in
connection therewith.
   (C)   Chapter 3 General Regulations is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section 301.10.1 Disconnecting Means: A disconnecting means shall
be installed within sight and easy reach in the ungrounded leads of each power
circuit to electrically operated components. The disconnecting means shall in
no case be installed farther than 25 feet from the service side of the
equipment. On new construction a GFCI protected 115-volt outlet shall be
installed within sight, but not to exceed 25 feet from the service side of
ground level equipment or 6 feet from attic or crawl space located equipment.
      (2)   Section 301.11 Plumbing Connections. Potable water supply and
building drainage system connections to equipment and appliances regulated in
this code shall be in accordance with the International Plumbing Code.
Additionally, no wastewater from cooling or air conditioning systems shall be
permitted to drain or discharge upon any street or alley. All systems
discharging twenty-five (25) gallons or more water per minute shall be
connected with the storm sewer system of the city. Systems discharging less
than twenty-five (25) gallons of water per minute may be connected with the
sanitary sewer system if no storm sewer connection is available.
   (D)   Chapter 6 Duct Systems is hereby amended: Section 603.8 Underground
ducts. Ducts shall be approved for underground installation. Underground metal
ducts shall have two-inch concrete encasement. Prior to pouring the concrete
encasement, all duct piping, metal joints and fittings shall be properly sealed
with an approved waterproof coating to ensure water-tightness.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-2) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-10, passed 4-
19-2022)
CHAPTER 7: FUEL GAS CODE
Section
   
9-7-1   Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
9-7-2   Amendments to Fuel Gas Code
§ 9-7-1 FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Fuel Gas Code (2018 edition), excluding appendix
chapters, and incorporating by reference those modification and amendments to
the Code by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, pursuant to 59 O.S.
§ 1000.23, is hereby adopted as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
9-7-2.
   (B)   Where such Code conflicts with other adopted codes, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (C)   Three copies of said adopted Code have been and are now on file in the
Office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-1) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-12, passed 4-
19-2022)
§ 9-7-2 AMENDMENTS TO FUEL GAS CODE.
   (A)   Chapter 1 Scope And Administration is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section [A] 101.1 Title: These regulations shall be known as the
Fuel Gas Code of the City of Enid, Oklahoma herein after referred to as this
code.
      (2)   Section [A] 103.5 Fuel Gas Contractors:
         (a)   State License Required: Any person who engages in the occupation
or business of installing, altering, replacing or repairing any consumer gas
piping within the city is required to be licensed by the state of Oklahoma as a
plumbing or mechanical contractor.
         (b)   Exemptions; Utility Companies: All services performed by utility
companies operating under a franchise agreement, and the employees of such
utility companies, are hereby exempt from the licensing provisions of this
chapter for work done under the supervision and direction of said utility
companies.
      (3)   Section [A] 106.6.1 Triple Fees Authorized: All fees are tripled if
work is started prior to the issuance of any permit. Existing equipment change
outs shall be permitted to start prior to inspection and issuance of a permit.
The assessment and/or payment of triple fees shall in no way prevent further
penalty, such as suspension or revocation of a license for excessive repetition
of violations.
      (4)   Section [A] 106.6.2. All work requiring a permit or inspection
under this code shall be paid as required at the time of filing the application
in the amounts provided for in title 2, chapter 6, article F of the Enid
Municipal Code, 2014.
      (5)   Section [A] 106.6.3 Fee refunds:
         (a)   The Code Official shall authorize the refunding of the fees as
follows:
            1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder that was erroneously
paid or collected.
            2.   Not more than 75% of the permit fee paid where work has not
been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
            3.   Omitted.
         (b)   The Code Official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee
paid, except upon written application filed by the original permitee not later
than 180 days after the payment.
      (6)   Section [A] 107.1.1 Entry Powers: Subject to constitutional
limitations, it shall be unlawful for the owner or user of any mechanical
equipment to refuse to permit inspection of same after reasonable advance
notice by the mechanical inspector, or to prevent the entry of said inspector
for that purpose at any reasonable time, and after proper introduction and
presentation of proper credentials.
      (7)   Section [A] 108.4 Violation Penalties: Any person that violates any
of the provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any requirements
thereof, or who shall erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the Code
Official or of a permit or certificate issued under this code, shall be guilty
of violation with a maximum fine of one hundred dollars, plus costs; unless the
person has previously been convicted of a violation of one of the technical
codes adopted in this Title, then a violation shall be punishable by a maximum
fine of up to five hundred dollars, plus costs.
      (8)   Section [A] 108.5. Stop Work Orders: Upon notice from the Code
Official that work is being performed contrary to the provisions of this Code
or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such
notice shall be in writing and shall give the owner of the property, or to the
owner’s authorized agent, or the person doing the work. The notice shall state
the conditions under which work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency
exists the Code Official shall not be required to give a written notice prior
to stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on the system
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove the violation or unsafe condition,
shall be punishable by a maximum fine of up to five hundred dollars, plus
costs.
      (9)   Section [A] 109 Means of Appeals:
         (a)   Section [A] 109.1 Construction Board of Appeals. This board
shall hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations of the
building official relative to the application and interpretation of this code.
See, 9-1-2, for the regulations that govern this Board.
         (b)   Section [A] 109.2 through Section [A] 109.7 are omitted.
   (B)   Chapter 4 Gas Piping Installations is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section 404.12 Minimum Burial Depth. Underground piping systems
shall be installed at a minimum depth of 18 inches below grade, except as
provided for in section 404.12.1.
      (2)   Section 404.13.1 Separate Ditch for Gas Piping. The laying or
installing of gas piping in the same trench with water, sewer drainage, or
electrical lines is prohibited. The distance between such lines shall be not
less than five (5) feet unless approved by the plumbing inspector.
      (3)   Section 406.4 Test Pressure Measurement. Before any system of gas
piping is put in service, it shall be tested to ensure that it is gas tight.
Where any part of the system is to be enclosed or concealed, this test shall
precede the work of closing in. To test for tightness, the piping shall be
filled with air or inert gas, but not with any other gas or liquid. Testing or
purging of gas piping systems shall comply with NFPA 54, but the test pressures
shall be as follows: metallic gas lines shall be pressure tested at fifteen
(15) psig for ten (10) minutes; plastic gas lines shall be tested at fifty (50)
psig for ten (10) minutes. Any gas lines exceeding 500 cubic feet of volume
shall be tested thirty (30) minutes for each 500 cubic feet or fraction
thereof. Mechanical gauges used to measure test pressures shall have a range
such that the highest end of the scale is not greater than five times the test
pressure.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-2) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-12, passed 4-
19-2022)
CHAPTER 8: PLUMBING CODE
Section
   
9-8-1   Plumbing Code adopted
   
9-8-2   Amendments to Plumbing Code
§ 9-8-1 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Plumbing Code (2018 edition), excluding appendix
chapters, and incorporating by reference those modification and amendments to
the Code by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, pursuant to 59 O.S.
§ 1000.23, is hereby adopted as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
9-8-2.
   (B)   Where such Code conflicts with other adopted codes, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (C)   Three copies of said adopted code have been and are now on file in the
Office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-1) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-12, passed 4-
19-2022)
§ 9-8-2 AMENDMENTS TO PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Chapter 1 Scope And Administration is hereby amended.
      (1)   Section [A] 101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the
Plumbing Code of the City of Enid, Oklahoma herein after referred to as this
code.
      (2)   Section [A] 102.3.1 Plumbing Installation or Maintenance By
Homeowner: Nothing in this code shall prevent a homeowner from installing or
maintaining plumbing within his own property boundaries, providing such
plumbing work is done by himself and is used exclusively by him or his family.
In the case of a lawn sprinkling or irrigation piping system, not only can the
homeowner install the system on his own property as provided for herein, but
also any person, firm or corporation solely engaged in the business of
installing such systems.
      (3)   Such privilege as provided for in this section does not convey the
right to violate any of the provisions of this code nor is it to be construed
as exempting any such plumbing work from being properly permitted or required
fees from being paid therefore.
      (4)   Section [A] 103.3 Plumbing Inspector Qualifications. The Code
Official, with the approval of the applicable governing authority, may appoint
or hire such number of officers, inspectors, assistants and other employees as
shall be authorized from time to time. A person shall not be appointed or hired
as inspector of construction who has not had at least 5 years experience as a
building inspector, engineer, architect, or as a superintendent, foreman or
competent mechanic in charge of construction. The inspector should be
certified, through a recognized certification for the appropriate trade.
      (5)   Section [A] 103.5 Plumbing Contractors:
         (a)   State License Required: Any plumbing contractor, plumbing
journeyman, or plumbing apprentice who performs work within the city is
required to have an Oklahoma state license.
         (b)   Registration Required:
            1.   No person shall work at the occupation or engage in the
business of installing, altering, replacing, or repairing any plumbing
equipment, fixtures or apparatus within the city without registering with the
city clerk and securing a plumbing contractor registration. The city clerk
shall issue such registration upon presentation by the applicant of a valid
license or registration issued by the state of Oklahoma and upon payment of the
required fees.
            2.   The fees for such registrations shall be as provided in title
2, chapter 6, article F of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
            3.   All registrations shall expire July 31 of each year.
            4.   Any person in the city who shall do work specified in this
chapter requiring a permit shall be registered annually. Failure to renew
within thirty (30) days of expiration will subject the registrant to a daily
penalty fee as provided in title 2, chapter 6, article F, of the Enid Municipal
Code, 2014 for each day or part thereof over the thirty (30) days. Registration
shall be in the office of the city clerk.
            5.   Certificates of registration shall be issued to registrants
who shall carry the same upon their persons at all times while working. The
plumbing inspector shall have the right to demand a current registration
certificate from any workman.
            6.   Marking of Vehicles: All vehicles used in plumbing work shall
have signs stating the name of the contractor and the state license number in
letters at least two inches (2”) high, affixed to both sides of the vehicle.
         (c)   Exemptions; Utility Companies: All services performed by utility
companies operating under a franchise agreement, and the employees of such
utility companies, are hereby exempt from the licensing provisions of this
chapter for work done under the supervision and direction of said utility
companies.
      (6)   Section [A] 106.6.2 Fee Schedule. All work requiring a permit or
inspection under the plumbing code shall be paid as required at the time of
filing application in the amounts provided for in title 2, chapter 6, article F
of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
      (7)   Section [A] 106.6.2.2 Triple Fees Authorized: Permit fees are
tripled if work is started prior to the issuance of any permit. Existing
equipment change outs shall be permitted to start prior to inspection and
issuance of a permit. The assessment and/or payment of triple fees shall in no
way prevent further penalty, such as suspension or revocation of a license for
excessive repetition of violations.
      (8)   Section [A] 106.6.3 Fee Refunds.
         (a)   The Code Official shall authorize the refunding of the fees as
follows:
            1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder that was erroneously
paid or collected.
            2.   Not more than 75% of the permit fee paid where work has not
been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
            3.   Omit.
         (b)   The Code Official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee
paid, except upon written application filed by the original permittee not later
than 180 days after the payment.
      (9)   Section [A] 108.4 Violation Penalties: Any person who shall violate
any of the provisions of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter or repair plumbing work
in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the Code
Official or of a permit or certificate issued under this code, shall be guilty
of violation with a maximum fine of one hundred dollars, plus costs; unless the
person has previously been convicted of a violation of one of the technical
codes adopted in this Title, then a violation shall be punishable by a maximum
fine of up to five hundred dollars, plus costs.
      (10)   Section [A] 108.5. Stop Work Orders: Upon notice from the Code
Official that work on any plumbing system is being performed contrary to the
provisions of this Code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall
immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall give the owner of
the property, or to the owner’s authorized agent, or the person doing the work.
The notice shall state the conditions under which work is authorized to resume.
Where an emergency exists the Code Official shall not be required to give a
written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any
work on the system after having been served with a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove the violation or unsafe
condition, shall be punishable by a maximum fine of up to five hundred dollars,
plus costs.
      (11)   Section [A] 109 Means of Appeals:
         (a)   Section [A] 109.1 Construction Board of Appeals. This board
shall hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations of the
building official relative to the application and interpretation of this code.
See, 9-1-2, for the regulations that govern this Board.
         (b)   Section [A] 109.2 through Section [A] 109.7 are omitted.
   (B)   Chapter 3 General Regulations is hereby amended: Section 305.4
Freezing: Water, soil or waste pipes shall not be installed or permitted
outside of a building, or concealed in outside walls or in any place where they
may be subject to freezing temperatures, unless provision is made to protect
them from freezing. Water service piping and sewers shall be installed below
recorded frost penetration but not less than two (2) feet six (6) inches below
finished grade for water piping and one foot six (6) inches below finished
grade for sewers subject to the plumbing official’s and/or department of
environmental quality approval for septic systems in climates with freezing
temperatures. Plumbing piping in exterior building wall, or areas subjected to
freezing temperatures shall be adequately protected against freezing by
insulation or heat or both.
   (C)   Chapter 4 Fixtures, Faucets And Fixture Fittings is hereby amended:
Section 413.5 Floor Drains: Floor drains may be installed in all public toilet
rooms, etc. (see definition of Public or Public Utilization in chapter 2) at
the discretion of the design engineer or the plumbing official. When floor
drains are installed in the above-mentioned rooms, the floor drains shall be
not less than 2 inches. Exception: All public toilets for health care and
institutional facilities shall have a minimum of one floor drain.
   (D)   Chapter 6 Water Supply And Distribution is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section 605.4 Water Distribution Pipe.
         (a)   Above Ground. Materials for water distribution pipes and tubing
when copper water tubing shall be the minimum type “L”, or be in table 605.4,
all to be installed with approved fittings; except that changes in direction in
copper tube (ASTM B88) may be made with bends having a radius of not less than
four (4) diameters of the tube, providing that such bends are made by use of
forming equipment which does not deform or create a loss in cross-sectional
area of the tube.
         (b)   Under Ground. Inaccessible water distribution piping under slabs
when copper water tubing shall be minimum type “K”, or shall be in table 605.3.
No joints shall be allowed under slabs except with approval of the plumbing
inspector. Any material subject to corrosion shall be protected when used in
corrosive soils.
      (2)   Section 605.22.3.1 Joints For Plastic Pipes And Fittings. All pipe
cuts shall be square and both pipe and fittings shall be cleaned of all soil,
dirt, oil and grease. Joints shall be allowed to dry before testing. Should any
leak occur on water test, the defective joint shall be replaced. Mandatory use
of a colored primer is required, different in color from that used to cement
the joint.
   (E)   Chapter 7 Sanitary Drainage is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section 702.1 Above-Ground Sanitary Drainage And Vent Pipe. Above-
ground soil, waste and vent pipe shall conform to one of the standards listed
in table 702.1. PVC pipe shall be schedule 40 or heavier.
      (2)   Section 702.2 Underground Building Sanitary Drainage And Vent Pipe.
Underground building sanitary drainage and vent pipe shall conform to one of
the standards listed in table 702.2. PVC pipe shall be schedule 40 or heavier.
Materials subject to corrosion shall be protected when installed in corrosive
soil.
      (3)   Section 702.3 Building Sewer Pipe. Building sewer pipe shall
conform to one of the standards listed in table 702.3. PVC pipe shall be
schedule 40 or heavier.
      (4)   Section 703.7 Minimum Size Building Sewer. No building sewer shall
be less than four (4) inches in size with the exception of force lines.
      (5)   Section 710.3 Underground Drainage Piping. Any portion of the
drainage system installed under slab or below a basement or cellar shall not be
less than two (2) inches in diameter.
   (F)   Chapter 9 Vents is hereby amended: Section 904.1 Required Vent
Extension. All open vent pipes that extend through a roof shall be terminated
at least twelve (12) inches above the roof, except that where a roof is to be
used for any purpose other than weather protection, the vent extensions shall
be run at least 7 feet (2134 mm) above the roof.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-2) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 2022-12, passed 4-
19-2022)
CHAPTER 9: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
9-9-1   Property Maintenance Code adopted
   
9-9-2   Amendments to Property Maintenance Code
§ 9-9-1 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. The 2015 edition of the International Property Maintenance
Code, save and except such portions as may hereinafter be amended, of which not
less than three copies have been and are now filed in the Office of the City
Clerk and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set forth
at length herein, and the provisions therein shall be controlling in the use,
maintenance and occupancy of all dwellings, dwelling units and/or structures
within the area of jurisdiction of the City.
   (B)   Violation. No person shall violate any of the provisions of the
publication adopted in subsection (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-1) (Ord. 2015-42, passed 11-17-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 14-107
§ 9-9-2 AMENDMENTS TO PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, is hereby amended
in the following respects.
   (A)   Chapter 1 Scope And Administration is hereby amended in the following
respects:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert the City of Enid. Section 106.1 Unlawful
Acts. Any person, firm, corporation or agent, who shall violate a provision of
this code, unless specified otherwise, or fail to comply therewith, or with any
of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, alter, demolish or move any
structure, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, moved or demolished
a building or structure in violation of this code shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), unless the
person charged has been previously convicted once under this section or any of
the following sections of the city code: 4-3-2; 4-4-2; 4-5-8; 4-6-8; 7-7-2; and
8-4-7 in the last five (5) years, then a violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      (2)   Section 107.1 Notice To Person Responsible. Whenever the Code
Official determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has
been a violation of any provision of this code or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, he shall give notice of such alleged violation to the
person or persons responsible therefor and such alleged violations shall
constitute a nuisance.
      (3)   Section 107.2 Form. Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be put in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the property sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the violation(s) and why it is being
issued;
         (d)   Allow 10 days to correct safety violations, allow 45 days to
correct major violations and 60 days to correct minor violations with a maximum
time limit of 120 days for any combination, subject to approval of the Code
Official; and
         (e)   State that, if such repairs, reconstruction, alterations,
removal or demolition are not voluntarily completed within the stated time as
set forth in the notice, the Code Official shall institute such legal
proceedings charging the person or persons, firm, corporation or agent with a
violation of this code.
         (f)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance
with section 106.3.
      (4)   Section 107.3 Method Of Service. Service of notice shall be as
follows:
         (a)   By delivery to the owner personally, or by leaving the notice at
the usual place of abode of the owner with a person of suitable age and
discretion; or
         (b)   By depositing the notice in the United States post office
addressed to the owner at his last known address with postage prepaid thereon;
or
         (c)   By posting and keeping posted for 24 hours a copy of the notice
in a conspicuous place on the premises to be repaired. The removal of this
notice is punishable by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      (5)   Section 107.5 is omitted.
      (6)   Section 108.4.1 Removal Of Placard. The Code Official shall remove
the condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the
condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person
who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code
Official shall be subject to the penalties provided by this code. Violation of
this section shall be punishable by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      (7)   Section 111.1 Application For Appeal. Any person directly affected
may enter an appeal in writing to the construction board of appeals within 10
days following the date of service of notice of deficiencies from the Code
Official as specified in section 107.3. Such appeal shall state the location of
the property and the date of the notice of violations. The appellant must state
the modification requested, the reasons therefore, and the hardship or
conditions upon which the appeal is made. The fee as provided in section 2-6F-
2 of the Enid municipal code shall accompany such notice of appeal.
      (8)   Section 111.7 is amended and entitled “Appeals From Construction
Board.” Section 111.7 Appeals From Construction Board. Any person may appeal
the decision of the construction board of appeals to Garfield County district
court pursuant to 12 Oklahoma Statutes section 951, if said appeal is filed
within 30 days from decision being rendered.
   (B)   Chapter 2 Definitions is hereby amended in the following respects:
Section 202 “General Definitions” shall be amended to include a definition of
owner: Owner. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal
or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of
the state, county, or city as holding title to the property, including the
guardian of the estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of
the estate of such person ii ordered to take possession of real property by a
court; or a property manager or any person who signs the rental contract, lease
or “rent to own documents” on behalf of the owner.
   (C)   Chapter 3 General Requirements is hereby amended in the following
respects: Section 302.10 is created to read as follows: Section 302.10 Care Of
Premises - Open Storage. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant to
utilize the premises of such property for the open storage of any ice box,
refrigerator, stove, glass, televisions, recliners, sofas, dressers, building
material, building rubbish, vehicle parts or similar items.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-2) (Ord. 2018-25, passed 9-6-2018)
CHAPTER 10: FIRE CODE
Section
   
9-10-1   Fire Code adopted
   
9-10-2   Amendments to Fire Code
§ 9-10-1 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Fire Code, (2018 edition), with appendices B, C, D,
H, I and J, and incorporating by reference those modification and amendments to
the Code by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission, pursuant to 59 O.S.
§ 1000.23, is hereby adopted as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
9-10-2.
   (B)   Where such Code conflicts with other adopted codes, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (C)   Three copies of said adopted Code have been and are now on file in the
Office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-1) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018; Ord. 2022-11, passed 4-
19-2022)
§ 9-10-2 AMENDMENTS TO FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Chapter 1 Scope And Administration is hereby amended.
      (1)   Section [A] 101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the
Fire Code of the City of Enid, Oklahoma herein after referred to as this code.
      (2)   Section [A] 105.1.1 Permits Required. A property owner or owner’s
authorized agent who intends to conduct an operation or business, or install or
modify systems and equipment regulated by this code, or make required
inspections of fire protection and life safety systems or to cause any such
work to be performed, shall first make application to the fire marshal. The
permit fee shall be paid as required at the time of filing application in the
amounts provided for in title 2, chapter 6, article F, §
2-6F-11 of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
      (3)   Section [A] 105.1.1.1 Triple Fees Authorized. Permit fees are
tripled if work is started prior to the issuance of any permit. Existing
equipment change outs shall be allowed to start prior to inspection and
issuance of permit. The assessment and/or payment of triple fees shall in no
way prevent further penalty, such as suspension or revocation of a license for
excessive replevin of violations.
      (4)   Section [A] 107.5 Rendering Equipment Inoperable. Portable or fixed
fire-extinguishing systems or devices, and fire-warning systems, shall not be
rendered inoperable or inaccessible, except as necessary during emergencies,
maintenance, repairs, alterations, drills or prescribed testing. Violation of
this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00), plus costs.
      (5)   Section [A] 107.7 False Fire Alarms. It shall be unlawful for
anyone to utilize a fire alarm in such a manner that false alarms occur. A
warning citation should issue for the first false alarm responded to by the
fire department. The second false alarm within a twelve-month period shall be
punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus costs. Subsequent
false alarms within a twelve-month period shall be punishable by a fine of up
to five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus costs.
      (6)   Section [A] 108.2 Testing and operation. Equipment requiring
periodic testing or operation to ensure maintenance shall be tested or operated
as specified in this code.
      (7)   Section [A] 108.2.1 Fire detection and alarm systems, sprinklers
and fire-extinguishing systems must be inspected at regular intervals. See,
Chapter 9 of this code. The frequency of the inspections is found in Section
901.6.1 and in Table 901.6.1 and generally is annually or semi-annually.
         (a)   These inspections must be done by licensed inspection companies
as required by the Alarm, Locksmith and Fire Sprinkler Industry Act 59 O.S. §
1800.1 and Oklahoma Administrative Code 380:75 and Oklahoma Administrative Code
265:50 and this law and regulations are incorporated by reference. To inspect
and repair fire detection and alarm systems, sprinklers and other fire-
extinguishing systems, the inspection companies shall register under this
section with the City Fire Marshal.
         (b)   Additionally, the companies must provide documentation of the
inspections to the Fire Marshal by utilizing the on-line web application
approved by the Fire Marshal, that collects, organizes and stores fire and life
safety reports that pertain to inspection, testing, and maintenance.
      (8)   Section [A] 109.1 Construction Board of Appeals. This board shall
hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations of the building
official relative to the application and interpretation of this code. See, 9-1-
2, for the regulations that govern this Board.
      (9)   Section [A] 109.3 is omitted.
      (10)   Section [A] 110.3 Notice of Violation. The fire chief, the fire
marshal and the assistant fire marshal shall have the authority to issue
citations to and/or file a complaint on persons who violate any provision of
the Fire Code or any of the other technical codes that are codified in title 9
of the Enid Municipal Code, 2014.
      (11)   Section [A] 110.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall
violate any provision of this code, or shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do any other
work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the
fire Code Official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions
of this code, shall be guilty of an offense punishable by a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00), plus costs, unless the person has previously been convicted
of a violation of one of the technical codes within the last three years, then
a violation shall be punishable by a fine of up to five hundred dollars
($500.00), plus costs, unless the section provides a specific penalty.
      (12)   Section [A] 112.4. Failure to Comply. Any person who shall
continue any work after having been served with a stop work, except such work
as that person has is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be to a fine not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00,
plus costs.
   (B)   Chapter 2, Definitions is hereby amended: FALSE ALARM. The activation
of an alarm system through mechanical failure, malfunction, negligence or
otherwise, that causes notification of an event of fire when no danger exists.
It does not include alarms activated by tornados, earthquakes, or other violent
conditions of nature, or other conditions clearly beyond the control of the
alarm manufacturer, installer, owner or user.
   (C)   Chapter 5, Fire Service Features, is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section 506.1 Required for Certain Structures.
         (a)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key box at or
near the main entrance or at such other location as may be required by the fire
chief or his designee:
            1.   Commercial buildings;
            2.   Industrial buildings;
            3.   Schools and universities;
            4.   Governmental buildings; and
            5.   Multi-family residences that have restricted access through
locked gates or locked doors that have a common corridor for access to the
living units.
         (b)   The fire chief or his designee shall designate the type of key
box system to be implemented with the City of Enid and shall have the authority
to require all structures to use the designated system. Additionally, the fire
chief or his designee shall be authorized to implement the rules and
regulations for use of the key box system.
         (c)   The owner or operator of any structure required to have a key
box shall, at all times, keep a key in the key box that will allow the fire
department to access the structure.
         (d)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus costs.
      (2)   Section 506.1.2 Installation Prior To Issuance Of Occupancy Permit:
All newly constructed structures which require a key box, as outlined in
section 506.1, shall have the key box installed and operational prior to the
issuance of an occupancy permit. No occupancy permit, whether temporary or
permanent, shall be issued until the required key box is installed and
operational.
   (D)   Chapter 9, Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems is hereby amended:
Section 907.1.4 Assignment of Responsibility.
      (1)   Any person, partnership, corporation or organization owning and/or
operating a building or structure used as a hospital, church, theater, hotel,
motel, apartment house, residential rental property, rooming house, dormitory,
rest home, nursing home, day nursery, convalescent home, auditorium, or
childcare institution, shall install in such building or structure a smoke
alarm or alarms in accordance with the international fire code and
international property maintenance code as adopted by the City of Enid.
      (2)   Any person, partnership, corporation or organization who is a
lessor of a residential property shall explain to the lessee or tenant the
method of testing the smoke alarm to ensure that it is in working order. The
responsibility for checking the smoke alarm to determine whether such alarm is
in working order is with the tenant or lessee leasing or renting a one- or two-
family dwelling, including an apartment in each apartment house, and not with
the person, partnership, corporation or organization who is a lessor of the
residential rental property to the lessee or tenant.
      (3)   All owners of single-family dwellings or duplexes shall install
smoke alarms as required by the international fire code and international
property maintenance code as adopted by the City of Enid.
   (E)   Chapter 57, Flammable and Combustible Liquids is hereby amended:
      (1)   Section 5704.2.9.6.1 Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are
Prohibited. Storage of Class I and II liquids in above ground tanks outside
buildings are prohibited in Residentially zoned areas.
      (2)   Section 5706.2.4.4 Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are
Prohibited. Storage of Class I and II liquids in above ground tanks outside
buildings are prohibited in residentially zoned areas.
   (F)   Chapter 58, Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids is hereby
amended: Section 5806.2 Limitations. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in
stationary containers outside of buildings is prohibited in residentially zoned
areas.
   (G)   Chapter 61, Liquefied Petroleum Gases is hereby amended: Section
6104.2 Maximum Capacity Within Established Limits. The storage of liquefied
petroleum gas in commercial, industrial, or agriculturally zoned property shall
not exceed the aggregate capacity of 2,000 gallons (7570 L). Storage shall not
be allowed within residential zones.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-2) (Ord. 2018-08, passed 3-6-2018; Ord. 2022-11, passed 4-
19-2022)
CHAPTER 11: DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
Section
   
9-11-1   Definitions
   
9-11-2   Condemnation notice; removal; lien; exception
§ 9-11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks necessary
repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent
that said structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general
public.
      (2)   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety and welfare of the general public.
      (3)   A structure which is determined by the City Council or by the Code
Official to be an “unsecured building”, as defined by 11 O.S. § 22-112.1, more
than three times within any 12-month period.
      (4)   A structure which has been “boarded and secured”, as defined in 11
O.S. § 22-112.1 for more than six consecutive months.
      (5)   A structure declared by the City Council to constitute a public
nuisance.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-1) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-5-2012; Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-
15-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-112(C)
§ 9-11-2 CONDEMNATION NOTICE; REMOVAL; LIEN; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Removal procedure. The Code Official of the City may cause dilapidated
buildings within the city limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with
the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. At least ten days’ notice that a building is to be torn
down or removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the hearing
provided for herein may be held. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the
property to be affected. In addition, a copy of said notice shall be sent by
mail to the property owner at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls
in the Office of the County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to
any mortgage holder as shown by the records in the Office of the County Clerk
to the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to
any property owner or mortgage holder, the City shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the Postal Service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property, or by “publication”, as defined
in 11 O.S. § 1-102. Such notice may be published once not less than ten days
prior to any hearing or action to be taken pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
      (2)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held by the Code Official to determine
whether the property is dilapidated and has thereby become detrimental to the
health, safety and welfare of the general public and the community, or if said
property creates a fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
      (3)   Declaration of dilapidation; destruction; lien. Upon a finding that
the condition of the property constitutes a detriment or a hazard, and that the
property would be benefited by the removal of such conditions, the Code
Official may cause the dilapidated building to be torn down and removed, and
shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and completion of the work. The
City Clerk shall immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the
County Clerk describing the property, the findings of the Code Official at the
hearing, and stating that the City claims a lien in said property for the
destruction and removal costs, and that such costs are the personal obligation
of the property owner from and after the date of filing of said notice. The
agents of the City are granted the right of entry on the property for the
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the City if
the work is not performed by the property owner within dates fixed by the Code
Official.
      (4)   Right of appeal. The property owner shall have the right of appeal
to the City Council from any order of the Code Official. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days
after the administrative order is rendered. The decision of the City Council is
final unless an action to challenge the order is filed within 30 business days
from the date of the order.
      (5)   Mailing statement of costs to owner. The Code Official shall
determine the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of dilapidated
buildings, and any other expenses as may be necessary in conjunction with the
dismantling and removal of the buildings, including the cost of notice and
mailing. The City Clerk shall forward a statement of such actual cost
attributable to the dismantling and removal of the buildings and a demand for
payment of such costs by mail to the property owner, and by mailing a copy of
said statement to any mortgage holder, at the addresses named in subsection (A)
(1) above. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee. If dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings
is done by the City, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual
cost of the labor, maintenance and equipment required for dismantling and
removal of dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and removal of dilapidated
buildings is done on a private contract basis, it shall be awarded to the
lowest and best bidder.
      (6)   Payment; release of lien. When payment is made to the City for
costs incurred, the City Clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payments
attributable to the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings
is not made within six months from the date of the mailing of the statement to
the owner of such property, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement
of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the
property is located.
   (B)   Exception. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-2) (Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-5-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-112(A), (B) and (C)
CHAPTER 12: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS; PARKS
Section
   
9-12-1   Purpose and intent
   
9-12-2   Definitions
   
9-12-3   Mobile home park licensing requirements
   
9-12-4   Occupancy permit
   
9-12-5   Preexisting or nonconforming uses
   
9-12-6   Location restrictions
   
9-12-7   Mobile home neighborhoods; freestanding mobile homes
   
9-12-8   Residential use of travel trailers, campers
   
9-12-9   Commercial use of mobile homes
   
9-12-10   Insect, rodent and weed control
   
9-12-11   Inspections
   
9-12-12   Registration of occupants
   
9-12-13   Communicable disease reports
   
9-12-14   Sanitation generally
   
9-12-15   Dimensional and site development requirements
   
9-12-16   Individual lot requirements
   
9-12-17   Individual mobile home requirements
   
9-12-18   Water supply
   
9-12-19   Sewage disposal
   
9-12-20   Natural gas
   
9-12-21   Electricity
   
9-12-22   Fire protection
   
9-12-23   Refuse disposal
   
9-12-24   Service, administrative and other buildings
   
9-12-25   Structural additions, alterations or modifications
Cross-reference:
   For R-6 Mobile Home Park District, see
Title 11, Chapter 6 , Article G
§ 9-12-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish and provide minimum
acceptable standards, requirements, and regulations for the planned use,
development and maintenance of mobile homes and mobile home parks within the
corporate limits of the City, for the protection of the health, safety and
general welfare. The standards, requirements and regulations as herein provided
are to encourage mobile home park use, development and maintenance in locations
and in a manner for safe and sanitary living conditions and convenience for
purposes of employment, shopping, education and the availability of other
necessary community facilities.
(1994 Code, § 19-1) (Prior Code, § 9-12-1)
§ 9-12-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Definitions for MANUFACTURED HOME, MOBILE HOME, MODULAR HOME (IRC CODE),
RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME, SINGLE-WIDE RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME and
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME and TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
MANUFACTURED HOME are found in §
11-1-7  of this code.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A portable or mobile living unit used for temporary
occupancy away from the principal place of residence.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a toilet and a bath
or shower.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in the development or planning of a mobile
home park or subdivision.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor private way used by vehicles and/or pedestrians on a
mobile home site or used for common access to facilities or groups of lots.
   EXPANSION. The increasing of either the total land area of a mobile home
park, or the total number of mobile homes or mobile home spaces.
   FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER. Any mobile home or travel
trailer not located in a mobile home park or travel trailer park, respectively,
licensed by the City, or in an approved mobile home neighborhood.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The Oklahoma Department of Health as represented by the
county health unit or its authorized representative of the City.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home that has a toilet and bath or shower.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park,
under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME LICENSE. A permit issued by the Code Official to a developer for
the construction and operation of a mobile home park.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A plat of ground designated for the accommodation of one
mobile home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME NEIGHBORHOOD OR SUBDIVISION. An area designated and zoned by the
City, not in a mobile home park, where mobile homes are permitted and
encouraged on separately and privately owned lots.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land which has been developed for
the placement of two or more mobile homes to be occupied for dwelling purposes
and is owned by one person.
   MOBILE HOME PARK DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan bearing the written approval by
signature and seal of a registered architect, engineer or land surveyor
licensed in the state, showing all existing conditions of a proposed mobile
home park site, and the preliminary plans on a topographic map of the proposed
development, including all buildings, improvements and facilities existing or
to be constructed therein.
   MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled travel vehicle designed as one unit to be used
principally as a dwelling for vacation use and can be operated independently of
utility connections, excluding pickup campers.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Code Official permitting
the placement of a mobile home upon a mobile home lot.
   PARK MANAGEMENT. The person who owns or has charge, care or control of a
mobile home park.
   SEWER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage serving the mobile home park.
   STRUCTURAL ADDITION. Any roofed, canopied or enclosed porch, room or
structure used in connection with a mobile home; provided that the construction
of a concrete slab porch without a roof or walls shall not be a structural
addition.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A portable unit designed principally as a temporary vacation
dwelling to be towed on its own chassis by a passenger automobile, and can be
operated independently of utility connections. The term shall not include
camping trailers.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more travel
trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations and whether or not it
is a part of a mobile home park.
   WATER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile home.
(1994 Code, § 19-2) (Prior Code, § 9-12-2) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 9-12-3 MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for license; general requirements.
      (1)   Contents of application. Every person, firm or corporation desiring
to create, establish, develop or construct a mobile home park, or expand a
mobile home park, shall make written application, upon forms to be provided, to
the Code Official for a mobile home park license. Such written application
shall include the following:
         (a)   Applicant’s name and mailing address; and
         (b)   Five copies of a mobile home park development plan, to include
the following, on a scaled drawing of an appropriate dimension prepared by a
registered engineer, architect or land surveyor so indicated by signature and
seal:
            1.   A north arrow, date, scale and appropriate legend;
            2.   Two foot contour intervals;
            3.   Location and size of all easements, utilities and rights-of-
way existing and proposed;
            4.   All public and private street names;
            5.   Location and size of all proposed mobile home spaces, utility
and drainage easements, public streets and rights-of-way, private drives with
surface types, walkways, parking spaces with surface types, drainage
improvements, recreational spaces, screening, offices, laundry buildings and
any other contemplated permanent structures or improvements;
            6.   Location and size of all existing or proposed permanent
improvements, including pads, off street parking with surface types and
utilities; and
            7.   All proposed front, side and rear yard setback distances.
      (2)   Site plan submittal; hearing. The mobile home park site plan shall
be submitted to the Planning Commission for review, study and recommendation.
The same shall then be submitted to the City Council for approval, denial or
conditional approval only after said Board conducts a public hearing concerning
such development plan. Once approved, the land covered by such mobile home park
plan shall be developed in accordance therewith as approved, and any change,
modification, revision or deviation therefrom may be grounds for the revocation
of the mobile home park license issued, and deemed a violation of this chapter.
      (3)   City may require certain park modifications. The Planning
Commission or the City Council may require certain alterations, modifications
or amendments of the mobile home park development plan when deemed necessary
for the inclusion of easements, rights-of-way, utilities or any other amendment
necessary for the general welfare of the public.
      (4)   Improvement bonds. Improvement bonds may also be required to be
furnished on the subject property for public streets, water lines, sewer lines,
drainage structures and all other public improvements.
   (B)   Inspection for compliance; license issuance; fee.
      (1)   Upon the completion of a mobile home park, or the expansion of a
mobile home park, the Code Official shall be immediately notified of the same
by the permittee. After such notification, the Code Official, without
unnecessary delay, shall cause there to be an inspection of the mobile home
park, and if the said mobile home park has been developed and constructed in
compliance with all the pertinent provisions of this chapter and in accordance
with the approved mobile home park development plan, the Code Official shall
issue to the permittee a license to operate a mobile home park.
      (2)   No person shall operate any mobile home park within the City unless
he holds a valid license issued annually by the Director of Finance in the name
of such person for the specific mobile home park.
      (3)   In addition to the requirements as set forth herein to obtain a
license for the operation of a mobile home park, a fee as provided in §
2-6B-12(B) shall be paid to the City.
      (4)   All mobile home park licenses shall expire June 30 and all fees for
the ensuing year are due and payable prior thereto. Original fees for a license
may be prorated to June 30 of the following year, when appropriate.
   (C)   Transfer of license; notification.
      (1)   Every person holding a license shall give notice in writing to the
Code Official within ten days before having sold, transferred, given away or
otherwise disposed of his interest in, or control of, any mobile home park.
Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of such mobile home park. Upon application in writing for
transfer of the license and deposit of a fee in the amount provided in §
2-6B-12(C), the license shall be transferred, if the mobile home park is in
compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   After an on site inspection is performed by the Code Official,
written notice shall be given to the person holding the license and the person,
firm or corporation receiving the license, of any repairs, improvements or
other requirements which must be corrected within a specified period of time
determined by the Code Official.
      (3)   Transfer of the license may be permitted after both parties have
received written notification. However, responsibility for repairs,
improvements or requirements specified by the Code Official shall then be to
the person receiving the license.
   (D)   Suspension of license; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the Code
Official or any other authorized city officers or employees or the health
authority finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of
any provision of this chapter, such inspecting officer shall give notice in
writing to the person to whom the license was issued that such conditions or
practices shall be corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in
the notice. At the end of such period, the party issuing the notice shall
reinspect such mobile home park and, if such conditions or practices have not
been corrected, he shall file a complaint against the person to whom the
license was issued for the violation.
      (2)   If such person is found guilty by a municipal court, the license
shall be suspended after a hearing before the Code Official giving due process
and an opportunity to be heard.
(1994 Code, §§ 19-53, 19-54, 19-55 and 19-56) (Prior Code, § 9-12-3)
§ 9-12-4 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No mobile home lot shall be occupied by a mobile home
without the issuance of an occupancy permit by the Code Official.
   (B)   Application required; contents. Any person desiring to move a mobile
home onto any mobile home lot shall first make written application to the Code
Official, such application shall include the following:
      (1)   Applicant’s name;
      (2)   Mobile home park title and mobile home lot description; and
      (3)   A plot plan of the mobile home lot indicating the proposed location
of the mobile home.
   (C)   Inspection of plot plan. Upon inspection of the mobile home plot plan,
the Code Official shall grant or deny the applicant permission to move the
mobile home onto the mobile home lot.
   (D)   Inspection of mobile home on lot. The applicant shall then move the
mobile home onto the mobile home lot and immediately notify the Code Official
that the mobile home is in place. However, the tractor used to transport the
mobile home shall not be disconnected until an on site inspection is performed
by the Code Official, or his representative.
   (E)   Setback requirements. Upon notification, the Code Official, or his
representative, shall immediately inspect the mobile home lot to ensure all
setback requirements are in compliance with §§
9-12-16 and
9-12-17 .
   (F)   Permission for occupancy. If the mobile home is determined to be in
compliance with applicable setback distances, permission shall then be given to
prepare the mobile home for occupancy.
   (G)   Inspection of mobile home for compliance. Upon notification, the Code
Official shall perform a final inspection to determine if the mobile home is in
compliance with the provision of this chapter. If the mobile home is found to
be in compliance, the Code Official shall then issue an occupancy permit.
   (H)   Permit fee. The fee for an occupancy permit required under this
section shall be as provided in §
2-6B-12(D), and shall be payable to the Director of Finance.
(1994 Code, § 19-57) (Prior Code, § 9-12-4)
§ 9-12-5 PREEXISTING OR NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming parks allowed; expansion excepted. Mobile home parks
developed on or before February 12, 1984, shall not be governed by the
regulations and standards established in this chapter unless specifically
otherwise stated herein; provided, however, that no existing mobile home park
shall be permitted to expand beyond its existing boundaries or have placed a
greater number of mobile homes or travel trailers within its existing
boundaries unless the new area developed and the additional units conform to
all of the regulations and standards of this chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming mobile homes allowed. All nonconforming individual
mobile homes legally in use as dwellings on June 1, 1983, may continue in their
existing condition by annually securing a license under the terms of this
chapter.
   (C)   Alteration in mobile home. Any alteration in the mobile home or its
environment or change in ownership may invalidate its license and subject the
owner to liability to penalties provided under this chapter.
   (D)   Record of parks, freestanding mobile homes. The City Clerk shall keep
complete and accurate permanent records which provide applicable information
for all mobile home parks and freestanding mobile homes entitled to continue
occupancy under the terms of this section.
(1994 Code, § 19-3) (Prior Code, § 9-12-5)
§ 9-12-6 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   All mobile home parks, travel trailer parks and mobile home neighborhoods
shall be situated only in those districts where authorized by the zoning
ordinances of the City, which are as follows:
   (A)   Mobile home parks, R-6;
   (B)   Travel trailer parks, C-3, R-6;
   (C)   Mobile home neighborhoods or subdivisions, R-3; and
   (D)   Freestanding mobile homes, R-3, A Agriculture.
(1994 Code, § 19-4) (Prior Code, § 9-12-6)
§ 9-12-7 MOBILE HOME NEIGHBORHOODS; FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Location by owner. A lot in a mobile home neighborhood residential
area, as determined by zoning ordinances, under separate ownership and having
no structure thereon may be used by the owner of said lot for the location of
one mobile home for his own place of residence.
   (B)   Continuance of nonconforming use; permit. A single mobile home lot not
in an approved mobile home park or neighborhood which legally existed on or
before February 12, 1984, may continue to operate as such; provided, however,
that within 60 days from that day, the owner of any said mobile home lot shall
have obtained a permit from the Director of Finance for said mobile home lot.
Failure to make initial application for such permit within the time required
shall be presumptive evidence that such mobile home lot did not exist on or
before February 12, 1984.
   (C)   Connection to utilities required. The owner of any single mobile home
lot occupied by a mobile home shall connect to all available utilities and
shall pay to the City the same monthly fees for water, sewer and garbage pickup
service, and shall be subject to the same penalties for nonpayment of such fees
as are prescribed by ordinance of the City for single-family dwelling units,
including discontinuance of such service.
   (D)   Inspections. Any single mobile home or mobile home lot located within
the City not in a “mobile home park” as defined in §
9-12-2 shall comply with all regulations herein contained concerning the
inspection by the health authority, city and Fire Marshal.
   (E)   Application of provisions. The provisions of this section shall apply;
provided that they do not violate any plat restrictions or private covenants
applicable to the lot on which a permit for a mobile home or a mobile home lot
is requested.
(1994 Code, § 19-5) (Prior Code, § 9-12-7)
§ 9-12-8 RESIDENTIAL USE OF TRAVEL TRAILERS, CAMPERS.
   (A)   Use as dwellings prohibited. The use, occupancy or location of travel
trailers, camp trailers or pickup campers as dwellings is prohibited.
   (B)   Location restrictions. The use, occupancy or location of travel
trailers, dependent camp trailers within mobile home parks or mobile home
neighborhoods is prohibited.
   (C)   Parking on public street. No mobile home, camp trailer or travel
trailer shall be parked on any public street, thoroughfare or right-of-way.
(1994 Code, § 19-6) (Prior Code, § 9-12-8)
§ 9-12-9 COMMERCIAL USE OF MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Temporary permit for builders, demonstrations, exhibitions.
      (1)   Builders, subdividers, exhibitors and others who desire to use
mobile homes or travel trailers temporarily at certain locations for field
offices, demonstrations and exhibitions of certain equipment therein or for
charitable purposes may do so upon the issuance of a temporary mobile home or
travel trailer permit issued by the Director of Finance upon order of the Code
Official.
      (2)   The sale of any items from any home or travel trailer used in
conjunction with any demonstration or exhibition, except for charitable
purposes, shall be prohibited.
      (3)   The fee for the permit shall be as provided in §
2-6B-12(A) and shall be payable to the Director of Finance. The permit shall be
issued for a period not to exceed 30 days and shall be subject to renewal by
approval of the Code Official and the payment of the appropriate fees.
      (4)   The Code Official shall order the issuance or denial of the permit
within five working days of the filing of the application. Charitable and non-
profit organizations are exempt from said fee.
   (B)   Water and sewer connections. Where placement of a mobile home or
travel trailer is contemplated for employee occupancy for a period of time
greater than 30 days, water and sanitary sewer connections shall be installed
unless such connections are not required by §
8-3A-5 .
   (C)   Occupancy and use restrictions.
      (1)   Caretakers, custodians, night watchmen and other bona fide
employees or persons using mobile homes or travel trailers for commercial or
industrial purposes as herein set forth may, when required by the nature of
their employment, occupy such mobile homes as residences for themselves and
their families; provided that no more than one mobile home may be used for such
purposes by any commercial or industrial enterprise on property of 30 acres or
less.
      (2)   Additional mobile homes as required for the purposes herein set
forth may be thereafter situated on land held by single or common ownership;
provided that no more than one mobile home may be so situated for each
additional 30 acres of property. Nothing herein shall be construed to permit
the placement of a mobile home on any tract of land that comprises an existing
structure presently being used as a residence.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit the establishment of
any public enterprise other than those herein provided.
   (D)   Location in mobile home parks prohibited. No repair facility or home
business of any kind shall be permitted, authorized, maintained or allowed
within a mobile home park.
   (E)   Sale of mobile homes. The commercial sale of mobile homes within a
mobile home park or in conjunction with the maintenance and operation of a
mobile home park shall be conducted only on land that has been appropriately
zoned in which such sales are permitted.
(1994 Code, § 19-7) (Prior Code, § 9-12-9)
§ 9-12-10 INSECT, RODENT AND WEED CONTROL.
   All mobile home parks, mobile home neighborhoods and single mobile homes
shall comply with all ordinances containing provisions dealing with weeds,
debris, rodents, nuisances or any other obnoxious element.
(1994 Code, § 19-20) (Prior Code, § 9-12-10)
§ 9-12-11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspection by city officials. The health authority, the Code Official
and other authorized city officers and employees shall make inspections to
determine the condition of mobile home parks in order that they may perform
their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants therein and
of the general public.
   (B)   Right of entry. Subject to constitutional limitations, the inspection
officials shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private or
public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Allowing inspectors free access. The owners or occupants of mobile
home parks and mobile homes contained therein or the person in charge thereof
shall give the inspection officials free access to such premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of inspection.
   (D)   Access by park owner for repairs. Every occupant of a mobile home park
shall give the owner thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of
such mobile home park or to premises at reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
this chapter.
   (E)   Annual inspection of parks. All mobile home parks shall be inspected
annually before the reissuance of a license. Alterations and repairs may be
required before the mobile home license is issued in order to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 19-21) (Prior Code, § 9-12-11)
§ 9-12-12 REGISTRATION OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Register required. Every mobile home park or operator shall maintain a
register containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants using the mobile
home park.
   (B)   Availability; preservation. The register shall be available to any
authorized person inspecting the park, and shall be preserved for a period of
three years.
   (C)   Contents of register. The register shall contain:
      (1)   The names and addresses of all mobile home occupants in the park;
      (2)   The make, model and license number of the mobile home;
      (3)   The state, territory or county issuing the mobile home permit; and
      (4)   The dates of arrival and departure of each mobile home.
(1994 Code, § 19-22) (Prior Code, § 9-12-12)
§ 9-12-13 COMMUNICABLE DISEASE REPORTS.
   Every owner, operator, attendant or other person operating a mobile home
park shall notify the health authority immediately of any suspected
communicable or contagious disease within the mobile home park.
(1994 Code, § 19-23) (Prior Code, § 9-12-13)
§ 9-12-14 SANITATION GENERALLY.
   The licensee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker, shall be in
charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its facilities and equipment,
in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be
answerable, with the licensee, for the violation of any provision of this
chapter. (1994 Code, § 19-24) (Prior Code, § 9-12-14)
§ 9-12-15 DIMENSIONAL AND SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Size; street frontage. No mobile home park shall be developed,
constructed or maintained on a lot or tract of land of less than two and one-
half acres fronting on a major or minor arterial street. No drive within the
park shall have direct access to the arterial street.
   (B)   Circulation system for vehicular movement.
      (1)   A convenient circulation system for vehicular movement shall be
provided within a mobile home park by means of minor streets and properly
located collector streets.
      (2)   Collector streets shall be paved for a minimum width of 27 feet.
Other drives shall be paved for a minimum width of 20 feet.
      (3)   If parallel guest parking is desired, an additional seven feet
shall be provided on one side of a street. Parallel parking shall not be
permitted on both sides of any street.
      (4)   Dead end streets shall have a cul-de-sac with a diameter of no less
than 50 feet.
   (C)   Private streets; construction standards. All private streets within a
mobile home park shall be constructed of materials in accordance with the
following standards for sealed surface paving covering either earth, gravel or
other natural or artificial base or foundation, and approved by the City
Engineer:
      (1)   A minimum of three to four inches of rock aggregate not to exceed
one and one-half inches of crusher-run limestone spread, rolled and packed into
a properly drained area; then, to be primed with a minimum coat of MCI, RC 70,
or 250) asphalt equal to an amount of 0.25 to 0.30 gallons per square yard; and
then, to be sprayed with an equal amount of MC800 or AC4; then, to be covered
with a minimum coat or layer or three-eighths inch of limestone chips, broomed
or rolled into the surface;
      (2)   Three inches of hot asphaltic concrete on a four inch base of
compacted soil, gravel or a base thickness equivalent thereto; or
      (3)   Five inches of portland cement concrete with a minimum of 3,000 psi
on a two-inch sand cushion base.
   (D)   Maintenance of streets. All private streets within a mobile home park
shall be maintained in good condition.
   (E)   Subdivision street paving standards. All public streets within a
mobile home park shall be constructed in accordance with the subdivision street
paving standards of the City, and approved by the City Engineer.
   (F)   Drainage of surface water. Adequate facilities for drainage of surface
water shall be provided for within a mobile home park, to include proper
grading and, where necessary, the installation of gutters, culverts, catch
basins, drain inlets, storm and water sewers or other satisfactory drainage
systems.
   (G)   Drainage plans required; approval. All drainage plans shall be
prepared by a professional engineer and submitted to the City Engineer for
approval prior to the issuance of any mobile home park permit.
   (H)   Buffer zones and screening.
      (1)   A buffer zone of not less than 20 feet in width from the property
line of a mobile home park to the nearest home therein shall be required to
provide a continuous buffer along all side and rear yards of the mobile home
park.
      (2)   A buffer zone of not less than 25 feet in depth shall be provided
to extend along the entire frontage of the mobile home park where the said park
abuts a public street or thoroughfare.
      (3)   Screening of seventy-five percent (75%) opaque and six feet in
height by any combination of adequate fencing, landscaping or planting to
provide visual separation and privacy shall be provided where a mobile home
park abuts an incompatible use or zoning district and where existing foliage
within the buffer zone provided is not sufficient for screening purposes.
   (I)   Lighting. All interior streets and pedestrian walkways within a mobile
home park shall be lighted with lamp posts placed at intervals of not less than
300 feet.
(1994 Code, § 19-35) (Prior Code, § 9-12-15)
§ 9-12-16 INDIVIDUAL LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Each mobile home park space or lot for a mobile home shall satisfy all of
the requirements of §
11-6C-5(B).
(1994 Code, § 19-36) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 9-12-16)
§ 9-12-17 INDIVIDUAL MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Location. No mobile home, addition, storage building or related
structure shall be located within five feet of any lot line; except, however,
no mobile home addition or storage building shall be located, constructed or
maintained within any dedicated easement, right-of-way, buffer area or drainage
area. See also §
11-6G-5(C).
   (B)   Tie down standards. All mobile homes shall be securely tied down in
accordance with the standards provided in the Building Code.
   (C)   Anchoring. All mobile homes shall be securely anchored in accordance
with the standards provided in the Building Code.
   (D)   Skirting. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of
any mobile home, within a period of no longer than ten days upon the issuance
of an occupancy permit, to cause such mobile home to be totally skirted of
metal or other noncombustible solid material in such a manner to prevent the
intrusion of animals under said home. Failure to provide said skirting within
the prescribed time period shall subject the owner to penalties provided under
this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 19-37) (Prior Code, § 9-12-17)
§ 9-12-18 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Potable supply required.
      (1)   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each mobile home park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 150
gallons per day per mobile home lot.
      (2)   The development and use of an independent water supply to serve the
mobile home park shall be made only after express approval has been granted by
the health authority.
      (3)   Where a public supply of potable water is available pursuant to the
requirements of §
8-2-2 within the boundaries of the mobile home park, connection shall be made
thereto and its supply shall be used exclusively.
   (B)   Connection to system. The water system of the mobile home park shall
be connected by pipes to all buildings and all mobile home lots.
   (C)   Construction and maintenance. All water piping shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with state and local plumbing codes. The water
piping system shall not be connected with nonpotable or questionable water
supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of backflow or back
siphonage.
   (D)   Individual water system.
      (1)   Where an individual water system is used to serve the mobile home
park, the source, distribution and storage system shall comply with the minimum
requirements of the Oklahoma Department of Health for public water supplies.
      (2)   Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any
water service.
      (3)   The mobile home park water system shall be adequate to provide 30
pounds per square inch of pressure at all mobile home connections.
   (E)   Water line compliance with city specifications. Water lines shall be
in accordance with city specification.
(1994 Code, § 19-38) (Prior Code, § 9-12-18)
§ 9-12-19 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Compliance with state and local regulations. All plumbing in a mobile
home park shall comply with state and local plumbing laws and regulations.
   (B)   Discharge into public sewer system. Waste from showers, bathtubs,
flush toilets, urinals, lavatories and slop sinks in service and other
buildings within the park shall be discharged into a public sewer system in
compliance with applicable ordinances.
   (C)   Mobile home lot, connection. Each mobile home lot shall be provided
with a sewer at least four inches in diameter which shall be connected to
receive the waste from the shower, bathtub, flush toilet, lavatory and kitchen
sink of a mobile home harbored in such lot and having any or all of such
facilities. The sewer in each lot shall be connected to discharge the mobile
home park waste into a public system in compliance with applicable ordinances.
   (D)   Fittings; watertight connection. The sewer connection shall be
provided with suitable fittings, so that a watertight connection can be made
between the mobile home drain and the sewer connection. Such individual mobile
home connections shall be so constructed that they can be closed when not
linked to a mobile home and shall be capped so as to prevent any escape of
odors.
   (E)   Sewer line construction. Sewer lines shall be constructed in
accordance with specifications of the Health Department and the City. All sewer
lines shall be adequately vented, and shall be laid with sufficient earth cover
to prevent breakage from traffic.
   (F)   Private disposal facilities; restrictions.
      (1)   Where the sewer lines of the mobile home park cannot be connected
to a public sewer, a method of sewage disposal approved by the Health
Department and the City shall be provided. The design of such sewage treatment
facilities shall be based on the maximum capacity of the mobile home park.
      (2)   Effluents from sewage treatment facilities shall not be discharged
into any water of the state except with prior approval of the appropriate state
authority and the Health Department.
      (3)   The disposal facilities shall be located where they will not create
a nuisance or health hazard to the mobile home park or to the owner or
occupants of any adjacent property.
      (4)   The approval of the Health Department and the City shall be
obtained on the type of treatment proposed and on the design of the disposal
plant prior to construction.
   (G)   Plumbing alterations and repairs. All plumbing alterations and repairs
shall be made in accordance with applicable ordinances and regulations.
(1994 Code, § 19-39) (Prior Code, § 9-12-19)
§ 9-12-20 NATURAL GAS.
   (A)   Compliance with state and local regulations. A natural gas system, if
utilized, shall be designed, installed and maintained in accordance with all
pertinent provisions of the applicable ordinances of the City and laws of the
state.
   (B)   Installation by licensed contractor. All gas piping shall be
installed, repaired and maintained by a licensed contractor only.
   (C)   Inspection and testing. The gas supply shall be connected in the
proper manner, ensuring that piping is properly purged and free from leaks. A
gas pressure inspection shall be required by the Code Official to ensure the
system is free from any leaks incurred during mobile home transport.
   (D)   Proper disconnection upon moving mobile home. Before a mobile home is
moved, adequate arrangements shall be made to assure that all gas connections
are properly disconnected.
   (E)   Liquid petroleum gas prohibited; exception.
      (1)   The use, installation or storage of liquid petroleum gas within any
mobile home park constructed after February 12, 1984, shall be prohibited.
      (2)   The use of liquid petroleum gas shall be permitted for freestanding
mobile homes or within mobile home neighborhoods if installed and stored in
strict accordance with all applicable provisions of the International Fire
Code, the ordinances of the City and inspected by the Code Official or Fire
Marshal of the City.
(1994 Code, § 19-40) (2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 9-12-20)
§ 9-12-21 ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   Design; lines underground. The electricity system shall be designed to
provide adequate capacity to supply the connected load without exceeding the
current carrying capacity of the connectors. All electrical lines shall be
placed underground, except for higher voltage lines, as determined by the
public utility.
   (B)   Facilities provided. The permittee shall provide electricity supply
facilities for and to each mobile home with readily accessible means of
disconnecting the same, and shall provide a grounding type supply receptacle
with appropriate fuses or circuit breakers for each mobile home.
   (C)   Proper disconnection before moving mobile home. Before a mobile home
is moved, adequate arrangements shall be made to assure that both electrical
supply and ground connections are properly disconnected.
   (D)   Compliance with regulations. All electrical work, alterations and
repairs shall be made in accordance with applicable ordinances and regulations.
(1994 Code, § 19-41) (Prior Code, § 9-12-21)
§ 9-12-22 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. The mobile home park area shall be subject to
the rules and regulations governing fire prevention and safety.
   (B)   Parking of tow car or mobile home on streets. No tow car or mobile
home shall be parked, placed or allowed to remain at any time on a public or
private street, or pedestrian walkway within a mobile home park.
   (C)   Fire hydrants, water mains.
      (1)   Fire hydrants and water mains of adequate size and number shall be
provided for within a mobile home park.
      (2)   Fire hydrants shall be located no greater than 400 feet apart as
measured by street travel, requiring the inspection and approval of the Fire
Chief.
(1994 Code, § 19-42) (Prior Code, § 9-12-22)
§ 9-12-23 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Removal by city. All refuse, debris, trash and garbage in a mobile
home park shall be removed by the City in accordance with all ordinances.
   (B)   Collection and disposal. Methods and facilities for the collection,
storage, handling and disposal of garbage and refuse shall be provided for as
determined and in accordance with
Title 8, Chapter 4  relating thereto.
   (C)   Refuse containers.
      (1)   All refuse containers shall be located upon a concrete pad in
designated areas for collection.
      (2)   In addition, all collection areas shall be screened on three sides
with fencing, vegetation or any combination thereof for a height of not less
than five feet.
(1994 Code, § 19-43) (Prior Code, § 9-12-23)
§ 9-12-24 SERVICE, ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Mobile home as office; other buildings. One mobile home within a
mobile home park may be used as an administrative office. Other administrative
offices, and service buildings for housing sanitation, laundry or other
facilities shall be of permanent structure, complying with all pertinent
provisions of this code relating to construction and maintenance, for the use
of all the park.
   (B)   Service buildings. All service buildings shall be adequately lighted
at all times, well ventilated with screened openings and constructed of such
moistureproof material, including painted woodwork to permit repeated cleaning
and washing and shall have an adequate supply of both hot and cold water.
   (C)   Maintenance. All service buildings and the grounds of a mobile home
park shall be maintained in a clean and sightly condition, free from any
condition that will menace the health of any mobile home park resident therein
or constitute a nuisance.
(1994 Code, § 19-44) (Prior Code, § 9-12-24)
§ 9-12-25 STRUCTURAL ADDITIONS, ALTERATIONS OR MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Building permit required; exception. Any structural addition,
alteration or modification to a mobile home, other than those which are built
into a mobile home unit and designed to fold out or extend from it, shall be
done only when first having obtained a building permit from the Code Official
prior to construction, and then in accordance with all pertinent provisions of
this code relating to building; provided, a building permit for the addition of
a metal or noncombustible canopy, not to exceed ten feet in width, is not
required.
   (B)   Permanent addition prohibited. No permanent additions shall be built
onto or become a part of any mobile home located in a mobile home park.
   (C)   Storage structures. No structure other than a mobile home shall be
permitted on a mobile home park space or lot, except that one structure
constructed of metal or other noncombustible material shall be permitted for
storage. Storage structures shall be limited in size to 100 square feet and
seven feet in height.
(1994 Code, § 19-45) (Prior Code, § 9-12-25)
CHAPTER 13: OIL AND GAS CODE
Section
   
9-13-1   Short title
   
9-13-2   Intent and purpose
   
9-13-3   Definitions
   
9-13-4   Applicability to existing conditions
   
9-13-5   Enforcement
   
9-13-6   Permit requirements
   
9-13-7   Insurance and bond
   
9-13-8   Reserved
   
9-13-9   Commencement of drilling operations
   
9-13-10   Derricks and rigs
   
9-13-11   Mud and reserve pits
   
9-13-12   Disposal of deleterious substances
   
9-13-13   Reserved
   
9-13-14   Valves and blowout preventers
   
9-13-15   Reserved
   
9-13-16   Reserved
   
9-13-17   Reserved
   
9-13-18   Gaseous discharges to atmosphere
   
9-13-19   Premises kept clean and sanitary
   
9-13-20   Motive power and mufflers
   
9-13-21   Storage tanks
   
9-13-22   Fencing, landscaping
   
9-13-23   Movement of heavy equipment
   
9-13-24   Well location setbacks
   
9-13-25   Noise, dust, odors and other nuisances
   
9-13-26   Facilities; sign and information required
   
9-13-27   Fire prevention
   
9-13-28   Fracture and acidizing
   
9-13-29   Plugging and restoration
   
9-13-30   Rupture of surface casing
   
9-13-31   Depositing hazardous materials
   
9-13-32   Safety precautions
   
9-13-33   Appeals
   
9-13-34   Zoning
   
9-13-35   Violations
§ 9-13-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Oil and Gas Code” and may be cited as
such.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-1) (Prior Code, § 9-13-1)
§ 9-13-2 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Health, safety and welfare. Imprudent operation of an oil and gas
facility, whether that facility is involved in drilling or production, can and
has constituted a menace to the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City, and includes:
      (1)   The potential for serious contamination of water wells within the
City;
      (2)   A threat to the health and physical safety of children and other
residents of the City who may live, work or play in the area of operation; a
disturbance of the City’s peace and serenity through noxious odors, dust and
loud noises;
      (3)   A general threat to the well-being in the community through
potential fire dangers, fluid spills and other damages to the surface;
      (4)   A threat of physical destruction of municipal facilities caused by
heavy equipment; and
      (5)   The City recognizes that the state regulates oil and gas well
drilling and production activities. These regulations are intended to
supplement such standards and additionally implement compatible local measures
that assure the health, safety and general welfare of the City’s residents and
business.
   (B)   Authority. This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority vested under
the Oklahoma Constitution and the laws of the state and the City Charter. Each
authorization identified in this chapter shall be construed as an exercise of
the City’s police, nuisance and zoning powers pursuant to the Charter and state
statute.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-2) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 9-13-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and not
specifically defined in this chapter shall have that meaning customarily
attributable thereto by prudent operators of the oil and gas industry.
   ABANDONED WELL. Any natural production well in which production casing has
been run but which has not been operated for six months; the term shall also
mean any well in which no production casing has been run, and for which
drilling operations have ceased for 30 consecutive days, or which has otherwise
not been developed or operated with due diligence.
   COMPLETION PROCESS. Any operations conducted after the setting and cementing
of the casing and after notification thereof in writing given to the City Code
Official, or his designee.
   CORPORATION COMMISSION. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission.
   DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE. Any chemical, saltwater, oil field brine, waste oil,
waste emulsified oil, basic sediment, fresh water drilling fluids or injurious
substances produced or used in the drilling, development, production,
transportation, refining or processing of oil, gas or condensate, and all
substances used in the completion process.
   DEVELOPED AREA. Any area within the corporate limits of the City and
designated with a zoning classification other than A Agricultural, I-1 Planned
Industrial Park, I-2 Industrial (Light) or I-3 Industrial (Heavy).
   DRILLING PROCESS. Any operations from the beginning of operations until the
beginning of the completion process.
   ENHANCED PRODUCTION. Any secondary or tertiary operation by which potable or
treated water is introduced into a source of supply for the purpose of
stimulating recovery therefrom.
   INSPECTOR. Any person designated by the City Manager to make inspections
provided for in this chapter, whether or not other duties are additionally
assigned.
   LEASE. Any tract of land subject to an oil, gas or mineral lease or other
oil and gas development contract, or any unit composed of several tracts and
leases but operated as a single lease; and any tract of land in which the
minerals are owned by an operator or someone holding under him, which, due to
the royalty ownership, is developed as a separate tract.
   MUD PROGRAM. The planned usage of drilling fluid lubricants (also known in
the industry as “mud”), specifying with particularity the type, names, physical
and chemical composition and the characteristics of all ingredients thereof,
together with such laboratory and other technical data as may be necessary or
required by the City to evaluate the same as a potential source of pollution.
   NATURAL PRODUCTION. The raising of petroleum and/or natural gas to the
surface of the earth by natural flow.
   NONDELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE. Only nontoxic and nonpolluting water based
drilling fluids and solids.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom is issued a permit under the terms of this
chapter.
   PERSON. Includes both the singular and plural; and shall also mean and
include any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, club,
society, cooperative, trust, municipal corporation or political subdivision
regardless of form. When and after activity or omission is forbidden to a
PERSON, that activity or omission is forbidden whether the PERSON is acting for
himself or for another, and whether the activity or omission is performed
directly or through an agent, servant, employee, subcontractor or independent
contractor.
   POLLUTION. The contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical
or biological properties of any natural waters of the City or lands within the
City; or such discharge of any liquid, gaseous or solid substance into any
water of the City or upon any lands within the City as will or is likely to
create a nuisance or render such waters or such lands harmful or detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare; or which will render such waters or such
lands harmful or detrimental to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural,
recreational or other beneficial uses; or which will render such waters or such
lands harmful or detrimental to livestock, animals or aquatic life.
   WATER or WATER OF THE CITY. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems and all other
bodies or accumulations of water whether on the surface or underground, whether
natural or artificial, whether publicly or privately owned or maintained, and
which are either contained within, flow through or border upon the City or any
portion thereof.
   WELL. Shall include and mean any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any sand,
formation, strata or depth for the purpose of producing and recovering any
petroleum, oil, gaseous liquid hydrocarbon or any other liquefied matter or
gaseous matter.
(1994 Code § 23.5-3) (Prior Code, § 9-13-3)
§ 9-13-4 APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   This chapter and all amendments hereto shall apply to any person drilling an
original well, reentering an abandoned well or maintaining a well within the
City on or after February 15, 1983. Every person whose activity pre-exists
February 15, 1983, shall be exempt from all of the requirements of this
chapter.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-36) (Prior Code, § 9-13-4)
§ 9-13-5 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement officials. The City Manager and his duly authorized
representatives, including the Chief of the Fire Department, the Fire Marshal,
the City Engineer and the Code Official, shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and shall have all of the power and authority granted by law to peace
and Health Officers.
   (B)   Right of entry. Enforcement personnel may enter the leased premises
for any purpose pursuant to this chapter at all reasonable times to inspect
same or to perform any duty imposed by this chapter. No person having an
ownership interest in, or control of, the leased premises shall fail or neglect
to permit prompt entry, after proper demand, to the site of the oil and gas
operations.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-37) (Prior Code, § 9-13-5)
§ 9-13-6 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required; transfer of permit.
      (1)   No person shall engage in or authorize any work or erect any
structures, tanks, machinery, pipelines or other appurtenances incident to the
drilling of a well or drilling for or production of petroleum, natural gas or
their products; nor operate, maintain or permit any equipment, structures or
appurtenances incident to such production to exist or be maintained; nor allow
any flow therefrom, without a permit having first been issued by the City in
accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   A permit is transferable to the person who acquires the legal right
to produce oil or gas from the well in question, but notices served upon the
record permittee shall be binding upon the transferee until such time as the
transferee designates a new service agent. The transferee shall notify the City
in writing of the name and address of transferee and his service agent within
ten days of the effective date of the transfer.
   (B)   Application and filing fee.
      (1)   Every application for a permit to drill and operate a well,
including a reentry to an abandoned well, shall be verified under oath and in
writing, and signed by the applicant or some duly authorized person who may
sign on the applicant’s behalf.
      (2)   The application shall be filed with the Code Official and be
accompanied with a filing fee in the amount provided for in §
2-6B-17(A) in cash, money order, credit card or certified check.
      (3)   A separate application shall be required for each well.
      (4)   The application shall include the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of operator;
         (c)   Date of application;
         (d)   Legal description of the land;
         (e)   Block map of the 40 acres surrounding the drill site, showing
thereon the location of the proposed well in the center of the 40 acres and the
location of all abandoned wells, all structures designed for the occupancy of
human beings or animals, all easements of record, property boundaries, private
roads to the well, all publicly owned fresh water wells within the 40 acres and
all facilities and equipment proposed to be used with the well. The map shall
show the distances between the drill site and these items, and show a north
arrow;
         (f)   Name and address of the surface owners as shown by the tax rolls
maintained in the county where the land is located and of the mineral owners if
different from the applicant;
         (g)   Copy of the approved drilling permit from the Oklahoma
Corporation Commission and a copy of the staking plat;
         (h)   Name and address of the service agent within the state upon whom
service of process on behalf of the applicant may be made. In the case of a
nonresident person, there shall be attached to the application a designation of
a service agent who is a resident of the county, and a consent that service of
summons may be made upon such person in any action to enforce any of the
obligations hereunder;
         (i)   A site plan with a specified scale showing the location of all
structures, equipment and appurtenances on the drilling site;
         (j)   Location of mud pits, pollution prevention equipment and fire
equipment, together with a list of this equipment; and
         (k)   A written plan for disposal of deleterious substances produced
during the drilling operations and any deleterious substances produced as a
result of production from the well. This plan shall include the method of
transportation for the deleterious substances and the name and location of the
permitted disposal site, including a copy of the permit for the disposal site
and a contract with the owner of the permitted site for the disposal of said
deleterious substances; or in the alternative, provide proof of ownership of
the permitted disposal site. The permittee shall provide monthly reports to the
City of the amount of saltwater and other deleterious substances produced along
with receipts for disposal of the same.
   (C)   Issuance; conditions. The Code Official, within 30 days after the
filing of application for a permit to drill and operate a well, shall determine
whether or not said application complies in all respects with the provisions of
this chapter. Each permit issued under this chapter shall:
      (1)   Comply with all provisions of this chapter; and
      (2)   Specify that the term of such permit shall be for a period of one
year from the date of the permit, and for as long thereafter as the permittee
is engaged in drilling operations with no ceasing of such drilling operations
for more than 30 days, or oil and gas is produced in commercial quantities from
the well drilled pursuant to such permit; provided that if at any time after
discovery of oil or gas and the production thereof in commercial quantities,
such production shall cease, the term shall not terminate if the permittee
commences additional reworking operations within 90 days thereafter. If the
reworking operations result in the production of oil and gas, the permit shall
continue so long thereafter as oil and gas is produced in commercial quantities
from said well. In any event, continuation beyond one year from the date of
issuance is contingent on renewal of the permit as set forth hereafter.
   (D)   Termination. When a permit has been issued pursuant to this chapter,
the same shall terminate and become inoperative without any action on the part
of the City, unless, within 90 days of the date of issuance, actual drilling of
the well commences. If drilling operations or production cease for a period
sufficient to make the well an “abandoned well”, as defined in §
9-13-3, this abandonment shall operate to terminate and cancel the permit
without any action on the part of the City, and it shall be unlawful thereafter
to continue the operation of, or drilling of, such a well without the issuance
of a new permit.
   (E)   Renewal; filing of application.
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to the anniversary of the issuance of the
permit pursuant to this chapter, the City Clerk shall mail by certified mail a
ratification to permittee that such permit must be renewed in accordance with
the provisions of this subsection (E).
      (2)   On or before the anniversary of the issuance of the permit each
year, the permittee shall file an application for renewal of the base permit
previously granted. Such application shall include the following:
         (a)   Cash, money order, credit card or certified check as a renewal
fee in the amount specified in §
2-6B-17(B);
         (b)   A statement of amendments as to any factual issues which have
changed from the facts set forth in the initial application; and
         (c)   Evidence that all bonds and insurance remain in force, or have
been replaced with equivalent new bonds and insurance.
      (3)   The application for renewal may be submitted through the mail or in
person. Failure to make the required application for renewal shall suspend all
rights to drill, produce or inject, but shall not be construed to terminate the
base permit until after the time required to make the well an abandoned well,
and all such operations are offenses and forbidden until the renewal is issued.
      (4)   The City shall notify the permittee by letter within 30 days
thereafter that the base permit has been extended, or that the base permit has
not been extended, for a period of one year. This notice of extension shall be
maintained by the permittee with the permit and used as a supplement thereto
for all purposes. In the event the permit is not renewed, the permittee shall
immediately cease all drilling and production operations and diligently proceed
to plug the well.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-6) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 9-13-7 INSURANCE AND BOND.
   (A)   Bond requirements; amounts; conditions.
      (1)   In the event a permit is authorized by the City under the terms of
this chapter for the drilling and operation of a well, no actual drilling
operations shall be commenced until the permittee files with the City Clerk a
bond in the principal amount of at least $200,000 on all wells operated by a
single operator.
      (2)   Said bond shall be executed by a reliable insurance company
authorized to do business in the state as surety with the permittee as
principal, said bond running in favor of the City for the benefit of the City
and all persons concerned, conditioned that the permittee will comply with the
terms and conditions of this chapter in the operation of the well for either
natural or artificial production, injection or disposal.
      (3)   Said bond shall become effective on or before the same is filed
with the City and remain in force and effect for a period of at least one year
after the expiration of the term of the permit issued.
      (4)   In addition, the bond will be conditioned that the permittee:
         (a)   Will promptly pay all fines, penalties and other assessments
imposed upon the permittee by reason of the breach of any other terms,
provisions and conditions of this chapter;
         (b)   Will promptly restore to their former condition the streets,
sidewalks and other public property of the City, which may be disturbed or
damaged by the operations;
         (c)   Will promptly clear the premises of all litter, trash, waste and
the substances used, allowed or occurring in the drilling or production
operations;
         (d)   Will (after drilling operations are complete) grade, level and
restore said property to the same surface condition as nearly as possible, as
existed when operations for the drilling of the well was first commenced;
         (e)   Will comply with every applicable federal and state law,
municipal ordinance, rule, regulation, standard or directive relating to the
maintenance of the safe and beneficial physical, chemical and biological
properties of any waters of the City or lands within the City;
         (f)   Will bear all the costs necessary and incidental to the
correction of any pollution to the waters of the City or lands within the City
caused by the permittee or his agents, servants, employees, subcontractors or
independent contractors; and
         (g)   Shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all
liability attributable to granting the permit.
   (B)   Commercial liability and excess liability insurance; conditions. In
addition to the bond required above, the permittee shall carry a policy or
policies of standard comprehensive public liability insurance, and such
policies shall:
      (1)   Contain coverage for contamination or pollution of surface or
subterranean streams, watercourses, lakes or public or private water supplies;
      (2)   Be conditioned for payment of all damages due to injury to persons
or damage to property resulting from the drilling, operation or maintenance of
the proposed well or any structure, machinery, equipment, pipelines or
appurtenances used in connection therewith;
      (3)   Name the permittee and the City as additionally insured; and
      (4)   Be issued by an insurance company authorized to do business within
the state, and said policy or policies shall provide for minimum coverage of:
         (a)   Bodily injury and property damage. Coverage should be a minimum
combined single limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and
property damage. This coverage shall include premises, operations, blowout or
explosion, products, completed operations, blanket contractual liability,
underground property damage, broad form property damage, independent
contractors protective liability and personal injury;
         (b)   Environmental impairment. Environmental impairment (or seepage
and pollution) shall be either included in the coverage or written as separate
coverage, and shall be a minimum of $2,000,000. Such coverage shall not exclude
damage to the lease site. If environmental impairment (or seepage and
pollution) coverage is written on a “claims made” basis, the policy shall
provide that any retroactive date applicable precedes the effective date of the
issuance of the permit. Coverage shall apply to sudden and non-sudden pollution
conditions resulting from the escape or release of smoke, vapors, fumes, acids,
alkalis, toxic chemicals, liquids or gases, waste material or other irritants,
contaminants or pollutants; and
         (c)   Excess liability (umbrella). Excess liability insurance policy
with limits of liability of not less than $5,000,000 over the above required
general liability insurance policy. Excess policy must follow the form of the
underlying liability policy.
   (C)   Certificates filed with city; notice of cancellation.
      (1)   The permittee shall file with the City Clerk, certificates of said
insurance or bond.
      (2)   Said insurance policy or policies, or bonds shall not be canceled
without actual written notice received by the City Clerk at least 30 days prior
to the effective date of said cancellation. In the event said insurance policy
or policies are canceled, the permit granted shall terminate immediately, and
permittee’s rights to operate under said permit shall cease immediately until
permittee files additional insurance as provided herein. Further, if said
insurance policy or policies are canceled or allowed to expire, the Code
Official shall notify the electric company of the violation, and service to all
wells not conforming shall be discontinued immediately. For other wells (not
electric), an injunction will be filed immediately.
   (D)   Cash bond and agreement. The permittee may satisfy the bond
requirement as set out in subsection (A) above by furnishing the City with a
$200,000 cash bond which shall be governed by an agreement between the
permittee and the City. Said agreement and cash bond shall be conditioned by
all the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-7) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 9-13-8 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 9-13-9 COMMENCEMENT OF DRILLING OPERATIONS.
   Prior to the commencement of drilling operations upon a well site, written
notice must be given to the Code Official and his approval must be obtained.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-10.1) (Prior Code, § 9-13-9)
§ 9-13-10 DERRICKS AND RIGS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate in connection
with the drilling or reworking of any well within the City, any wooden derrick
or any steam powered rig; or to permit any drilling rig or derrick to remain on
the premises or drilling site for a period longer than 60 days after completion
or abandonment of the well.
      (2)   All engines required for operations after the well has been
completed as a producing well shall be electrically powered by electricity
produced by a regulated public utility.
      (3)   All rigs must be of a type using mud as a drilling fluid.
      (4)   The permittee shall keep a watchman on duty on the premises at all
times during drilling and/or completion operations from the start of the
erection of the derrick, or a mast, or gin pole, until the well is abandoned
and plugged, or completed as a producing well and enclosed within a fence as
required hereafter; provided that it shall not be necessary to keep an extra
watchman on duty on the premises when other workmen of the permittee are on the
premises.
   (B)   Height. Derrick heights shall not exceed the maximum allowable limit
within the airport restriction zones of Vance Air Force Base and Woodring
Municipal Airport.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-11) (Prior Code, § 9-13-10)
§ 9-13-11 MUD AND RESERVE PITS.
   All mud pits used to circulate fluids in and out of the hole during
drilling, reworking or completion procedures shall be made of steel. Pits used
only as reserve shall be permitted to be earthen pits, fully lined with
plastic, at least six mils thick, into which only nondeleterious substances may
be disposed. Deleterious substances may only be disposed of in a steel reserve
pit. Both deleterious and nondeleterious substances shall be removed to a
proper disposal facility within 15 days after completion of the well. Said
disposal facility shall be one which is approved for disposal by the Oklahoma
Corporation Commission. No earthen or steel reserve pit shall be located within
660 feet of any developed area, park, school, church, public building or place
of public assembly.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-12) (Prior Code, § 9-13-11)
§ 9-13-12 DISPOSAL OF DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Pollution; environmental hazards. Disposal of deleterious substances
shall not result in pollution of the waters or of the lands within the City,
shall not result in any other environmental hazard and shall incorporate the
best available techniques and equipment.
   (B)   Hazardous substance spill; notice; remedial action. In the event of
any leakage or spillage of any pollutant or any deleterious substance, whatever
the cause thereof, the permittee shall promptly notify the County Health
Department and the Code Enforcement Department of the City. If, in the judgment
of the Health Department, such leakage or spillage represents a potential
environmental hazard, said Department may issue whatever corrective orders it
deems appropriate, and, in addition, may require appropriate testing of the
surface and subsurface for pollution, the costs of such test or tests to be
borne by permittee.
   (C)   State rules and regulations adopted. Unless modified herein, the
general rules and regulations of the Oil and Gas Conservation Division of the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission are hereby adopted by reference and have the
same force and effect as if set forth at length herein. Not less than three
copies are now filed in the Office of the City Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-13) (Prior Code, § 9-13-12)
§ 9-13-13 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 9-13-14 VALVES AND BLOWOUT PREVENTERS.
   No well shall be drilled within the city limits without properly equipping
the surface casing when set with at least one master valve, and without
properly equipping the production casing when set with at least one master
valve and one fluid operated ram-type blowout preventer; and without properly
equipping the production casing during completion operations and work over
operations with at least one master valve and one fluid operated ram-type
blowout preventer. On each well drilled, a valve cock or kelly cock shall be
installed on the kelly used. Each blowout preventer shall test 1,000 pounds,
and its mechanical operation shall be tested to ensure proper and safe
operation. All control equipment shall be in good working condition and order
at all times.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-15) (Prior Code, § 9-13-14)
§ 9-13-15 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 9-13-16 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 9-13-17 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 9-13-18 GASEOUS DISCHARGES TO ATMOSPHERE.
   (A)   No gaseous discharges to the atmosphere will be permitted from any
producing well. The permittee shall use well maintained and adequate equipment
on site to gather any such gaseous discharge and prevent its being vented to
the atmosphere during the collection process, storage process or transportation
within the city limits.
   (B)   Flaring will be permitted for testing purposes and as needed to
complete the well; however, commencing 90 days after drilling operations on the
well cease, no flaring of gas will be permitted. All such gas must be captured,
and reinjected or collected in a low pressure system.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-19) (Prior Code, § 9-13-18)
§ 9-13-19 PREMISES KEPT CLEAN AND SANITARY.
   (A)   Removal of rubbish. The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, free from rubbish of every character, to the satisfaction of the
health officers of any public body, at all times drilling operations or
reworking operations are being conducted, and as long thereafter as oil or gas
is being produced therefrom.
   (B)   Storage of pipe, equipment. The well site shall not be used for the
storage of pipe, equipment (except for that equipment required for safety
purposes) or materials, except during the drilling or servicing of the well or
of the production facilities.
   (C)   Closing of open holes. All open holes excavated during drilling or
completion operations shall be closed when operations are completed or the well
is abandoned.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-20) (Prior Code, § 9-13-19)
§ 9-13-20 MOTIVE POWER AND MUFFLERS.
   The motive power for all operations after completion of drilling operations
shall be electricity produced off site.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-21) (Prior Code, § 9-13-20)
§ 9-13-21 STORAGE TANKS.
   (A)   Use restricted. No person shall use, construct or operate in
connection with any producing well within the city limits any crude oil storage
tanks, except to the extent of three steel or fiberglass tanks for oil or water
storage, not exceeding 500 barrels’ capacity each, and so constructed and
maintained as to be vapor tight or otherwise properly vented.
   (B)   Fire wall. Each tank shall be surrounded by an earthen fire wall at
such distance from the tanks as will, under any foreseeable circumstances, hold
and retain at least one-hundred-fifty percent (150%) of the maximum capacity of
such tank.
   (C)   Steel conventional separator. The permittee may use, construct and
operate a steel conventional separator, and such other steel tanks and
appurtenances as are necessary for treating oil, with each of such facilities
to be so constructed and maintained as to be vapor tight. Each oil/gas
separator shall be equipped with both a regulation pressure release safety
valve and a bursting head and shall be vented into a vessel of sufficient
capacity to contain any discharge.
   (D)   Location. No such tanks may be located within 300 feet of a residence
on a platted lot or parcel of land; or within 300 feet of any building or
structure not owned by the permittee, or permittee’s employees and contractors;
or within 300 feet of a fresh water well, unless said well is owned by the
permittee or leaseholder of the drilling site and/or was drilled by the
permittee for utilization in the drilling or production process.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-22) (Prior Code, § 9-13-21)
§ 9-13-22 FENCING, LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Fencing requirements.
      (1)   Any person who completes any well for production shall enclose said
well, together with all surface facilities and storage tanks and any other
facilities and appurtenances thereto, by a substantial fence properly built so
as to ordinarily keep persons and animals out of the enclosure.
      (2)   All gates thereto shall be kept locked when the permittee or his
employees are not within the enclosure.
      (3)   Nothing herein mandates all such facilities be within the same
fenced area and the City Manager, or his designate, shall be authorized to
approve any plan which he believes ordinarily protects persons and animals from
danger.
      (4)   Said fence must be erected within ten days after the completion of
the well.
   (B)   Screening requirements. Screening shall be required in areas of
operation which are in any developed area or within 1,000 feet of any developed
area, park, school, church, public building or place of public assembly.
Landscaping shall include screening by a fenced enclosure of at least eight
feet in height and constructed of one of the following materials:
      (1)   A solid masonry wall;
      (2)   A chainlink fabric with three and one-half inch mesh interwoven
with redwood slats or other opaque materials for use with chainlink fabric when
such materials are compatible with surrounding uses and effectively screen the
oil operation;
      (3)   Any other material, including trees and shrubs, compatible with
surrounding uses, which effectively screen the oil operation site; and
      (4)   All fencing, masonry walls, redwood slatting or other comparable
materials for use with chainlink fabric, shall be of a solid neutral color,
compatible with surrounding uses, and maintained in a neat, orderly, secure
condition. Neutral colors shall include sand, grey and unobtrusive shades of
green, blue and brown.
   (C)   Setbacks. Minimum setbacks for all screening shall in no case be less
than 25 feet from the ultimate right-of-way of any public street as defined in
the transportation plan of the City.
   (D)   Screening plan submittal; approval.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, a screening plan which meets
the requirements of this chapter shall be submitted for review and approval by
the City Manager, or his designate.
      (2)   Within 60 days after completion of drilling or redrilling, or
within 60 days after conversion of an abandoned well, any oil operation site in
an area as described in subsection (A) above shall be landscaped in conformance
with the plan, as approved, and the specification contained in this chapter.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-23) (Prior Code, § 9-13-22)
§ 9-13-23 MOVEMENT OF HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Written permission required. No person shall move, or cause to be
moved, over or across any paving or paved street or alley within the City, any
piece of machinery of extreme weight which exceeds the design limits of such
pavement without first having obtained express written permission from the City
Engineer.
   (B)   Movement regulated. Heavy equipment or vehicles used in the actual
transportation of oil, gas or deleterious substances shall only be moved or
caused to be moved upon “arterial streets”, as defined in the adopted
transportation plan of the City, or upon private roads, or upon written
approval from the City Engineer.
   (C)   Surfacing of private roads; exception. Prior to the commencement of
any drilling operations, all private roads used for access to the drill site
and the drill site itself shall be surfaced at least with crushed rock, gravel
or oiled and maintained to prevent dust and mud, except that such provisions
shall not apply if such access road intersects with any unpaved road.
   (D)   Cleaning trucks, city roads. All trucks, equipment or other vehicles
used in connection with any operations on the drill site shall be cleaned prior
to moving on any roads in the City. Furthermore, operators of such trucks,
equipment or other vehicles and the operator of any drill site shall clean any
road in the City upon which such trucks, equipment or vehicles travel, of any
dirt deposited thereby upon such road. Failure by either the operator of any
such truck, equipment or other vehicle or of the operator of any drill site to
comply with the provisions of this subsection (D) shall be an offense.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-24) (Prior Code, § 9-13-23)
§ 9-13-24 WELL LOCATION SETBACKS.
   No permit shall be issued for the drilling of an original well, or the
reentry of an abandoned well, at any location which is within 300 feet of any
residence, residential or commercial platted lot, commercial or office
building, producing fresh water well unless said well is owned by the permittee
or lease holder of the drilling site and/or was drilled by the permittee for
utilization in the drilling or production process or boundary line of any
property adjacent to the well site. No well shall be drilled or operated within
50 feet of any recovery heater, oil storage tank or source of ignition nor
within 300 feet of any building used as a place of public assembly,
institution, church or school. For the purposes of this section, the respective
300 feet shall be measured from any equipment, facilities or appurtenances
required for the oil and gas operations.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-25) (Prior Code, § 9-13-24)
§ 9-13-25 NOISE, DUST, ODORS AND OTHER NUISANCES.
   (A)   Reducing nuisance and annoyance.
      (1)   All oil or gas drilling and production operations shall be
conducted in such a manner as to eliminate, as far as practical, dust, noise,
vibration or noxious odors and shall be in accordance with the best accepted
practices incident to the drilling for, and production of, oil, gas and other
hydrocarbon substances.
      (2)   Proven technological improvements in exploration, drilling and
production methods shall be adopted as they become, from time to time, capable
of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance in accordance with prudent
practices in the industry.
   (B)   Noise reduction; hours of operation. At the time of authorizing the
permit or when renewal is granted, or at any time during the drilling
operation, the City may specify hours of operation to reduce or eliminate noise
when drilling takes place within 1,000 feet of a hospital, rest home, school
(including preschools and nurseries), church or place of public assembly. At no
time may an oil and gas operation exceed 75 decibels (dB). These limits do not
apply to emergency repairs necessary to meet safety requirements.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-25) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 9-13-26 FACILITIES; SIGN AND INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All lease equipment shall be painted and maintained in a good state of
appearance.
   (B)   The facilities shall have posted in a prominent place a metal sign no
less than two square feet in area upon which the following information shall be
conspicuous:
      (1)   Permittee’s name;
      (2)   Lease name;
      (3)   Location of the drill site by reference to the United States
survey; and
      (4)   Identifying number of the permit issued by the City.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-27) (Prior Code, § 9-13-26)
§ 9-13-27 FIRE PREVENTION.
   The permittee shall provide adequate firefighting apparatus and supplies
approved by the City Fire Department on the drilling site at all times during
drilling and production operations. All machinery, equipment and installations
on all drilling sites within the city limits shall conform with such
requirements as may, from time to time, be issued by the Fire Department.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-28) (Prior Code, § 9-13-27)
§ 9-13-28 FRACTURE AND ACIDIZING.
   On the completion of an oil or gas production well, where acidizing or
fracturing processes are used, no oil, gas or other deleterious substances or
pollutants shall be permitted to pollute any surface or subsurface fresh waters
on any land.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-29) (Prior Code, § 9-13-28)
§ 9-13-29 PLUGGING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Responsibility for plugging. The permittee and operator of any oil,
gas, injection or other service well, or any seismic core or other exploratory
hole, whether cased or uncased, shall be jointly and severally liable and
responsible for the plugging thereof, in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Environmental
Protection Agency. No surface casing nor conductor string may be pulled or
removed from the well.
   (B)   Intention to plug, copy filed with City; notice.
      (1)   A copy of “intention to plug” for each well shall be filed with the
Code Official at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of plugging
operations.
      (2)   The plugging operator shall notify the Code Official of the exact
time or times during which all plugging operations will take place to enable
the Code Official to be present if he so chooses.
      (3)   The Code Official may waive or reduce the 48-hour notice
requirement whenever a qualified representative of the Conservation Division of
the Oklahoma Corporation Commission is available to supervise the plugging
operation.
   (C)   Record sent to Code Official. A copy of the plugging record will be
sent to the Code Official no later than 30 days after a well has been plugged.
   (D)   Restoration of lands upon ceasing of operation. Within 30 days of
ceasing operations voluntarily or of abandonment, all lands upon which a
drilling or production operation was conducted shall be restored as nearly as
practicable to the previous topography by the permittee and the operator.
   (E)   Failure to comply; plugging and restoration by City. Upon the failure
to comply with this section, the City (directly or under contract with others)
may proceed to plug the well, restore the surface and recover its costs under
the bonds.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-30) (Prior Code, § 9-13-29)
§ 9-13-30 RUPTURE OF SURFACE CASING.
   In the event a rupture, break or opening occurs on the surface or production
casing, the permittee, the operator and the drilling contractor shall each take
action to repair it, and shall each report the incident to the City promptly.
Actual repairs and actual reporting to the City by one shall be considered
adequate; however, a mistaken belief held in good faith that others have
performed as required does not relieve the permittee, the operator or the
drilling contractor of their independent obligations, nor does it provide a
defense to a prosecution for violation of this section.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-31) (Prior Code, § 9-13-30)
§ 9-13-31 DEPOSITING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   Deposits prohibited. No person shall deposit, drain or divert
intentionally, negligently or accidentally into or upon any public highway,
street, alley, paving, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, creek,
stream, river, lake, pond or lagoon, any hazardous materials, deleterious
substances or pollutants or in any manner permit by seepage, overflow or
otherwise, any of such substances to escape from any property owned, leased or
controlled by such person; nor shall any person allow such substances to flow
or be carried onto or upon any public highway, street, alley, paving, drainage
ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, creek, stream, river, lake, pond or lagoon
within the City.
   (B)   Violation; liability for cleanup and costs. Any person or property
owner who commits a violation of this section shall be liable for the proper
mitigation, cleanup, disposing and transportation of the materials to a
regulated hazardous materials dump site at a maximum rate of $250 per hour per
city vehicle used in the cleanup, disposing or transporting of such materials,
plus the actual cost of any supplies, equipment and/or materials used by the
City. If it is necessary for the City to hire independent contractors to assist
in the cleanup, the person or property owner who commits such a violation shall
remit to the City the cost of any necessary supplies, equipment, materials and/
or services.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-32) (Prior Code, § 9-13-31)
§ 9-13-32 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   Precautions for protection of public. Persons drilling, operating or
maintaining a well shall use all necessary care and take all precautions which
are reasonably necessary under the circumstances to protect the public.
   (B)   Compliance with chapter; minimum requirements. Provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to be the minimum requirements for the preservation of
the public peace, health, safety and welfare; compliance with the terms hereof
shall not be deemed to relieve any person of any additional duty imposed by
law.
   (C)   Sign required. A sign measuring 24 inches by 30 inches, containing the
name, address and emergency phone number of the oil producing company and
operator shall be posted prominently on the gate to the well site.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-33) (Prior Code, § 9-13-32)
§ 9-13-33 APPEALS.
   (A)   Right to appeal; variance.
      (1)   Whenever the Code Official shall reject or refuse to approve a
permit, the operator, or his duly authorized agent, may appeal from the
decision of the Code Official to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   A variance granted under this section authorizes the Code Official
to issue an oil and gas drilling and production permit.
      (3)   When the appellant files a request for appeal on the basis of
written certification as herein provided and has not otherwise met the permit
application requirements of this chapter, a variance granted under this section
authorizes the Code Official to issue a permit only at such time as all other
requirements for permitting have been met.
   (B)   Notice of appeal.
      (1)   Notice of appeal shall be in writing, stating the basis for appeal
and filed within 20 days after the decision is rendered by the Code Official.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall receive notice of appeals on behalf of the
Board of Adjustment and shall forward said notices to the Clerk of the Board of
Adjustment.
   (C)   Jurisdiction of Board Of Adjustment; filing fee. The Board of
Adjustment shall have jurisdiction to act on appeals as authorized by this
section upon payment of a filing fee in the amount provided for in §
2-6B-17(C) at the Office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   Publication; notice to abutting property owners.
      (1)   The notice of appeal shall be published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City, not less than 20 days prior to
the date of hearing of the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   In addition thereto, such notice shall be mailed by the City Clerk
to all record owners of property within a 300-foot radius of the exterior
boundary of the drilling site not less than 20 days prior to the date of
hearing. The names and addresses of property owners within a 300-foot radius
shall be determined by a certificate provided by the applicants from a licensed
and bonded abstracting company.
      (3)   The applicants shall pay the City in advance for the actual
expenses of the mailed notice and certificates of mailing in addition to any
fees due.
   (E)   Notice to hospitals, schools. All hospitals and schools, whether
public or private, shall be entitled to notice by mail, as described above, if
they are within one-half mile of the exterior boundary of the lease.
(1994 Code, § 23.5-34) (Prior Code, § 9-13-33)
§ 9-13-34 ZONING.
   Permits shall be issued only on unplatted land zoned A Agriculture or I-
3 Heavy Industrial as provided by the zoning ordinance of the City, or as
provided by §
9-13-6(A).
(1994 Code, § 23.5-35) (Prior Code, § 9-13-34)
§ 9-13-35 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate, or fail
to comply with, any provisions hereof.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or
any of the provisions of the drilling and operating permit issued pursuant
hereto, or any condition of the bond filed by the permittee pursuant to this
chapter, or who shall neglect to comply with the terms thereof, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-35) (Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-4-2018)
CHAPTER 14: TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL WORK FORCE HOUSING PARKS
Section
   
9-14-1   Purpose and intent
   
9-14-2   Definitions
   
9-14-3   Temporary industrial work force housing park licensing requirements
   
9-14-4   Occupancy permit
   
9-14-5   Location restrictions
   
9-14-6   Insect, rodent and weed control
   
9-14-7   Inspections
   
9-14-8   Communicable disease reports
   
9-14-9   Sanitation generally
   
9-14-10   Dimensional and site development requirements
   
9-14-11   Water supply
   
9-14-12   Sewage disposal
   
9-14-13   Natural gas
   
9-14-14   Electricity
   
9-14-15   Fire protection
   
9-14-16   Refuse disposal
   
9-14-17   Administrative buildings
   
9-14-18   Violation
§ 9-14-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish and provide minimum
acceptable standards, requirements and regulations for the planned use,
development and maintenance of temporary industrial work force housing parks
within the corporate limits of the City, for the protection of the health,
safety and general welfare. The standards, requirements and regulations are
provided to encourage temporary industrial work force housing development and
maintenance in locations and in a manner for safe and sanitary living
conditions and convenience for the purpose of employment, shopping, education
and the availability of other necessary community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-1) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A portable or mobile living unit used for temporary
occupancy away from the principal place of residence.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in the development or planning of a temporary
industrial work force housing park.
   EXPANSION. The increasing of either the total land area of a temporary
industrial work force housing park, or the total number of units.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The Oklahoma Department of Health as represented by the
county health unit or its authorized representative of the City.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home that has a toilet and bath or shower.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a temporary industrial
work force housing park, under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. Any portable or mobile vehicle, trailer or house trailer used
or designed for living purposes which has flush toilet and bath or shower
facilities.
   MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled travel vehicle designed as one unit to be used
principally as a dwelling for vacation use and can be operated independently of
utility connections, excluding pickup campers.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Code Official permitting
the placement of a mobile home within a temporary industrial work force housing
park.
   PARK MANAGEMENT. The person who owns or has charge, care or control of a
temporary industrial work force housing park.
   SEWER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage serving the temporary industrial
work force housing park.
   TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL WORK FORCE HOUSING PARK DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan
bearing the written approval by signature and seal of a registered architect,
engineer or land surveyor licensed in the state, showing all existing
conditions of a proposed temporary industrial work force housing park site, and
the preliminary plans on a topographic map of the proposed development,
including all buildings, improvements and facilities existing or to be
constructed therein.
   TEMPORARY WORK FORCE HOUSING. Temporary manufactured housing units with
dormitories, laundry facilities, recreation halls, commercial kitchens and
dining facilities to support a temporary labor force.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A portable unit designed principally as a temporary vacation
dwelling to be towed on its own chassis by a passenger automobile, and can be
operated independently of utility connections. The term shall not include
camping trailers.
   WATER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the temporary industrial work force housing park.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-2) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-3 TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL WORK FORCE HOUSING PARK LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for license; general requirements.
      (1)   Contents of application. Every person, firm or corporation desiring
to create, establish, develop or construct a temporary industrial work force
housing park, or expand a temporary industrial work force housing park, shall
make written application, upon forms to be provided, to the Code Official for a
mobile home park license. Such written application shall include the following:
         (a)   Applicant’s name and mailing address; and
         (b)   Five copies of a temporary industrial work force housing park
development plan, to include the following, on a scaled drawing of an
appropriate dimension prepared by a registered engineer, architect or land
surveyor so indicated by signature and seal:
            1.   A north arrow, date, scale and appropriate legend;
            2.   Two-foot contour intervals;
            3.   Location and size of all easements, utilities and rights-of-
way, existing and proposed;
            4.   All public and private street names;
            5.   Location and size of all proposed structures, utility and
drainage easements, public streets and rights-of-way, private drives with
surface types, walkways, parking spaces with surface types, drainage
improvements, recreational spaces, screening, offices, laundry buildings and
any other contemplated permanent structures or improvements;
            6.   Location and size of all existing or proposed permanent
improvements, including pads, off street parking with surface types and
utilities;
            7.   All proposed front, side and rear yard setback distances;
            8.   Provisions for the adequate disposition of natural stormwater
in accordance with the adopted design criteria, standards and ordinances of the
City indicating the location, size, type and grade of ditches, catch basins and
pipes, and connections to existing drainage systems and on site stormwater
detention systems. All such design criteria shall be approved by the City
Engineer; and
            9.   Exit plan will include the removal of all structures,
aboveground utilities and paving materials, restoring the property to its
predevelopment condition.
      (2)   Site plan submittal; hearing. The temporary industrial work force
housing park site plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
review, study and recommendation. The same shall then be submitted to the City
Council for approval, denial or conditional approval only after said Board
conducts a public hearing concerning such development plan. Once approved, the
land covered by such temporary industrial work force housing park plan shall be
developed in accordance therewith as approved, and any change, modification,
revision or deviation therefrom may be grounds for the revocation of the
temporary industrial work force housing park license issued, and deemed a
violation of this chapter.
      (3)   City may require certain park modifications. The Planning
Commission or the City Council may require certain alterations, modifications
or amendments of the temporary industrial work force housing park development
plan when deemed necessary for the inclusion of easements, rights-of-way,
utilities or any other amendment necessary for the general welfare of the
public.
      (4)   Improvement bonds. Improvement bonds may also be required to be
furnished on the subject property for public streets, water lines, sewer lines,
drainage structures and all other public improvements.
      (5)   Cleanup bond. A cleanup bond equal to ten percent (10%) of the site
development costs (not including temporary housing units) shall be provided to
the City to be paid to the City in the event the developer does not comply with
the exit plan along with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   Inspection for compliance; license issuance; fee.
      (1)   Inspection. Upon completion of a temporary industrial work force
housing park or the expansion of a temporary industrial work force housing
park, the Code Official shall be immediately notified of the same by the
permittee. After such notification, the Code Official, without unnecessary
delay, shall cause there to be an inspection of the temporary industrial work
force housing park, and if the said temporary industrial work force housing
park has been developed and constructed in compliance with all the pertinent
provisions of this title and in accordance with the approved temporary
industrial work force housing park development plan, the license shall be
issued by the Director of Finance in the name of such person for the specific
temporary industrial work force housing park.
      (2)   Time limit. The license is valid for a maximum of five years.
      (3)   Renewal. Once the five-year license expires, it can be renewed in
one year increments when it is found there is a need for the temporary
industrial work force housing and there is no apparent danger to the health,
safety and welfare of the people of the City; the applicant, its officers or
agents, if any, are capable of operating the proposed temporary industrial work
force housing park in a manner consistent with the public health and safety;
the requirements of this chapter and of all other governing laws and ordinances
have been met. The renewed license shall be issued by the Director of Finance
in the name of such person for the specific temporary industrial work force
housing park.
      (4)   Fee. In addition to the requirements as set forth herein to obtain
a license for the operation of a temporary industrial work force housing park,
a fee as provided in §
2-6B-18 shall be paid to the City.
      (5)   Proration. All temporary industrial work force housing park
licenses shall expire June 30 and all fees for the ensuing year are due and
payable prior thereto. Original fees for a license may be prorated to June 30
of the following year, when appropriate.
   (C)   Suspension of license; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever, upon inspection of any temporary industrial work force
housing park, the Code Official or any other authorized city officers or
employees or the health authority finds that conditions or practices exist
which are in violation of any provision of this chapter, such inspecting
officer shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the license was
issued that such conditions or practices shall be corrected within a reasonable
period of time specified in the notice. At the end of such period, the party
issuing the notice shall reinspect such temporary industrial work force housing
park and, if such conditions or practices have not been corrected, he shall
file a complaint against the person to whom the license was issued for the
violation.
      (2)   If such person is found guilty by a municipal court, the license
shall be suspended after a hearing before the Code Official giving due process
and an opportunity to be heard.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-3) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-4 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No temporary industrial work force housing or mobile
home structure used as an office shall be occupied without the issuance of an
occupancy permit by the Code Official.
   (B)   Application for mobile home office permit. Any person desiring to move
a mobile home (office use) onto any temporary industrial work force housing lot
shall first make written application to the Code Official. Such application
shall include the following:
      (1)   Name. Applicant’s name;
      (2)   Title and location. Temporary industrial work force housing park
title and mobile home location within the park; and
      (3)   Permission for occupancy. If the mobile home is determined to be in
compliance with all applicable codes, permission shall be given for the mobile
home to be occupied as an office.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-4) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-5 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   All temporary industrial work force housing parks shall be situated only in
those districts where authorized by the zoning ordinances of the City and the
lot does not abut Highway 412/Owen K. Garriott or Highway 81/Van Buren, which
are as follows:
   (A)   Planned Industrial Park District, I-1;
   (B)   Light Industrial District, I-2;
   (C)   Heavy Industrial District, I-3; and
   (D)   Special Use District, SU, use by review.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-5) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-6 INSECT, RODENT AND WEED CONTROL.
   All temporary industrial work force housing parks shall comply with all
ordinances containing provisions dealing with weeds, debris, rodents, nuisances
or any other obnoxious element.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-6) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-7 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspection by city officials. The health authority, the Code Official
and other authorized city officers and employees shall make inspections to
determine the condition of temporary industrial work force housing parks in
order that they may perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of
the occupants therein and of the general public.
   (B)   Right of entry. Subject to constitutional limitations, the inspection
officials shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private or
public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Allowing inspectors free access. The owners or occupants of temporary
industrial work force housing parks or the person in charge thereof shall give
the inspection officials free access to such premises at reasonable times for
the purpose of inspection.
   (D)   Annual inspection of parks. All temporary industrial work force
housing parks shall be inspected annually before the reissuance of a license.
Alterations and repairs may be required before the temporary industrial work
force housing license is issued in order to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-7) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-8 COMMUNICABLE DISEASE REPORTS.
   Every owner, operator, attendant or other person operating a temporary
industrial work force housing park shall notify the health authority
immediately of any suspected communicable or contagious disease within the
temporary industrial work force housing park.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-8) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-9 SANITATION GENERALLY.
   The licensee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker, shall be in
charge at all times to keep the temporary industrial work force housing park,
its facilities and equipment, in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The
attendant or caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee, for the
violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-9) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-10 DIMENSIONAL AND SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Size; street frontage. No temporary industrial work force housing park
shall be developed, constructed or maintained on a lot or tract of land of less
than five acres fronting on a major or minor arterial street.
   (B)   Private streets; construction standards. All private streets within a
temporary industrial work force housing park may be constructed of gravel
material.
   (C)   Maintenance of streets. All private streets within a temporary
industrial work force housing park shall be maintained in good condition.
   (D)   Subdivision street paving standards. All public streets within a
temporary industrial work force housing park shall be constructed in accordance
with the subdivision street paving standards of the City, and approved by the
City Engineer.
   (E)   Drainage of surface water. Adequate facilities for drainage of surface
water shall be provided for within a temporary industrial work force housing
park, to include proper grading and, where necessary, the installation of
gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, storm and water sewers or other
satisfactory drainage systems.
   (F)   Drainage plans required; approval. All drainage plans shall be
prepared by a professional engineer and submitted to the City Engineer for
approval prior to the issuance of any temporary industrial work force housing
park permit.
   (G)   Buffer zones and screening.
      (1)   A buffer zone of not less than 50 feet in width from the property
line of a temporary industrial work force housing park shall be required to
provide a continuous buffer along all side and rear yards of the temporary
industrial work force housing park.
      (2)   A buffer zone of not less than 100 feet in depth shall be provided
to extend along the entire frontage of the temporary industrial work force
housing park where the said park abuts a public street.
      (3)   Screening of seventy-five percent (75%) opaque and six feet in
height by any combination of adequate fencing, landscaping or planting to
provide visual separation and privacy shall be provided where a temporary
industrial work force housing park abuts an incompatible use or residential
zoning district, and where existing foliage within the buffer zone provided is
not sufficient for screening purposes.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-10) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-11 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Potable supply required.
      (1)   An accessible adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each temporary industrial work force housing park.
      (2)   The development and use of an independent water supply to serve the
temporary industrial work force housing park shall be made only after express
approval has been granted by the health authority.
      (3)   Where a public supply of potable water is available pursuant to the
requirements of §
8-2-2 within the boundaries of the temporary industrial work force housing
park, connection shall be made thereto and its supply shall be used
exclusively.
   (B)   Connection to system. The water system of the temporary industrial
work force housing park shall be connected by pipes to all buildings.
   (C)   Construction and maintenance. All water piping shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with state and local plumbing codes. The water
piping system shall not be connected with nonpotable or questionable water
supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of backflow or
backsiphonage.
   (D)   Individual water system.
      (1)   Where an individual water system is used to serve the temporary
industrial work force housing park, the source, distribution and storage system
shall comply with the minimum requirements of the Oklahoma Department of Health
for public water supplies.
      (2)   Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any
water service.
   (E)   Water line compliance with city specifications. Water lines shall be
in accordance with city specification.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-11) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-12 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Compliance with state and local regulations. All plumbing in a
temporary industrial work force housing park shall comply with state and local
plumbing laws and regulations.
   (B)   Discharge into public sewer system. Waste from showers, bathtubs,
flush toilets, urinals, lavatories and slop sinks in service and other
buildings within the park shall be discharged into a public sewer system in
compliance with applicable ordinances.
   (C)   Sewer line construction. Sewer lines shall be constructed in
accordance with specifications of the Health Department and the City. All sewer
lines shall be adequately vented, and shall be laid with sufficient earth cover
to prevent breakage from traffic.
   (D)   Private disposal facilities; restrictions.
      (1)   Where the sewer lines of the temporary industrial work force
housing park cannot be connected to a public sewer, a method of sewage disposal
approved by the Health Department and city shall be provided. The design of
such sewage treatment facilities shall be based on the maximum capacity of the
temporary industrial work force housing park.
      (2)   Effluents from sewage treatment facilities shall not be discharged
into any water of the state except with prior approval of the appropriate state
authority and the Health Department.
      (3)   The disposal facilities shall be located where they will not create
a nuisance or health hazard to the temporary industrial work force housing park
or to the owner or occupants of any adjacent property.
      (4)   The approval of the Health Department and City shall be obtained on
the type of treatment proposed and on the design of the disposal plant prior to
construction.
   (E)   Plumbing alterations and repairs. All plumbing alterations and repairs
shall be made in accordance with applicable ordinances and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-12) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-13 NATURAL GAS.
   (A)   Compliance with state and local regulations. A natural gas system, if
utilized, shall be designed, installed and maintained in accordance with all
pertinent provisions of the applicable ordinances of the City and laws of the
state.
   (B)   Installation by licensed contractor. All gas piping shall be
installed, repaired and maintained by a licensed contractor only.
   (C)   Inspection and testing. The gas supply shall be connected in the
proper manner, ensuring that piping is properly purged and free from leaks. A
gas pressure inspection shall be required by the Code Official to ensure the
system is free from any leaks incurred during mobile home transport.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-13) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-14 ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   Design; lines underground. The electricity system shall be designed to
provide adequate capacity to supply the connected load without exceeding the
current carrying capacity of the connectors. All electrical lines shall be
placed underground, except for higher voltage lines, as determined by the
public utility.
   (B)   Compliance with regulations. All electrical work, alterations and
repairs shall be made in accordance with applicable ordinances and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-14) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-15 FIRE PROTECTION.
   The temporary industrial work force housing park area shall be subject to
the rules and regulations governing fire prevention and safety.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-15) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-16 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Removal by city. All refuse, debris, trash and garbage in a temporary
industrial work force housing park shall be removed by the City in accordance
with all ordinances.
   (B)   Collection and disposal. Methods and facilities for the collection,
storage, handling and disposal of garbage and refuse shall be provided for as
determined and in accordance with Title 8, Chapter 4 relating thereto.
   (C)   Refuse containers.
      (1)   All refuse containers shall be located upon a concrete pad in
designated areas for collection.
      (2)   In addition, all collection areas shall be screened on three sides
with fencing, vegetation or any combination thereof for a height of not less
than five feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-16) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-17 ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDINGS.
   One mobile home within a temporary industrial work force housing park may be
used as an administrative office. Other administrative offices and service
buildings for housing sanitation, laundry or other facilities shall be of
permanent structure, complying with all pertinent provisions of this code
relating to construction and maintenance, for the use of the entire park.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-17) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 9-14-18 VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, either by doing
anything which is prohibited or by failure or refusal to do anything which is
commended, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction, shall be
punished as indicated in the given section or if the section is silent, shall
pay a fine not exceeding $100 plus costs; providing that each violation shall
be deemed a separate offense and each day that a violation occurs shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-18) (Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 15: SALE OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY
Section
   
9-15-1   Commercial property sale, disclosures required
§ 9-15-1 COMMERCIAL PROPERTY SALE, DISCLOSURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   In the sale of commercial property, disclosure of city utilities
available, current zoning and hydrant flow availability shall be provided to
the potential purchaser at the time of contract negotiation, but in no event
later than 24 hours prior to closing on the purchase of the commercial
property. This will allow the purchaser to enter into the contract of sale
fully informed as to the state of these issues regarding the property to be
sold.
      (1)   The city utilities currently available at the property to be sold
shall be listed in their entirety. CURRENTLY AVAILABLE means utilities that can
be accessed without any further action on the part of any utility service
provider or any other third party.
      (2)   The current zoning for the property must be disclosed. Current
zoning is determined by the ordinances of the City.
      (3)   The hydrant flow availability for the property must be clearly
stated and verified by the City’s Fire Department personnel.
   (B)   Either the potential purchaser of the property, the seller of the
property or his representative may request this “required disclosure”
information from the City. This information may be obtained by filing a request
for this information from the Community Development Department.
   (C)   The City will provide the requested information at no cost within five
business days, unless actual hydrant flow testing is not available, in which
case the information will be released within ten days.
   (D)   A violation of subsections (A)(1) through (A)(3) above, a failure to
disclose to the purchaser of the commercial property utilities available, or
current zoning, or hydrant flow availability, shall result in a fine of $750 in
addition to fees and costs associated with the violation.
   (E)   A purchaser who has failed to receive disclosure of the current zoning
from the property is not exempt from any zoning restrictions.
   (F)   A purchaser who has failed to receive disclosure of hydrant flow
availability from the seller of the commercial property shall not be exempt
from satisfying the minimum fire flow requirements as set forth in Appendix B
of the International Fire Code (IFC), 2009 edition, as adopted by the City.
      (1)   The purchaser of the commercial property shall still be required to
meet the minimum fire flow requirements during ownership of the property
according to the approved method based upon the type of construction and square
footage of the fire area as set forth in Appendix B of the International Fire
Code (IFC), 2009 edition, as adopted by the City.
      (2)   The owner of the commercial property is under a continuing duty to
meet these minimum flow requirements throughout ownership as the type of
construction and square footage of the commercial property changes.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-1) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 1-7-2014)
TITLE 10: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
   Chapter
      
1.    METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COMMISSION
      
2.    BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
      
3.    HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
      
4.    GRADING, LAND SURFACE CHANGES AND NUMBERING BUILDINGS
      
5.    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND RECOVERY
      
6.    GROUP HOMES FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED
      
7.    SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 1: METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
10-1-1   Commission organization; agreement with county
   
10-1-2   Appointment; terms
   
10-1-3   Designation as City Planning Commission
§ 10-1-1 COMMISSION ORGANIZATION; AGREEMENT WITH COUNTY.
   The City has availed itself of the provisions of 19 O.S. §§ 866.1 through
866.34 and entered into an agreement with the Board of County Commissioners of
Garfield County for the organization of a Metropolitan Area Planning
Commission.
§ 10-1-2 APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (A)   Appointment of members. The Mayor, by and with the consent of the
Board of Commissioners, is hereby authorized and directed to appoint four
members of this Commission as provided by law. The Mayor may also appoint one
of the Board of Commissioners to serve as an ex officio member of this
Commission. The Mayor and Board of Commissioners are authorized to appoint one
additional member of the Commission. Appointees shall be residents of the City
for a period of three years or more immediately preceding their appointment and
shall hold no other municipal office except those expressly provided for by
state law.
   (B)   Term of office. The members of this Commission shall hold office for a
term of four years or until their successors are appointed and qualified. The
appointments shall be made in such a manner that the term of every member shall
expire in March of each year.
§ 10-1-3 DESIGNATION AS CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Metropolitan Area Planning Commission is hereby designated as the
Planning Commission for the City.
CHAPTER 2: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Section
   
10-2-1   Board created
   
10-2-2   Membership; appointment
   
10-2-3   Meetings and rules
§ 10-2-1 BOARD CREATED.
   Whereas, the City is exercising zoning powers as conferred by 11 O.S. §§ 43-
101 through 43-109, the City hereby provides for the appointment of a Board of
Adjustment.
§ 10-2-2 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Appointment. This Board shall consist of five residents of the City,
each appointed by the City Council, for a term of three years.
   (B)   Chairman. The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairman and Vice
Chairman from its membership. The Chairman and Vice Chairman shall serve as
such for the term of their appointment.
   (C)   Compensation. All members of the Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Removal; hearing. A Board member may be removed by the City Council
for cause upon the filing of written charges and after a public hearing before
the City Council.
   (E)   Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member in the manner set forth for appointments to a full term.
   (F)   Term limit. No person shall serve more than two terms in succession.
However, partial terms shall not be considered in determining the term limit.
§ 10-2-3 MEETINGS AND RULES.
   (A)   Rules.
      (1)   Meetings of this Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman
and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.
      (2)   The Chairman, or in his absence the Vice Chairman, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (3)   The Board shall be subject to the Open Meeting Laws of the state,
see 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq., and all voting of the Board shall be open to the
public.
      (4)   A city staff member shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each Board member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep record of all official actions.
   (B)   Scheduled meetings. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held
at 4:00 p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month. Additional meetings may be
held upon determination of the Board.
   (C)   Voting. The concurring vote of at least three members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
being appealed from, to decide in favor of the applicant, or to decide any
matter which may properly come before it pursuant to Title 11.
CHAPTER 3: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Section
   
10-3-1   Creation of Historic Preservation Commission
   
10-3-2   Members
   
10-3-3   Terms; compensation
   
10-3-4   Meeting and rules
   
10-3-5   Duties
§ 10-3-1 CREATION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created the Historic Preservation Commission of the City.
The Metropolitan Area Planning Commission will be select one of its members to
serve on this Commission. The other members shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Board of Commissioners. In making appointments the
Mayor shall maintain a balance of interests and skills by assessing the
individual’s qualifications, including, but not limited to, their knowledge or
interest in any one or more of the following: architecture, history, landscape
architecture, structural engineering, lending and finance and commerce. All
members shall have knowledge of, and interest in, historic preservation and
will have demonstrated their civic interest and knowledge of the history of the
community.
§ 10-3-2 MEMBERS.
   This Commission shall be composed of the following persons, all of whom
shall be residents of the City.
   (A)   One member shall be a registered architect, or if no registered
architect is willing to serve, an individual with a demonstrated interest in
historic preservation or experience in restoration.
   (B)   One member shall be a historian.
   (C)   One member shall be an attorney.
   (D)   One member shall be a licensed real estate broker or a banker.
   (E)   One member of the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission who shall be
elected by the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission.
   (F)   One member from each designated Historic Preservation District within
the City.
§ 10-3-3 TERMS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The terms for each member shall be two years or until his successor
takes office.
   (B)   Members may be appointed to fill the remainder of a vacant term. There
is no limitation on serving consecutive terms.
   (C)   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
§ 10-3-4 MEETING AND RULES.
   (A)   The Commission shall be empowered to adopt rules for the conduct of
its business. The Commission shall elect a Chairman who shall serve for one
year and who shall be eligible for reelection. The Commission shall elect a
Vice Chairman who shall serve for one year and who shall be eligible for
reelection.
   (B)   All meetings of the Commission shall be held as determined by the
Commission at a frequency and at time determined and delivered to the City
Clerk before December 15 of each year and shall be open to the public. Meetings
may be canceled if there is no business to be conducted. Special meetings may
be called as needed.
   (C)   Any person, or his duly appointed representative, shall be entitled to
appear and be heard on any matter before the Commission.
   (D)   The Commission shall keep a record of its proceedings, a copy of which
shall be filed for public view in the Office of the City Clerk.
   (E)   No business of the Commission may be conducted unless a quorum of not
less than five members is present. A simple majority of those present is
sufficient to approve or disprove any act or action of this Commission.
   (F)   The Planning Administrator, or the designated representative of such
Administrator, shall act as secretary of the Commission and shall attend and
keep the minutes of all meetings. This person shall act in an advisory capacity
only and may participate in the Commission’s discussions but shall have no
vote. The Planning Administrator and the staff of the Community Development
Department shall assist the Commission in discharging its duties.
§ 10-3-5 DUTIES.
   Unless otherwise specified in §§
11-10B-1 through
11-10B-19, the duties of the Historic Preservation Commission shall include,
but may not be limited to, the duty to:
   (A)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, a comprehensive inventory of
historic, architectural and archaeological resources within the City;
   (B)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, a general historic preservation plan
to be incorporated within the Comprehensive Plan of the City;
   (C)   Prepare findings of fact relating to the recommendation for
designation of historic, architectural and archaeological resources;
   (D)   Prepare findings of fact pursuant to action taken by the Commission
relating to certificates of appropriateness;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the acquisition of
development rights, facade easements and the development of historic
preservation plans;
   (F)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning grants from
federal and state agencies, private groups and individuals and the utilization
of budgetary appropriations to promote the preservation of historic,
architectural or archaeological resources; and, when so directed by the City
Council, may oversee historic projects or programs;
   (G)   Increase public awareness of the value of historic, architectural or
archaeological resources by developing and participating in public information
programs and by recommending the update of the preservation program and by the
giving of advice to owners or residents of such resources as to the problems
and techniques of preservation work; and further, by placing monuments and
markers at historic sites as chosen by the Commission;
   (H)   Comment and make recommendations concerning actions undertaken by
other city agencies or actions of other governmental units with respect to the
effect of such actions upon historic, architectural and archaeological
resources;
   (I)   Conduct a periodic review of the status of designated landmarks and
historic districts and provide periodic reports on the findings of said review,
along with any resolutions for action, as considered appropriate, to the City
Council; and
   (J)   Review requests for demolition of properties listed in the National
Register of Historic Places and make comments and recommendations to the
property owners with respect to the degree to which the proposed removal of the
historic structure would serve to change the overall historic culture of the
community.
CHAPTER 4: GRADING, LAND SURFACE CHANGES AND NUMBERING BUILDINGS
Section
   
10-4-1   Grading or land surface changes
   
10-4-2   Numbering required
   
10-4-3   System of numbering
   
10-4-4   Dividing line for numbering purposes
   
10-4-5   Division of streets for numbering purposes
   
10-4-6   One number per lot; irregular sized lots
   
10-4-7   Duty of owners and agents to number buildings
§ 10-4-1 GRADING OR LAND SURFACE CHANGES.
   (A)   Permit required; fee.
      (1)   No person shall change the grade of any land (filling, excavating
or raising) by one foot or more or change the permeable nature of the surface
of the soil without first having obtained a permit from the City Engineer,
which may require a drainage report.
      (2)   The application for such permit shall show the amount of the fill
to be made, the substance to be used for the fill and the general topography of
the land of the applicant and the land surroundings.
      (3)   A fee in the amount provided in §
2-6F-12 shall be submitted with the application to cover the cost of plan
review.
      (4) After filing an application, the City Engineer shall inspect the
premises to be graded or changed and shall issue the permit if it is determined
by said inspection the grading or changing would not obstruct or change the
capacity of any drainage channel or waterway or cause floodwaters to invade
other areas and that it is not in violation of this section.
   (B)   Fill materials. No debris, noxious or organic material shall be used
for a fill or to raise or level ground, at any place in any amount.
§ 10-4-2 NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   All buildings and residences in the City shall be numbered and lettered as
provided in this chapter.
§ 10-4-3 SYSTEM OF NUMBERING.
   The system of numbering shall be as follows.
   (A)   Blocks. Each block shall contain not more than 100 numbers, beginning
at a point on Broadway and Grand Avenue, east from Grand Avenue on Broadway
Street the numbering shall be as follows.
      (1)   The first building on the south side of Broadway Street and east on
Grand Avenue shall be number 101.
      (2)   The first building on the north side of Broadway and east of Grand
Avenue shall be number 102, and so on throughout the entire block.
      (3)   The first building on the south side of Broadway Street east of
Second Street shall be number 201, and so on throughout the entire length of
said street to its eastern terminus.
      (4)   The same system of numbering shall apply on Broadway west of Grand
Avenue beginning with number 101 on the south side of the first block and
number 201 on the south side of the second block and so to the western terminus
of said street.
   (B)   Streets running north and south. The numbering of the streets running
north and south shall be as follows.
      (1)   Using Broadway as the dividing line, the even numbers shall be on
the west side of the streets running north and south and the odd numbers on the
east side of the streets running north and south.
      (2)   The same system of numbering shall apply on all streets running
north and south beginning south of Broadway at number 101 and so on up to the
southern terminus of said street.
§ 10-4-4 DIVIDING LINE FOR NUMBERING PURPOSES.
   Broadway running east and west in the City shall be the dividing line north
and south and Grand Avenue running north and south shall be the dividing line
east and west.
§ 10-4-5 DIVISION OF STREETS FOR NUMBERING PURPOSES.
   All streets north of Broadway running north and south shall be known as
North Grand Avenue or North Independence Avenue and the like, and all streets
south of Broadway, South Grand Avenue or South Independence Avenue, as the case
may be. All streets running east and west shall be designated as follows: Those
west of Grand Avenue shall be known as West Monroe or West Broadway as the case
may be, and those east of Grand Avenue shall be known as East Monroe or East
Broadway as the case may be.
§ 10-4-6 ONE NUMBER PER LOT; IRREGULAR SIZED LOTS.
   In the business and residence districts, each 25-foot lot shall be entitled
to a number. If there is more than one place of business on any 25-foot lot,
each place of business shall be entitled to a letter. All building numbering,
lettering or addressing shall be designated by the Code Official.
§ 10-4-7 DUTY OF OWNERS AND AGENTS TO NUMBER BUILDINGS.
   Owners or agents of buildings erected shall, within ten days after the
erection of such buildings, cause to be placed thereon the numbers or letters
of such buildings provided for in this chapter.
CHAPTER 5: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND RECOVERY
Section
   
10-5-1   Purpose
   
10-5-2   Definitions
   
10-5-3   Capital improvement requirements
   
10-5-4   Capital recovery for public improvements
   
10-5-5   Capital recovery special conditions for sanitary sewer improvements
   
10-5-6   Special conditions for stormwater improvements
   
10-5-7   Special conditions for water improvements
   
10-5-8   Special conditions for transportation improvements
   
10-5-9   City as developer
§ 10-5-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage uniform and comprehensive
improvement of the City’s public infrastructure systems; to provide for the
equitable distribution of costs of these improvements; and to protect the
general health, safety and welfare of the residents of the City.
§ 10-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADT. The average daily traffic count for a street based upon the 24-hour
volume over a specified number of days.
   ALLOWABLE COST. The cost of a capital recovery public improvement including
the cost of the construction, inspection fees, easements and rights-of-way
acquisition (at or below appraised value), advertising and recording and
engineering fees capped at seven percent (7%) of the bid construction amount
for a qualified project.
   ALLOWABLE RECOVERY COST (ARC). The amount, in dollars, of money subject to
collection based on an increased capacity improvement project.
   APPRAISED VALUE. The value of real property as determined by an independent
appraiser who is certified by the state.
   AREA OF IMPACT (AI). The area that receives a benefit from the installation
of the improvement.
   BUA. The undeveloped area in a particular area of impact in acres.
   “C” FACTOR. The coefficient of stormwater runoff as established in the
City’s Chart of Land Uses versus the average slope of the drainage area.
   CFS. Cubic feet per second.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. An improvement of the public infrastructure with a
value of $50,000 or more.
   CONNECTION. The tapping into a public utility line, or physical work that
allows a capital improvement to be used.
   DEVELOPER. The person, company or firm that is making the capital
improvement to service a development site. The City and its trusts may be
considered the DEVELOPER when it is the entity making the improvement.
   DEVELOPMENT. The act of improving property by subdividing, site planning,
construction on lot or building permitting.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. The subdivision area, site plan area, building site or
tract of land on which the development occurs.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area of land that stormwater would drain to or through at
a specified point.
   DRAINAGE SUBBASIN. An area within a drainage area to which drainage would
contribute to a submain of a sewer.
   FLOW CAPACITY. The flow rate of water that a channel will transfer within
its banks or the design capacity of a utility line or a transportation system.
   FLOW (Q). Volume over time calculated in cubic feet per second for water.
   FULLY DEVELOPED. A condition where the acreage within the associated area of
impact (AI) is considered to have been altered from its natural state to a
state that is consistent with the use identified in the most recent version of
the City’s Comprehensive Plan.
   GPD. Gallons per day.
   IMPROVEMENT. The construction of public infrastructure that connects an area
where city water, sewer, transportation or stormwater drainage systems were
previously unavailable or a developer’s upgrade to the existing systems.
   IMPROVEMENT COST. The actual cost of construction of the required capital
improvement including any approved change orders based upon bidding in
compliance with the Oklahoma Public Competitive Bidding Act, see 61 O.S. §§ 101
et seq., including noncollusion standards, the cost of easements and rights-of-
way at or below the appraised values, the cost of advertising and recording,
the cost of inspection by the City and the cost of engineering as provided in
this chapter.
   INCREASED CAPACITY. Capacity of a capital improvement project beyond the
capacity required for the development site providing the improvement.
   INCREASED CAPACITY AGREEMENT. The contract between the City, and the
“developer”, concerning the construction, operation and maintenance of an
increased capacity capital improvement system and payment of increased capacity
fees.
   INCREASED CAPACITY FEE (ICF). The amount of money to be paid by the post-
improvement developer for use of his proportionate share of the increased
capacity of an improvement constructed under §
10-4-4 . The FEE is paid to the City, for the user’s benefit of increased
capacity of the improvement. Such FEE shall be based upon the cost of providing
the increased capacity.
   LATERAL SEWER. A gathering sewer main of eight inches in diameter or more
and which function is to convey sewage from user service lines to the submain
or main sewer.
   MAIN DRAINAGE CHANNELS. Those channels identified by FEMA, Stormwater Master
Plan or otherwise designated in this chapter.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR STORM EVENT. A rain event that has a one percent (1%)
chance of occurring in any year.
   PEAK HOURLY WASTEWATER FLOW RATE. The maximum flow rate sustained for one
hour during a 24-hour period.
   PEAK STORMWATER DISCHARGE. The maximum flow rate that a particular
development will discharge based upon a 100-year storm event, as determined by
the engineer’s drainage report approved by the City.
   POST-IMPROVEMENT DEVELOPMENT. After the capital recovery, increased capacity
improvement is in place, any development that occurs in an area of impact or
any development that receives direct benefit from an increased capacity
improvement.
   PROJECTED TOTAL BASIN IMPACT. The total increase in the peak flow or use of
infrastructure compared to the full development condition. For stormwater, it
is the peak discharge of a basin from its existing condition prior to the
stormwater improvement compared to the full development condition.
   SERVICE LINE. That portion of a water or sanitary sewer line extending from
the public utility line or water meter to serve the customer.
   SEWER CAPACITY. The quantity of sewage that can be conveyed through a given
sewer flowing at its design peak level.
   SEWER MAIN. A sewer whose function is to convey sewage gathered from a
number of lateral sewers or submain sewers to a trunk line or treatment plant.
   SEWER SUBMAIN. Any sewer whose function is to convey sewage from lateral
sewers to a sewer main.
   STORMWATER. Rain runoff, snowmelt runoff, surface runoff, street wash waters
related to street cleaning and maintenance, infiltration (other than
infiltration contaminated by seepage from sanitary sewers or other discharges)
and drainage.
   STORMWATER CHANNELS. All natural and manmade structures, which convey
surface flood runoff water within the jurisdictional boundaries of the City.
   WATER LINE. All water mains, valves and hydrants which are laid, placed or
constructed in a public street, alley or easement and form a part of the water
system of the City.
   WATER MAIN CAPACITY. The quantity of water that can be conveyed through a
water main, flowing at its designed peak level.
§ 10-5-3 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The purpose of this section is to identify capital improvements required to
be provided by developers.
   (A)   Water system.
      (1)   New development sites shall extend the public water system across
the length of the subdivision or developed site.
      (2)   Water system improvements shall comply with §
8-2-14 and the City’s Engineering Design Standards.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer system.
      (1)   New development sites shall extend the public sanitary sewer system
to the site and to a point ten feet within all lots within the new development.
      (2)   Sanitary sewers shall comply with the City’s Engineering Design
Standards and shall be constructed to the size requirement specified in the
City’s Sanitary Sewer Master Plan, but not less than the capacity required for
the development site.
   (C)   Stormwater system.
      (1)   New development shall provide improvement of the public stormwater
system to transport stormwater through the development site in accordance with
Title 12, “Subdivisions”.
      (2)   New development shall mitigate the impact from the development site
by improving the downstream drainage ways to comply with Title 12, or provide
an improvement to mitigate the impact by on site detention or other acceptable
means. The mitigation shall cover the impact from the development site to the
main drainage channel as defined in the City’s Stormwater Master Plan.
   (D)   Transportation system.
      (1)   New development shall provide public roads within the development
that are in compliance with Title 12.
      (2)   Subdivision development on arterial streets shall provide
acceleration and deceleration lanes, per Title 12.
      (3)   Development, under Title 11, Chapter 11, shall provide public
infrastructure improvements as required by the site plan process to provide for
adequate and safe vehicular access to adjacent streets.
   (E)   Sidewalks. New development and redevelopment shall provide sidewalks
in accordance with §§
10-7-1 and
12-8-7 .
   (F)   Fire protection system. New development and redevelopment shall
provide fire hydrants in accordance with the International Fire Code as adopted
by the City.
§ 10-5-4 CAPITAL RECOVERY FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Approval of increased capacity capital improvements.
      (1)   Application for increased capacity capital improvement. A developer
desiring to make an increased capacity capital improvement under this chapter
shall apply in writing to the City Engineering Department for consideration of
the improvement for capital recovery prior to completion of the project. The
application shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the developer making the application;
         (b)   A detailed drawing of the proposal, indicating the area to be
served, proposed location of the new improvement, location of existing services
in close proximity and the proposed point of connection;
         (c)   Estimates of improvement cost, allowable recovery cost and
proposed excess capacity fee;
         (d)   Proposed area of impact, with a map and necessary legal
descriptions;
         (e)   Proposed routing of capital improvements with coordination of
drainage and other public utility services;
         (f)   Estimate of increased capacity to be provided by the project;
         (g)   A certified list of properties and owners within the area of
impact;
         (h)   Additional requirements as set out in the sections for water,
sanitary sewer, stormwater and transportation; and
         (i)   Any other information pertinent to the proposal.
      (2)   Review and approval procedure. After the application has been
reviewed and found to be acceptable and complete, the application will be
forwarded to the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission for approval and then to
the City Council for action.
      (3)   Increased capacity development agreement conditions. Upon approval
of the application by the City Commission, an increased capacity development
agreement should be entered into between the initial developer and the City,
which should address the following items.
         (a)   The developer will prepare and furnish plans, profiles, contract
documents and specifications for the qualified improvements, all in accordance
with the ordinances, regulations and specifications of the City.
         (b)   All construction will be of the size, type and depth in
accordance with city standards and of sufficient capacity to serve the
anticipated need for the area being served, as defined by the City’s Master
Plans, for the design life of the improvements.
         (c)   The developer shall acquire easements and rights-of-way
necessary to construct improvements. The easements shall be dedicated to the
City, approved by the City and recorded at the expense of the developer. The
easements will be located so as to be reasonably accessible to all parties that
may be anticipated to access the improvement.
         (d)   The developer shall file with the City an engineer’s estimate of
the cost of construction of said improvements, prepared by a licensed engineer,
registered in the state, as called for in this chapter.
         (e)   The developer shall deposit with the City the estimated amount
of all inspection and administration fees, if and when such fees are required.
         (f)   The developer shall furnish a “record drawing” on compatible
digital format, approved by the City prior to acceptance of improvements.
         (g)   After completion and acceptance of the developer’s improvement,
said improvements shall become a part of the city system, under its exclusive
control and operation.
         (h)   The developer shall, within 30 days after completion of the
construction, furnish to the City a certified, itemized statement of the cost
of the improvements, including the actual cost of construction, engineering,
inspections, easements, rights-of-way and recording fees.
         (i)   The developer shall provide a map and boundary description of
all property in the area of impact covered by the agreement.
         (j)   The developer shall provide a one-year warranty on all qualified
improvements.
   (B)   Qualified improvements.
      (1)   Improvement to system. The project must be an improvement to the
city public infrastructure system and provide excess capacity for use beyond
the amount required for the development site that is undertaking the qualified
improvement.
      (2)   Public benefit. The improvement must provide a public benefit and
provide a benefit or service to other property.
      (3)   Project requirements. The project must:
         (a)   Be consistent with the City’s Master Plans; or
         (b)   Encourage infill development.
      (4)   Standards, size, depth requirements. The project shall conform to
the standards, size and depth requirements of the City’s Master Plans on file
in the Engineering Department of the City and the city standards.
   (C)   Allowable recovery cost. This section sets out how the developer’s
costs for increased capacity in an improvement is calculated for the purpose of
establishing an amount of money from which recovery by postimprovement
developers can be derived, as well as the determination of the area of impact
for recovery.
      (1)   Allowable cost. The aggregate cost of the qualified portion of the
improvement cost, including the developer’s actual cost of construction,
inspection fees, easements and rights-of-way acquisition cost (at or below
appraised value), advertising and recording cost and engineering fees capped at
seven percent (7%) of the bid construction amount for a qualified project. The
allowable cost shall not exceed the actual funds expended by the developer for
the allowed project.
      (2)   Allowable recovery cost. The allowable recovery cost (ARC) shall be
the allowable cost less the original developer’s proportional cost.
Proportional cost shall be based on the original development’s share of the
total cost and the required capacity of the original development.
      (3)   Area of impact. An area of impact shall be determined for each
qualified project based on the properties that benefit or could reasonably
benefit from the improvement.
      (4)   Determinations final and binding. The determination of the AI, the
allowable recovery cost and the development site’s cost obligations as approved
by the City, shall be final and binding upon all parties.
   (D)   Notice of capital improvement.
      (1)   Notice of the estimated allowable recovery costs for the project
shall be mailed to the current property owners within the area of impact by the
developer with proof of mailing provided to the City. The notice shall include
a description of the project, the boundary of the area of impact, the estimated
allowable recovery cost and the method of determining the post-developer’s
increased capacity fees.
      (2)   Notice of the determined allowable recovery costs after completion
of the work shall be mailed to the current property owners within the area of
impact by the developer with proof of mailing provided to the City 30 days
before final acceptance of the capital recovery allowable cost by the City. The
notice shall include the information set out in the previous notice with
updated constructed amounts.
      (3)   Notice of the final determined allowable cost shall be placed on
the title records at the County Courthouse for the properties within the area
of impact putting the owners on notice that the properties are subject to the
increased capacity fee.
   (E)   Increased capacity capital improvement; payback contract with
developer.
      (1)   Upon approval of an increased capacity capital improvement, the
City may enter into a contract with the developer concerning the construction,
operation or maintenance of the capital improvement and a payment of increased
capacity fees in an amount not to exceed the allowable recovery cost to the
developer of the increased capacity capital improvement and any interest set
out in capital recovery section.
      (2)   After the completion and acceptance by the City of the developer’s
capital improvement constructed pursuant to this chapter, and upon connection
of the improvement to the City’s infrastructure, said improvement shall
thereupon be and become a part of the City’s capital improvement system, under
the City’s exclusive ownership, control and operation, including the right to
make all such connections and cross-connections, and use of the improvement as
it may deem necessary for the proper management and utilization of the
improvement as an integrated part of the City’s infrastructure.
      (3)   The sole and only obligation of the City to the developer
hereunder, after the capital improvement has been constructed, accepted and
becomes a part of the City’s infrastructure, shall be to require the
appropriate distribution of the capital recovery sums actually paid by others.
In the event the fees are not collected, the City shall not be liable for
payment.
      (4)   The City shall, during the term of any increased capacity contract,
require any post-improvement developer, within the area of impact, which
desires to connect to or extend any increased capacity improvement or otherwise
use the system, to pay to the City, for the benefit of the developer of the
increased capacity improvement, that portion of the allowable costs, as
calculated herein, for payment to developers which hold increased capacity
capital improvement contracts on that portion of the City’s infrastructure
which serves the property to be connected to or use the improvement.
      (5)   Neither the contract nor any right contained therein may be sold,
assigned, transferred or encumbered by the developer without the advance
written consent of the City.
      (6)   Nothing contained in the language of the contract shall prohibit
the City from making any connections, cross-connections or use of the capital
improvement constructed by the developer at any location, and no payment or fee
shall be required.
   (F)   Increased capacity fee calculation. The post-improvement development
site’s share of an increased capacity capital improvement cost shall be
calculated as follows.
      (1)   Basis for calculation. The allowable recovery cost shall be the
cost of the project minus the developer’s cost of share, where:
         (a)   Developer’s share of the project shall be based on the
developer’s share of the increased capacity compared to the total increased
capacity established in the agreement; and
         (b)   Developer’s cost share shall be the developer’s share of the
project multiplied by the allowable cost of the project.
      (2)   Post-improvement development sites. The post-improvement
development site’s increased capacity fee for a qualifying capital improvement
shall be calculated as follows.
         (a)   Post-improvement development share shall be based upon the post-
improvement development’s share of the increased capacity compared to the total
increased capacity established in the agreement.
         (b)   Post-improvement development cost share shall be the post-
improvement development share multiplied by the allowable cost, inflated by
four percent (4%) for each whole year from the date of acceptance of the
capital improvement as a capital recovery project.
   (G)   Post-improvement development sites.
      (1)   Increased capacity fees. When post-improvement development occurs
within the area of impact and makes use of, or receives a benefit of, a portion
of the increased capacity capital improvement covered under this chapter, the
developer of the post-improvement development shall pay the increased capacity
fees set out in this chapter. Fees shall be due and payable to the City before
issuance of the plat, or in cases where there are no plats issued, before
issuance of any permit for the post-improvement development site or certificate
of occupancy. When a post-improvement development occurs outside of the area of
impact (AI) but makes use of and receives fifty percent (50%) or more of the
development’s benefit from an increased capacity improvement covered under this
chapter, the developer of the post-development shall pay increased capacity
fees as if the post-development was within the area of impact.
      (2)   Site requirements. Post-development sites that fall within an
increased capacity capital improvement district or districts, or where fifty
percent (50%) or more of the site will use an improvement, or improvements,
covered by an increased capacity agreement, shall provide the following:
         (a)   The share of the increased capacity being accessed or used; and
         (b)   Payment of increased capacity fee or fees with plat submission,
or with other permits when a plat is not involved.
   (H)   Capital recovery payments.
      (1)   Increased capacity fees. The City shall account for the increased
capacity fees for each capital recovery improvement separately. Five percent
(5%) of all fees collected shall be retained by the City for administration.
The City shall provide notice to the developers of record of active capital
improvement districts, of the fees collected in amounts of $1,000 or more.
Developers of record may then file a claim for payment of fees, less the City’s
five percent (5%) administrative fee.
      (2)   Unclaimed fees. Fees not claimed by the developer within one year
of the second notice of fees on file shall become the property of the City, but
failure to collect fees in one year does not terminate the developer’s right to
collect in subsequent years.
      (3)   Non-liability or obligation of the City. The City shall not be
liable for payment of any increased capacity fees not collected. The sole
obligation of the City to any developer shall be to require the payment of
increased capacity fees as required by this chapter.
   (I)   Term of capital recovery district. Recovery of capital recovery fees
is available for a term of 20 years from the date of acceptance of the
improvements by the City. Provided, however, recovery will be terminated prior
to the term of 20 years if and when the entire allowable recovery cost has been
collected.
   (J)   City use. The City shall have the right to make such connections, use,
changes, improvements or abandonment of any public improvement, as it may deem
necessary, without payment of fees.
   (K)   Special exception. Prior to payment of capital recovery fees, any
person that can show that they have an interest in property in an area of
impact, AI of a capital improvement project, and that such property is
substantially unique, and that the capital improvement fee is a substantial
hardship due to the unique qualities, may file a request for a special
exception with the City Commission. The City Council, upon hearing a request,
must determine that there is a substantially unique condition that makes the
proposed capital improvement fee a substantial hardship on the property before
taking any action. The actions that may be taken include reduction of the
capital improvement fee, waiving of the fee, deferring the fee or taking no
action.
   (L)   Restrictions and reservations. The following restrictions and
reservations apply to projects proposed under this chapter: Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the City to give or continue to give service to
any person, firm or corporation, or to any particular tract of land, other than
pursuant to its other ordinances and regulations.
§ 10-5-5 CAPITAL RECOVERY SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Approval of increased capacity capital improvements. A developer
desiring to make an increased capacity public improvement shall include the
following information in the application:
      (1)   A detailed drawing of the proposal, indicating the drainage area to
be served, proposed location of the new improvement, location of existing
services in close proximity and the proposed point of connection; and
      (2)   Proposed routing of sewer with coordination of drainage and other
public services.
   (B)   Increased capacity fee calculation for sanitary sewers. The post-
improvement development site’s share of an increased capacity sanitary sewer
improvement cost shall be calculated as follows.
      (1)   Basis for calculation. The allowable recovery cost shall be
proportioned out based on the post-development site’s projected peak hourly
wastewater flow compared to the established design peak hourly wastewater flow,
less the peak hourly wastewater flow established for the original development
site. This calculation shall be made for each improvement district the post-
development site is within.
      (2)   Hourly wastewater flow designations. The post-development projected
peak hourly wastewater flow shall be:
         (a)   Nine hundred fifty GPD for each single residence;
         (b)   Four hundred GPD for each motel unit, hotel or other transient
living unit;
         (c)   Six hundred fifty GPD for each trailer space, mobile home or
apartment living unit;
         (d)   One hundred GPD for each student of any nonboarding type school;
         (e)   Twenty eight GPD for each person that may be accommodated in a
main assembly hall, with restroom facilities only; and
         (f)   Six hundred sixty GPD for each bed of a hospital.
      (3)   Other developments. The post-development projected peak hourly
wastewater flow for any development not covered above shall be equal to four
times the development site’s projected average water use contributing to the
sanitary sewer system, but in no case shall the flow be less than 400 GPD.
   (C)   Post-improvement development sites for sanitary sewers. Post-
improvement development sites that fall within an increased capacity
improvement district or districts or will use an improvement covered by an
increased capacity agreement shall provide the following information to
determine the post-improvement fee: Number and type of living units, lots,
sleeping units or participants projected for the site. The projected peak day
wastewater flow for the site when required, and the method that the flow was
calculated on.
   (D)   Exemption. Section 8-3A-5 (which requires connection to the City’s
sewer system) will not apply to properties within a sanitary sewer capital
recovery project until the recovery of capital recovery fees is terminated.
§ 10-5-6 SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR STORMWATER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Approval of increased capacity capital improvements. A developer
desiring to make an increased capacity public improvement for stormwater shall
include the following additional information in their application: A detailed
drawing of the proposal indicating the drainage area to be served (AI) and the
proposed location of improvement; a drainage report identifying the existing
capacity of the facility; and the proposed improved capacity of the facility.
   (B)   Stormwater development fee. To defray the costs of stormwater
improvements, a stormwater development fee shall be assessed pursuant to the
fee schedule set forth in §
2-6E-10.
§ 10-5-7 SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR WATER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Area of impact. Where the water line improvement follows road rights-
of-way, the area of impact shall generally include the area to a line one-half
of the distance to the next existing or planned water line, of equal size or
larger, on both sides of the improvement, but not more than one-half mile from
the improvement.
   (B)   Increased capacity fee calculation for water improvements. The post-
improvement development site’s share of an increased capacity water improvement
cost shall be calculated using two methods:
      (1)   Half is based upon the area of development, which shall be
determined to be the area of the lot or tract of land associated with any
building and associated with all impervious surface on the site; and
      (2)   Half is based upon the water capacity of the development by using
the following table.
         (a)   Meter size shall be the larger of the tap size placed on a water
main or the meter size.
         (b)   Water capacity is used to determine the proportional share of
the ARC for this subsection (B)(2).
 
Meter Size Water Capacity Factor (Acres)
5/8”     0.39
1”       1
2”       4
4”       16
6”       36
8”       64
 
   (C)   Basis for calculation. The ARC shall be proportioned out based on the
post-development site’s area and water tap size. Post-developments shall pay
their proportional share of one-half of the allowable recovery cost based upon
the post-development site’s developed area compared to the basin area, and the
other half of their payment is their proportional share of one-half of the ARC
based on their tap size, in the area, compared to the projected total metered
area established in the basin. In the case where a post-development site
outside the basin boundary ties to or makes use of a capital recovery
improvement, the required increased capacity fee shall be capped at not more
than one-half of the ARC, after the inflation multiplier is applied.
   (D)   Post-improvement development requirement. At the time of site plan,
platting, permitting or application to connect and in advance of connecting to
the water system, developments within a current area of impact shall provide
its area of development and the water tap size, or sizes.
§ 10-5-8 SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Approval of increased capacity capital improvements. A developer
desiring to make an increased capacity public transportation improvement shall
include the following additional information:
      (1)   A traffic study by a professional licensed engineer establishing
ADT, peak hour traffic for both a.m. and p.m., and an equivalent single axle
load (ESAL) for the highest use lane and level of service for existing
conditions, the increased condition with full development of the proposed site
and for the increased condition considering growth for a period of 20 years
from completion of the improvement; and
      (2)   When a traffic control signal is included in the improvement, the
traffic study should include the above information for the signaled
intersection and each lane of the intersection. Growth should include the
projected growth of the development with one-half mile of the intersection in
all directions or half way to the next traffic light.
   (B)   Increased capacity fee calculation for transportation improvement. The
post-improvement development site’s share of an increased capacity
transportation improvement cost shall be calculated as follows.
      (1)   Roads. Post-improvement developments within the area of impact for
a road or multiple roads shall provide as part of the site plan or plat a
traffic study the ESAL generated by the development for the life of the
improvement and the distribution of such loads to the road system. The post-
improvement development’s increased capacity fee shall be calculated by
multiplying its ESAL share of the total ESAL for the road by the ARC, after the
inflation multiplier is applied.
      (2)   Traffic control signal. Post-improvement developments within the AI
for a traffic signal shall provide a traffic study showing the distribution of
development generated traffic through the intersection for the life of the
improvement. The post-improvement development increased capacity fee shall be
calculated by multiplying the post-improvement developer’s share of traffic
impact on the signal system of the total traffic impact on the signal system by
the ARC, after the inflation multiplier is applied.
      (3)   Traffic study not required, fee calculation. For post-improvement
developments that are not required to provide a traffic study, the increased
capacity fee shall be calculated based on the area of the development compared
to the AI.
§ 10-5-9 CITY AS DEVELOPER.
   The City, or any of its trusts, may act as the developer for the purpose of
capital recovery. When the City acts as the developer, the following provisions
apply.
   (A)   Predevelopment site. No development site is required.
   (B)   Allowable recovery cost. The allowable cost may be used as the ARC.
   (C)   Notice of area of impact. The City may file a notice by resolution in
place of a “payback contract” to establish the area of impact, estimated ARC
and any other items necessary and usually covered by the contract.
CHAPTER 6: GROUP HOMES FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED
Section
   
10-6-1   Purpose and intent
   
10-6-2   Definitions
   
10-6-3   General locational requirements
   
10-6-4   Design requirements
   
10-6-5   Exclusion by private agreement void
§ 10-6-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The “group home” concept offers the opportunity for the
developmentally disabled to live a normal life by residing in environments
providing maximum potential for social contact and interaction and by providing
appropriate treatment, services and habilitation in a setting that is least
restrictive of personal liberty. These residential facilities have similar off
site impacts and service demands as do conventional residences for nondisabled
persons and shall be permitted in any residential zoning district subject to
density limitations of other residential uses permitted in each district.
   (B)   The purposes of this chapter are:
      (1)   To promote the rights of the developmentally disabled to enjoy
adequate habilitative services in the least restrictive community based
setting;
      (2)   To provide the disabled with the patterns and conditions of
everyday living which are as close as possible to the regular circumstances and
way of life of society; and
      (3)   To provide a clear and uniform zoning and land use policy for the
establishment of residential facilities for the developmentally disabled.
§ 10-6-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. A severe, chronic disability that:
      (1)   Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination
of mental and physical impairments;
      (2)    Is manifested before the person attains age 22;
      (3)   Is likely to continue indefinitely;
      (4)   Results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of
the following areas of major life activity:
         (a)   Self-care;
         (b)   Learning;
         (c)   Mobility;
         (d)   Self-direction;
         (e)   Capacity for independent living; and
         (f)   Economic self-sufficiency.
      (5)   Reflects the person’s need for a combination and sequence of
special, interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment or other services that
are lifelong or of extended duration and are individually planned and
coordinated.
   GROUP HOME. A facility, licensed by the state, providing housing and
habilitative services to persons with developmental disabilities. For purposes
of zoning, a GROUP HOME providing housing and habilitative services to five or
fewer persons not including staff, shall be considered a single family.
   HABILITATION. Procedures and interventions designed to assist a
developmentally disabled individual achieve greater physical, mental and social
development by enhancing the well-being of the person and teaching skills which
increase the possibility that a resident of a group home will make
progressively independent and responsible decisions about social behavior,
quality of life, job satisfaction and personal relationships.
§ 10-6-3 GENERAL LOCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Group homes may be established or developed in accordance with the following
standards.
   (A)   Residential zoning districts. Group homes shall be permitted by right
in all residential zoning districts and any zoning district which permits other
residential uses of equivalent density.
   (B)   Home of greater density; review. A group home of greater density than
the residential district permits by rights may be permitted by review in
accordance with §
11-14-1 .
§ 10-6-4 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conformance with existing residences. Group homes shall conform, to
the extent possible, to the type and outward appearance of the residences in
the area in which they are located. When utilization of any existing residence
is planned, exterior alterations should be limited to rehabilitation work and
if additions are necessary, they should match, as closely as possible, the
materials and style of the existing structure. This provision shall in no way
restrict the installation of any ramp or other special structural features
required to serve physically handicapped residents.
   (B)   Compliance with zoning regulations. The initial establishment or
development of a group home that will house more than ten residents, excluding
staff, shall be subject to site plan review.
   (C)   Parking regulations. Off street parking shall be provided in an amount
equal to one parking space for each staff member calculated on the basis of the
maximum number of staff on duty at any one time and one parking space for each
four residents. If, due to occupant automobile ownership, facility visitation
policy or other factors, it is believed fewer parking spaces are necessary,
applicants may petition the Zoning Board of Adjustment for a special exception
in accordance with §
11-3-6.
§ 10-6-5 EXCLUSION BY PRIVATE AGREEMENT VOID.
   Any restriction, reservation or covenant in any subdivision, deed or
instrument of or pertaining to the transfer, sale, lease or use of property
that permits residential use of property, but prohibits the use of such
property as a group home for developmentally disabled persons, shall, to the
extent of such prohibition, be void as against the purpose and intent of this
chapter and shall, to the extent of such prohibition, be given no legal or
equitable force or effect.
CHAPTER 7: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
10-7-1   Sidewalks required
   
10-7-2   Sidewalk specifications
§ 10-7-1 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADDITION. Construction of a structure that is attached to or connected
with an existing building.
      COMMUNITY CENTERS AND NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS. As defined in the Envision
Enid Comprehensive Plan, § 6-1. The size of a COMMUNITY OR NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER
is determined by the width of the commercial, industrial or special use zoning
from the intersection.
      DITCH. An earthen channel typically used for drainage along the side of a
road or street.
      INFILL DEVELOPMENT. The development of a previously undeveloped lot or
tract of land in an existing neighborhood.
      NATURAL DISASTER. An event or force of nature, including fire,
earthquake, flood and tornado.
      NEW DEVELOPMENT. Improving an undeveloped lot or tract of land by
subdividing, site planning, construction or building permitting. Development on
a previously developed lot or tract of land which where the previous
development is removed for the purposes of developing the site shall also be
considered NEW DEVELOPMENT.
      REDEVELOPMENT. The development of a previously developed lot or tract of
land after a total loss.
      TOTAL LOSS. The destruction of a structure as a result of a natural
disaster such that nothing of value remains and the structure cannot be
repaired or restored to its original condition.
   (B)   Residential sidewalks that parallel abutting streets. The following
shall include sidewalks that parallel all abutting streets:
      (1)   New development;
      (2)   Redevelopment or infill development on property used or zoned as
residential (Four-Family R-4A, Townhouse R-5, Multi-Family R-7); and
      (3)   Redevelopment or infill development on property used or zoned as
residential (Estate R-1, Single-Family R-2, Mobile Home Neighborhood R-3,
Duplex R-4), but only if an adjacent property or if a property within the same
residential subdivision has a sidewalk.
   (C)   Commercial, industrial or special use properties. For new
developments, additions, redevelopments and infill developments, sidewalks that
parallel abutting streets, shall be the length of the lot or development,
whichever is less, and will be included in the following locations:
      (1)   Within ETS Enid Town Square Overlay District Boundaries, as set out
in § 11-10C-3;
      (2)   Within a community center at:
         (a)   Willow Road and Cleveland Street;
         (b)   Willow Road and Van Buren Street;
         (c)   Owen K. Garriott and Garland Road;
         (d)   Owen K. Garriott and Cleveland Street; and
         (e)   Rupe Avenue and Van Buren Street.
      (3)   Within a neighborhood center at:
         (a)   Willow Road and Oakwood Road;
         (b)   Willow Road and Grand Avenue;
         (c)   Chestnut Avenue and Garland Road;
         (d)   Chestnut Avenue and Oakwood Road;
         (e)   Chestnut Avenue and Cleveland Street;
         (f)   Chestnut Avenue and 10th Street;
         (g)   Chestnut Avenue and 16th Street;
         (h)   Randolph Avenue and Garland Road;
         (i)   Randolph Avenue and Oakwood Road;
         (j)   Randolph Avenue and 30th Street;
         (k)   Broadway Avenue and 10th Street;
         (l)   Broadway Avenue and 16th Street;
         (m)   Broadway Avenue and University Avenue;
         (n)   Owen K. Garriott and Van Buren Street; and
         (o)   Owen K. Garriott and 10th Street.
      (4)   Along these streets:
         (a)   Owen K. Garriott from Wheatridge Road to 16th Street;
         (b)   Oakwood Road from 0.25 mile north of Owen K. Garriott to 0.30
mile south of Owen K. Garriott;
         (c)   Van Buren Street from Willow Road to Rupe Avenue;
         (d)   Willow Road from Cleveland Street to Grand Avenue;
         (e)   Grand Avenue from Willow Road to Elm Avenue;
         (f)   30th Street from Randolph to Oklahoma Avenue;
         (g)   Randolph Avenue from Van Buren Street to 10th Street;
         (h)   Broadway Avenue from Van Buren Street to 10th Street; and
         (i)   Maine Street from Van Buren Street to 10th Street.
   (D)   Exceptions. Exceptions are as follows:
      (1)   In a ditch if there is less than five feet between the back of the
curb or driving surface and the top of the slope of the ditch, or if there is
less than five feet between the top of the slope of the ditch and the limits of
the right-of-way, or a ditch with a slope greater than 1:3;
      (2)   Placement or construction of an accessory building;
      (3)   Addition, new development, redevelopment or infill development on
agriculturally zoned land;
      (4)   Remodels, maintenance of buildings or after a total loss; and
      (5)   Additions that do not exceed 2,500 square feet.
§ 10-7-2 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall comply with the most current accessibility guidelines
associated with the Americans with Disabilities Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et
seq.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be constructed using the minimum specifications
provided in §
12-8-7.
   (C)   Should a conflict arise between guidelines associated with the
Americans with Disabilities Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the
specifications provided in §
12-8-7, the more restrictive shall apply.
TITLE 11: ZONING
   Chapter
      
1.    PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS
      
2.    ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
3.    BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
      
4.    ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
      
5.    A AGRICULTURAL (GENERAL) DISTRICT
      
6.    RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
      
7.    COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
      
8.    INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
      
9.    SU SPECIAL USE DISTRICT
      
10.    SUPPLEMENTAL ZONES
      
11.    SITE PLAN REVIEW
      
12.    PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
      
13.    SIGN REGULATIONS
      
14.    SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
      
15.    TRANSFER OF DENSITY/INTENSITY OR DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS
      
16.    RESIDENTIAL CARPORTS AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
      
17.    FENCES
CHAPTER 1: PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS
Section
   
11-1-1   Citation
   
11-1-2   Purpose
   
11-1-3   Nature of regulations
   
11-1-4   Interpretation
   
11-1-5   Application within corporate limits
   
11-1-6   Compliance with district regulations
   
11-1-7   Definitions
§ 11-1-1 CITATION.
   This title, in pursuance of the authority granted by the legislature of the
state in 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq., and the Charter of the City, shall be known
as the “zoning ordinance”, and may be cited as such.
(2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 11-1-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-1-2 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purposes. The regulations contained in this title are deemed necessary
to:
      (1)   Encourage the most appropriate uses of land;
      (2)   Maintain and stabilize the value of property;
      (3)   Reduce fire hazards and improve public safety and accompanying
hazards;
      (4)   Prevent undue concentration of population; and
      (5)   Create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses upon which
to plan for transportation, water supply, sewage, parks, public utilities and
other facilities.
   (B)   Interpretation and application. In interpreting and applying the
provisions of this title, they shall be held to be necessary for the promotion
of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-1-3 NATURE OF REGULATIONS.
   In order to promote the general welfare of the citizens of the City, it
becomes necessary to divide the City into zones or districts to regulate within
each zone the use of land; use, size and location of buildings; the size and
area of yards and open spaces; and the density of population.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-1-4 INTERPRETATION.
   When any provisions in this title impose more stringent requirements,
regulations, restrictions or limitations than are imposed or required by the
provisions of any other law or ordinance, then the provisions of this title
shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-1-5 APPLICATION WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The regulations prescribed in this title shall apply within the corporate
limits of the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-1-6 COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, no land shall be used and no
building, structure or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved,
altered, enlarged or rebuilt which is designed, arranged or intended to be used
or maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in accordance with the
requirements established in the district in which such land, building,
structure or improvement is located, and in accordance with the provisions
herein contained relating to any or all districts.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-1-7 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words used in
the present tense shall include the future tense; words in the singular number
shall include the plural number, except where the natural construction of the
writing indicates otherwise. The word SHALL is mandatory and not directory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A building, structure or use, which is
subordinate to the main building, which serves a purpose clearly incidental and
related to the main building, and is located on the same lot as the main
building. An ACCESSORY BUILDING may include, but is not limited to, a private
garage, storage building, carport, playhouse or greenhouse. An ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE OR USE may include, but is not limited to, a satellite dish or
antenna, swimming pool or tennis court.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USE. Amusement or entertainment use which is
distinguished by an emphasis on acts or material depicting, describing or
relating to “sexual conduct” or “specified anatomical areas”, including, but
not limited to, topless or bottomless dancers, seminude dancers, exotic
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainment.
   AIR RIGHTS. The rights to a space above a property.
   AIRSPACE. The space above the land, which might be subject to division and
sale either with, or separate from, the surface.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   APARTMENT HOUSE or MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A single detached dwelling
designed for, and occupied by, three or more families living independently of
each other as separate housekeeping units, including apartment houses,
apartment hotels and flats, but not including auto or trailer courts or camps,
hotels or resort type hotels.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story when more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for a definite period, meals or lodging are provided for three
or more, but not exceeding 12, persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of
persons, animals or chattel. When separated by dividing firewalls without
openings, each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a
separate structure.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof, or
to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In a residential district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be a MAIN BUILDING on the lot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING SITE. A single parcel of land under one ownership, occupied or
intended to be occupied, by a building or structure.
   CARPORT. A permanently roofed structure, open on at least two sides,
designed for, or occupied by, a private passenger vehicle.
   CHILDCARE CENTER. Any place, home or institution which receives eight or
more children under the age of 16 years, and not of common parentage, for care
apart from their natural parents, legal guardians or custodians, when received
for regular periods of time for compensation; provided, however; this
definition shall not include public and private schools organized, operated or
approved under the laws of this state for custody of children fixed by a court
of competent jurisdiction, children related by blood or marriage within the
third degree to the custodial person, or to churches or other religious or
public institutions caring for children within the institutional building while
their parents or legal guardians are attending services or meetings or classes
or engaged in church activities.
   CHILDCARE ESTABLISHMENT. A home occupation, licensed by the Oklahoma
Department of Human Services, that provides for the care of no more than seven
children under the age of 16 years, apart from their natural parents, legal
guardian or custodians, when received for regular periods of time and for
compensation. A CHILDCARE ESTABLISHMENT may employ one additional person other
than the inhabitants of the home.
   CHILDCARE, LARGE FAMILY. A residential family home, licensed by the Oklahoma
Department of Human Services, which provides care and supervision for eight to
12 children for part of the 24-hour day.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which filters traffic from local streets before
their capacity is exceeded.
   COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROW FACILITY. A Factory Group building or
occupancy, as defined by the International Building Code § 306 and licensed by
the Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Authority to grow marijuana, but excluding the
retail sale of said plants on the premises.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple unit structure in which the tenant holds full title
to his unit and joint ownership in a share of the land and/or other common
property of the structure.
   CONTAINERS. Containerization (or containerisation) is a system of intermodal
freight transport using standard ISO (International Organization for
Standardization) containers known as shipping containers, ITUs (intermodal
transport units or isotainers) or any other freight container that can be
loaded and sealed intact onto container ships, railroad cars, planes and
trucks.
   DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. A severe chronic disability that: is attributable
to a mental or physical impairment or combination of mental and physical
impairments; is manifested before the person attains age 22; is likely to
continue indefinitely; results in substantial functional limitations in three
or more of the following areas of major life activity: self-care, learning,
mobility, self-direction, capacity for independent living, economic self-
sufficiency; and reflects the person’s need for combination and sequence of
special, interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment or other services that
are lifelong or of extended duration and are individually planned and
coordinated.
   DISTRICT. Any section or sections of the City, for which regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises or the height and area of buildings
are uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including house trailers.
   DWELLING, COOPERATIVE. A multi-family development operated by and for its
occupants. Individual occupants do not hold full title to their specific
housing units, but own shares in the enterprise.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for occupancy by three or
more families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer
courts or camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed to be occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed to be occupied by two families
living independently of each other.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specified purposes.
   FAMILY. One person or more persons related by blood or marriage, including
adopted children, or a group of not to exceed five persons (excluding servants)
not all related by blood or marriage, occupying premises and living as a single
non-profit housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
or lodging house, hotel, club or similar dwelling for group use. A FAMILY shall
be deemed to include domestic servants employed by said family.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The gross area of building(s) divided by the gross area of
a lot or parcel.
   FRONT ELEVATION. The side of a main building on a lot or parcel of land that
contains its principal entrance.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private
garage.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or a part of a main building used for
storage purposes only for not more than three automobiles, or for a number of
automobiles which does not exceed two times the number of families occupying
the dwelling unit to which the GARAGE is accessory, whichever number is
greater.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, used for the care, servicing, repair or equipping of automobiles or
where such vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GASOLINE, SERVICE OR FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures
thereon, that is used for the retail sales of gasoline or oil fuels, butane or
propane fuels, or other automobile accessories, and which may or may not
include facilities for lubrication, washing, cleaning or otherwise servicing
automobiles, but not including the painting thereof.
   GOLF COURSE. Not to include a miniature golf course or commercial driving
range.
   GROSS AREA. All lot or parcel area including one-half of the right-of-way of
any abutting street.
   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units divided by the gross area.
   GROUP HOME. A facility, licensed by the state, providing housing and
habilitative services to persons with developmental disabilities. For purposes
of zoning, a GROUP HOME providing housing and habilitative services to five or
fewer persons not including staff shall be considered a single family.
   HABILITATION. Procedures and interventions designed to assist a
developmentally disabled individual achieve greater physical, mental and social
development by enhancing the well-being of the person and teaching skills which
increase the possibility that a resident of a group home will make
progressively independent and responsible decisions about social behavior,
quality of life, job satisfaction and personal relationships.
   HELP YOURSELF LAUNDRY. A laundry providing home type washing, drying and
ironing machines for hire to be used primarily by the customers on the
premises. This includes coin operated machines for dry cleaning purposes also.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by the inhabitants,
which shall exclude any additional employees, which shall be clearly incidental
and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, which shall not
change the character thereof, which shall be conducted entirely within the main
or accessory buildings; provided that no trading in merchandise shall be
carried on and in connection with which there shall be no display of
merchandise or sign other than one nonilluminated nameplate not more than four
square feet in area attached to the main or accessory building and in which no
mechanical equipment shall be used or activity shall be conducted which creates
any noise, dust, odor or electrical disturbance beyond the confines of the lot
on which said occupation is conducted. The conducting of any occupation or
profession, which exceeds the standards above, shall not be defined as a HOME
OCCUPATION.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
or more sleeping rooms, intended or designed to be occupied as the more or less
temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without meals for
compensation, but not including an auto or trailer court or camp, sanatorium,
hospital, asylum, orphanage or building where persons are housed under
restraint.
   IMAGINARY SURFACES. A three-dimensional geographic area comprising approach
and departure airspace corridors and surrounding navigable airspace that the
United States Department of Defense and Federal Aviation Administration have
designed to graphically show the airspace that requires protection from
vertical obstructions. From the IMAGINARY SURFACES comes a set of height
restrictions that are based upon the runways and the types of aircraft that
utilize said runways. The height restrictions are measured utilizing as a
baseline the established airport elevation (EAE). The EAE for Vance Air Force
Base is 1,307 feet above sea level. The EAE for Woodring Regional Airport is
1,167 feet above sea level.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT; TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person, whether as owner, agent,
consignee or employee, whether a resident of the City or not, who engages in a
temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise
within the City, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent or public or private
parking lot or other place within the City, for the exhibition and sale of such
goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public auction; provided
that such definition shall not be construed to include any person, firm or
corporation who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from
stock, but exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future
delivery only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with
the provisions of this title merely by reason of associating temporarily with
any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. ITINERANT MERCHANT shall also
include transient merchants and itinerant vendors.
   JUNK. Used, broken, discarded or abandoned materials. This shall include
wood, paper, glass, rags, rubber, metal, concrete or other personal property,
whether of value or valueless. It shall also include automobiles or machines of
any type and/or parts thereof, which are no longer in operable condition.
   JUNKYARD OPERATION. The sale, storage, display, dismantling and demolition
of “junk” as defined in this section.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which more than five dogs, cats or potbellied
pigs in any combination thereof, more than six months of age, are kept.
   LOCAL STREET. A street which serves primarily to provide direct access to
abutting property, has the lowest level of mobility and service to through
traffic movement is deliberately discouraged.
   LOT. Any plot of land occupied, or intended to be occupied, by one building,
or group of buildings, and its accessory buildings and uses, including such
open space as required by this title and other laws or regulations, and having
its principal frontage on a street.
   LOT AREA. Total horizontal area included within lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut for their full
lengths on a street; provided that the interior angle at the intersection of
such sides is less than 135 degrees. For the purposes of this definition, the
front and rear elevations of a residence erected in a CORNER LOT in the two-
family or four-family districts may face the side lot lines in accordance with
regulations of this title.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two nonintersecting sides abutting on two or more streets.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a “lot” as defined herein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure that is transportable in one or
more sections which, in a traveling mode, measures eight feet or more in width
and/or 40 feet in length and/or, when erected on a site, is 320 or more square
feet in floor area; is manufactured on a permanent chassis; includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to required utilities, that was constructed to meet the edition
of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of
1974 (the Act), as amended, in force at the time of its construction, commonly
referred as the HUD Code, or the (IRC) International Residential Code adopted
by the City at time of its construction.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES.
      (1)   CONVALESCENT, REST OR NURSING HOME. A health facility where persons
are housed and furnished with meals and continuing care for compensation.
      (2)   DENTAL CLINIC or MEDICAL CLINIC. A facility for the examination and
treatment of ill and afflicted human outpatients; provided, however, that
patients are not kept overnight, except under emergency conditions.
      (3)   DENTAL OFFICE or DOCTOR’S OFFICE. Same as “dental clinic or medical
clinic”.
      (4)   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services primarily for
human inpatients, medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and
including related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient departments,
training facilities, central service facilities and staff office which are an
integral part of the facilities.
      (5)   PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER. A facility primarily utilized by a health
unit for the provision of public health services including related facilities
such as laboratories, clinics and administrative offices operated in connection
therewith.
      (6)   SANATORIUM. An institution providing health facilities for
inpatient medical treatment or treatment and recuperation using natural
therapeutic agents.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR. A business that produces, manufactures,
extracts, processes, packages or creates concentrate, medical marijuana infused
products or medical marijuana products.
   MINOR ARTERIAL. A street which carries traffic from collector streets to
principal arterial streets, and provides service to trips of moderate length.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-built structure that is transportable in one or more
sections which, in a traveling mode, measures eight feet or more in width and/
or 40 feet in length and/or, when erected on a site, is 320 or more square feet
in floor area; is manufactured on a permanent chassis; includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein and designed
to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected
to required utilities, but does not meet the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (the Act), as amended, commonly
referred as the HUD Code.
   MODULAR HOME (IRC CODE). A factory-built structure utilized for residential
purposes, transportable in one or more sections, which is lacking a chassis and
is intended to be located only upon a permanent foundation, that was
constructed to meet the edition of (IRC) International Residential Code adopted
by the City at time of its construction.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does
not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   PARKING SPACE. A space located on private property which is a permanently
surfaced area enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one
automobile together with a permanently surfaced driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress of an
automobile.
   PERSONAL SELF-SERVICE RENTAL STORAGE OR MINISTORAGE. A building or series of
buildings, containing not less than ten enclosed storage spaces for rent to the
public and designed to provide private storage for personal use. Such storage
spaces shall not exceed 800 square feet. MINISTORAGE STRUCTURES shall not be
located on any commercially zoned tract, parcel or lot of land comprising less
than one acre. PERSONAL SELF-SERVICE RENTAL STORAGE OR MINISTORAGE shall not be
construed to include commercial and/or industrial warehouses.
   PLANT NURSERY. A lot, building, structure or combination thereof, on which
trees, plants or shrubs are raised for delivery and sale to commercial
greenhouses, but excluding the retailing of said plants on the premises. A
structure used for a PLANT NURSERY cannot exceed the requirements specified in
the Building Code for an accessory building or private garage. It does not
include the growing of marijuana by a commercial medical marijuana grower due
to the state regulations that require security measures to prevent unauthorized
entrance and restrictions on minors entering the property.
   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A street especially designed for through traffic or the
capability of moving a high volume of traffic.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING or PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A building or structure or, where
the context so indicates, a group of buildings or structures, in which the
principal use of a lot or parcel is conducted. This shall include any buildings
which are attached to the PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE by a covered structure.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or structures, as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use.
   PRIVATE CLUBHOUSE. A building or grounds, the principal use of which is
recreational, including culinary and bathing uses, but excluding temporary or
permanent residence for sleeping facilities, and the sale of intoxicating
beverages.
   RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure that is
transportable in one or more sections which, in a traveling mode, measures
eight feet or more in width and/or 40 feet in length and/or, when erected on a
site, is 320 or more square feet in floor area; is manufactured on a permanent
chassis; includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, that was
constructed to meet the edition of the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (the Act), as amended, in force
at the time of its construction. commonly referred as the HUD CODE. or the
(IRC) International Residential Code adopted by the City at the time of its
construction that further incorporates the following designated building design
elements:
      (1)   Restricted to new manufactured homes constructed within the last
two years;
      (2)   Minimum width: 24 feet;
      (3)   The unit must have a minimum gross floor area of 960 square feet;
      (4)   Lot orientation with the primary entrance facing the street;
      (5)   Must be attached to a continuous concrete or concrete block
foundation with crawl space, adequate access and ventilation in accordance with
the current adopted code for single-family dwellings;
      (6)   Exterior veneer material must be compatible with at least fifty
percent (50%) of the existing homes on the blockface, unless the number of
vacant lots exceeds the number of existing homes;
      (7)   The roof of each home must be a gable or hip type, meet a minimum
of a 3:12 slope, with at least Class C shingle roofing material consisting of
composition asphalt shingle, fiberglass shingle, baked tile or crushed rock;
      (8)   The unit incorporates a porch or covered shelter projecting in
front of the entrance of a building;
      (9)   Have tongue and running gear including axles removed;
      (10)   The property owner shall declare the manufactured home as real
property so it will not remain as chattel property;
      (11)   Be placed on a parcel according to a pre-submitted and approved
plot plan as described on the permit. In addition, a manufacturer’s
installation manual and an illustration of the finished appearance of the unit
be provided; and
      (12)   Must have permanent steps at all exits of either concrete or
stone, wood steps are not allowed. ADA compliant ramps made be made of any
appropriate material.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 12, persons; all in excess of this number
shall be defined as a “motel” under the terms of this title.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT.
      (1)   The fondling or other touching of human genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (2)   Ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including intercourse or physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed
genitals, pubic area, buttocks or if such person is a female, breast;
      (3)   Masturbation; and
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities set forth in subsections (1) through (3) of this definition.
   SINGLE-WIDE RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure that
meets the definition of “Residential Manufactured Home” herein, with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   May be less that the minimum 24 feet in width; and
      (2)   Lot orientation with or without the primary entrance facing the
street.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME. A residential manufactured home
designed to be occupied by one family.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets the following
qualifications:
      (1)   A height of no greater than 50 feet above ground level;
      (2)   Each antenna of the wireless provider could fit within an enclosure
of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and
      (3)   All other wireless equipment associated with the wireless facility,
whether ground- or pole-mounted, is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in
volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included
in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, grounding equipment, power transfer switch,
cut-off switch and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks and female breasts below a
point immediately above the top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   STORM CELLAR. An enclosed structure located at or below grade designed for
protection from dangerous windstorms.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   STREET. Any public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access
to abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the
ground. This includes, but is not limited to, carports, advertising signs,
billboards and poster panels.
   TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL WORK FORCE HOUSING. Temporary manufactured housing
units with dormitories, laundry facilities, recreation halls, commercial
kitchens and dining facilities to support a temporary labor force.
   TOURIST COURT. An area containing one or more structures designed or
intended to be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient
families and intended primarily for automobile transients.
   TOWNHOUSE. Single-family dwelling units on platted lots detached,
semidetached or attached structures connected by a common wall but held
individually by separate ownership.
   TRAILER, CAMPING. A portable or mobile living unit used for temporary human
occupancy away from the place of residence of the occupants, and not
constituting the principal place of residence of the occupants.
   TRAILER, MOBILE HOME, TRAILER HOME or HOUSE TRAILER. A portable or mobile
living unit used or designed for human occupancy on a permanent or year-round
basis.
   TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME. A residential manufactured home
designed to be a duplex, which is designed to be occupied by two families
living independently from each other.
   VERTICAL OBSTRUCTION. Objects or structures, natural or manmade, that exceed
a specified height above the ground and extend into protected airspace of an
airfield.
   WAREHOUSE, COMMERCIAL. A building used for the storage of commercial
products prior to distribution to retail outlets and located on a parcel of
land of not less than one-half acre.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except for an authorized accessory building or where otherwise
specifically provided in this title. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of
determining the width of the side yard, the depth of a front yard and of the
depth of a rear yard, the least horizontal distance between the lot line and
the main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard located in front of the front elevation of a building
and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front property line and the outside wall of the
main building. The FRONT YARD SETBACK LINE represents the line in front of
which no building or structure may be erected, other than steps, fireplaces,
storm cellars, unenclosed porches, marquees, balconies and signs as provided
for in this title. In the four-family and multi-family zoning districts, a
FRONT YARD on an interior lot may be the yard extending from the front
elevation of a building to a side lot line; provided that the yard setback
which has its full frontage on a public street is not less than 20 feet.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between lot
lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the main building. On both corner lots and interior lots, the REAR
YARD shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side lines of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the outside wall of the side of
the main building. Steps, fireplaces, air conditioning units, signs, storm
cellars, unenclosed porches and unenclosed balconies may extend into a SIDE
YARD.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-7) (Ord. 2013-4, passed 2-5-2013; Ord. 2019-12, passed 3-6-
2019; Ord. 2019-13, passed 5-6-2019; Ord. 2020-10, passed 7-7-2020; Ord. 2023-
09, passed 7-6-2023; Ord. 2023-10, passed 7-6-2023; Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-6-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 63 O.S. § 427.2(36)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
11-2-1   Changes and amendments
   
11-2-2   Notice of changes in zoning district boundaries
   
11-2-3   Rezoning fee
   
11-2-4   Penalty
§ 11-2-1 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, on its own action or on petition,
after public notice and hearing as provided by law, amend, supplement or change
the boundaries or regulations herein or subsequently established. The
boundaries of the zoning districts as shown on the zoning map may be changed by
ordinance, at any time, specifically designating the changes desired or
changing the classification of any certain property or territory.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 2020-04, passed 3-
17-2020; Ord. 2020-11, passed 7-7-2020; Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-7-2020; Ord.
2020-15, passed 8-4-2020; Ord. 2021-09, passed 7-8-2021; Ord. 2021-10, passed
8-3-2021; Ord. 2021-13, passed 10-5-2021; Ord. 2021-17, passed 11-2-2021; Ord.
2021-22, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-02, passed 2-1-2022; Ord. 2022-05, passed
4-5-2022; Ord. 2022-06, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-5-2022; Ord.
2022-14, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 2022-21, passed 9-8-2022)
§ 11-2-2 NOTICE OF CHANGES IN ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Notice of hearing required; publication. Whenever the Metropolitan
Area Planning Commission of Enid and Garfield County, or any other Planning
Commission acting as the Planning Commission for the City, files with the City
Clerk a recommended change in the boundaries of any zoning district, the City
Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to, without further action by the City
Council, cause to be published a notice of hearing before the City Council, on
said proposed change, and which notice shall be published in the official paper
of the City not less than 15 days prior to said hearing.
   (B)   Time of hearing; contents of notice. The City Clerk shall fix the time
of said hearing and publish notice of the hearing in the newspaper. The notice
shall contain a description of the property to be considered for rezoning and
the present district in which the property is located and the district to which
the proposed change is to be made.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 11-2-3 REZONING FEE.
   (A)   A fee of $150 shall be charged for filing an application for rezoning
to defray publication and administration costs. In addition, the applicant
shall provide a list containing the names and mailing addresses of all owners
of property lying within 300 feet of the exterior boundary of the subject
property, as certified by a licensed and bonded abstracting company, a licensed
or bonded title insurance company or a licensed state attorney who practices
title work. Notice of a public hearing on any zoning change shall be given by
the Planning Commission 20 days prior to the hearing by mailing written notice
to all the owners of real property within 300 feet of the exterior boundary of
the property to be rezoned.
   (B)   If the zoning change requested permits the use of treatment
facilities, multiple-family facilities, transitional living facilities, halfway
houses and any housing or facility that may be used for medical detoxification,
the entity proposing the zoning change shall mail a written notice within 30
days of the hearing to all real property owners within one-fourth of a mile
where the area to be affected is located and shall be responsible for all costs
incurred in mailing this notice.
   (C)   Should the applicant withdraw his application in writing, prior to
notice of hearing being published in the newspaper and/or prior to the notices
being mailed, the $150 shall be refunded upon a claim being filed therefor.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3) (Ord. 2016-10, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 11-2-4 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this title shall
be guilty of a Class C offense.
(2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 11-2-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
CHAPTER 3: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Section
   
11-3-1   Board created
   
11-3-2   Membership; appointment
   
11-3-3   Meetings and rules
   
11-3-4   Powers and duties
   
11-3-5   Appeal of decisions by administrative officials
   
11-3-6   Special exceptions
   
11-3-7   Variances
   
11-3-8   Notice and hearings
   
11-3-9   Procedure for appeals to Board
   
11-3-10   Appeals from Board of Adjustment
   
11-3-11   Reapplication after Board denial
§ 11-3-1 BOARD CREATED.
   Whereas, the City is exercising zoning powers as conferred by 11 O.S. §§ 43-
101 through 43-109, the City hereby provides for the appointment of a board of
adjustment, with powers and duties hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-3-2 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Appointment. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five residents
of the City, each appointed by the City Council, for a term of three years.
   (B)   Chairman. The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairman and acting
Chairman from its membership. The Chairman and acting Chairman shall serve as
such for the term of their appointment.
   (C)   Compensation. All members of the Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Removal; hearing. A Board member may be removed by the City Council
for cause upon the filing of written charges and after a public hearing before
the City Council.
   (E)   Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member in the manner set forth for appointments to a full term.
   (F)   Term limit. No person shall serve more than two terms in succession.
However, partial terms shall not be considered in determining the term limit.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 2-21-2008)
§ 11-3-3 MEETINGS AND RULES.
   (A)   Rules, generally.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of
the Chairman and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.
      (3)   The Chairman or, in his absence, the acting Chairman, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall be subject to the Open Meeting Laws
of the state, see 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq., and all meetings, deliberations and
voting of the Board shall be open to the public.
      (5)   The secretary of the Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep record of all official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the Office of the Code
Official and shall be public record.
   (B)   Scheduled meetings. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held
at 4:00 p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month. Additional meetings may be
held upon determination of the Board.
   (C)   Voting. The concurring vote of at least three members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination being appealed from, to decide in favor of the applicant or to
decide any matter which may properly come before it pursuant to this title and
§
11-3-4.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-3-4 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals if it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of any provision of this title;
      (2)   Hear and decide special exceptions to this title to allow a use, or
a specifically designated element associated with a use, which is not permitted
by right in a particular district because of potential adverse effect, but
which, if controlled in the particular instance as to its relationship to the
neighborhood and the general welfare, may be permitted by the Board of
Adjustment, where specifically authorized by this title, and in accordance with
the substantive and procedural standards of this title;
      (3)   Authorize, in specific cases, a variance from the terms, standards
and criteria that pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning district
as authorized by this title when such cases are shown not to be contrary to the
public interest, if, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this title will result in unnecessary hardship and so that the
spirit of this title shall be observed and substantial justice done; provided,
however, the Board shall have no power to authorize variances as to use, except
as provided by subsection (A)(4) below; and
      (4)   Hear and decide oil and/or gas applications or appeals. The Board
of Adjustment shall be required to make the findings prescribed by §
11-3-7 in order to grant a variance as to use with respect to any such
application or appeal.
   (B)   Notice and hearing.
      (1)   Exceptions and/or variances may be allowed by the Board of
Adjustment only after notice and hearing as provided for in §
11-3-8. The record of the meeting at which the variance or special exception
was granted shall show that each element of a variance or special exception was
established at the public hearing on the question; otherwise said variance or
special exception shall be voidable on appeal to the District Court.
      (2)   When exercising the powers provided for in this section, the Board
of Adjustment, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may reverse
or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination from which appealed and may make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-3-5 APPEAL OF DECISIONS BY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS.
   Appeals may be taken to the Board of Adjustment by any person aggrieved
where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of any
provision of this title.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-3-6 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Authority. The Board of Adjustment is authorized to make special
exceptions to specific uses allowed within each zoning category according to
this title in appropriate cases only in accordance with general or specific
provisions contained in this title and subject to appropriate conditions and
safeguards in harmony with its general purpose and intent.
   (B)   Powers relative to special exceptions. The Board of Adjustment is
authorized to hear and decide appeals for special exceptions to the terms of
this title in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   To permit the extension of a zoning district where the boundary
line of a district divides a lot in single ownership or shown of record;
      (2)   To interpret the provisions of this title where the actual street
layout varies from the street layout as shown on the city zoning map;
      (3)   To permit the reconstruction of an owner occupied single-family
residence, located in I-2 Light Industrial and I-3 Heavy Industrial Zoning
Districts, which have been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value;
      (4)   To grant exceptions to the off street parking requirements set
forth in Chapter 12 of this title, if it is determined:
         (a)   The size and shape of the lot to be built on is such that off
street parking provisions could not be complied with; and/or
         (b)   The proposed use will not create undue traffic congestion on
adjacent streets.
      (5)   To permit the location of owner occupied mobile homes within the
Agricultural and R-1 Residential Estate Zoning Districts in accordance with the
following provisions:
         (a)   Minimum area regulations:
            1.   Lot area: five acres;
            2.   Frontage of lot: 300 feet;
            3.   Setbacks:
               a.   Front yard: 50 feet;
               b.   Side yard: 100 feet; and
               c.   Rear yard: 100 feet.
            4.   Accessory buildings: same as A Agricultural or R-1 Residential
Estate.
         (b)   The installation of any mobile home shall be in conformance with
all city standards and regulations.
         (c)   Effect on surrounding area. The Board of Adjustment shall
determine that the location of a mobile home at the proposed site will not
adversely impact the value and qualities of the surrounding area.
      (6)   (a)   To permit telecommunications facilities within the
Agricultural, Residential, Commercial (C-1 through C-3), Industrial (I-
1 through I-2) and Special Use Zoning Districts in accordance with the
following provisions:
            1.   Such use shall comply with all rules, regulations and
licensing requirements adopted by the Federal Communications Commission and the
Federal Aviation Administration for telecommunications facilities;
            2.   The location and height of the facility is consistent with the
Vance Air Force Base Vertical Obstruction Military Compatibility Area as
depicted in figure 31 below and the Woodring Regional Airport Vertical
Obstruction Compatibility Area as depicted in figure 33 below;
   Figure 31.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/73634436cdf6f0e2217afb480350927631af51db/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3540.png]
   Figure 33.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/73634436cdf6f0e2217afb480350927631af51db/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3542.png]
            3.   If, based upon the character of the neighborhood, the zoning
and uses of the property nearby, it is determined that the detrimental effect,
it any, to nearby property is outweighed by the applicant’s need for the
facility; and
            4.   The applicant has demonstrated that there is a significant gap
in the applicant’s service coverage and that the proposed facility serves as
the least intrusive means necessary to alleviate the gap.
         (b)   If the special exception is denied, the denial shall include
specific factual findings that evidence that the site is not appropriate and
would adversely impact the surrounding area pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)
(B)(iii).
   (C)   Board consideration; actions. When considering the appeal, the Board
may weigh evidence as presented by the applicant and adjoining property owners,
as well as city staff. The Board may include additional conditions as it
considers necessary for the granting of the special exception.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-6) (Ord. 2019-12, passed 3-16-2019)
Editor’s note:
   There are no height restrictions for C-4 and I-3 Zoning Districts, and the
placement of telecommunications facilities is permitted uses in these
districts.
§ 11-3-7 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authority; purpose. The Board of Adjustment is authorized to grant
variances from the terms, standards and criteria that pertain to an allowed use
category within a zoning district as authorized by this title. Such variance
shall comply, as nearly as possible, in every respect, with the spirit, intent
and purpose of this title, it being the purpose of this provision to authorize
the granting of a variance only for reasons of demonstrable and exceptional
hardship as distinguished from variations sought by applicants for purposes or
reasons of convenience, profit or caprice. Such variance shall be granted only
when public safety and welfare are secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Findings of Board. A variance from the terms, standards and criteria
may be granted in whole, in part or upon reasonable conditions provided in this
chapter, only upon a finding by the Board of Adjustment that:
      (1)   The application of this title to the particular piece of property
would create an unnecessary hardship;
      (2)   Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved;
      (3)   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good, or impair the purposes and intent of this title or the
Comprehensive Plan; and
      (4)   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to
alleviate the unnecessary hardship.
   (C)   Burden of proof. Any person or persons applying to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance shall have the burden of showing that all of the
factors described in subsection (B) above have been met.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-7) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-3-8 NOTICE AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   Publication and mailing of notice. Notice of public hearing before the
Board of Adjustment shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City and by mailing written notice by the Secretary of the
Board of Adjustment to all owners of properly within a 300-foot radius of the
exterior boundary of the subject property. A copy of the published notice may
be mailed in lieu of written notice; however, the notice by publication and
written notice shall be published and mailed at least ten days prior to the
hearing.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice, whether by publication or mail, of a
public hearing before the Board of Adjustment shall contain:
      (1)   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the City;
      (2)   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of the
appeal, variance or exception requested; and
      (3)   The date, time and place of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-8) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-3-9 PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS TO BOARD.
   (A)   Right to appeal. Appeals from the action of an Administrative Officer
to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department or board of the City affected by a decision of the
Administrative Officer.
   (B)   Time limit; filing notice of appeal. An appeal shall be taken within
20 days of the action taken by the Administrative Officer by filing with the
Code Official, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds therefor.
   (C)   Filing fee; list of adjacent property owners. The Board of Adjustment
shall act on appeals as authorized upon payment of a filing fee of $100 to the
Office of the City Clerk. In addition, the applicant shall provide a list
containing the names and mailing addresses of all owners of property lying
within 300 feet of the exterior boundary of the subject property, as certified
by a licensed and bonded abstracting company or title insurance company.
   (D)   Records provided to Board. The officer from whom the appeal is taken
shall transmit to the Board of Adjustment certified copies of all the papers
constituting the record of the matter, together with a copy of the ruling or
order from which the appeal is taken.
   (E)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal has been filed
with him, that by reason of facts stated in the appeal a stay would, in his
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application or
notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (F)   Hearing. The Secretary of the Board of Adjustment shall schedule a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal; give public notice thereof, as
well as due notice to the parties in interest; and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-9) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-3-10 APPEALS FROM BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Right to appeal. An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment
or order of the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons,
jointly or severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer or any officer, department or
board of the City to the County District Court.
   (B)   Filing notice of appeal. The appeal shall be taken by filing a notice
of appeal with the City Clerk and with the Secretary of the Board of
Adjustment, within ten days of the decision or order of the Board of
Adjustment. The notice shall specify the grounds for the appeal. No bond or
deposit for costs shall be required for such appeal.
   (C)   Records provided to Court Clerk. Upon filing the notice of appeal, the
Board of Adjustment shall forthwith transmit to the Court Clerk the original,
or certified copies, of all papers constituting the record in the case,
together with the order, decision or ruling of the Board.
   (D)   Appeal tried in District Court. The appeal shall be heard and tried de
nova in the District Court. All issues in any proceedings under this section
shall have preference over all other civil actions and proceedings.
   (E)   Stay of proceedings. During the pendency of such an appeal, the
effectiveness of a decision of the Board of Adjustment shall not be suspended
unless a party applies to the District Court for a stay pending the District
Court’s determination of the merits of the appeal pursuant to 11 O.S. § 44-110.
Notice of such application shall be given by first class mail to all parties,
to the District Court appeal and to any applicant before the Board of
Adjustment. Upon filing of an application for stay in the District Court, all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from shall be temporarily
stayed pending the outcome of a hearing regarding the stay, which shall be
conducted within 30 days of application.
   (F)   Actions of court. The District Court may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or modify the decision brought up for review. Costs shall not be
allowed against the Board of Adjustment unless it shall appear to the District
Court that the Board acted with gross negligence or in bad faith or with malice
in making the decision appealed from. An appeal shall lie from the action of
the District Court as in all other civil actions.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-10) (Ord. 2018-11, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 11-3-11 REAPPLICATION AFTER BOARD DENIAL.
   After an application for an appeal, variance or an exception has been denied
by the Board of Adjustment, no rehearing of the original application or a new
application for the same appeal, variance or exception for the same tract of
land shall be considered by the Board of Adjustment for a period of six months
from the date of Board of Adjustment hearing on the application.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-11) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
CHAPTER 4: ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
Section
   
11-4-1   Districts established
   
11-4-2   Zoning map; boundaries of zones
   
11-4-3   Zoning of annexed areas
§ 11-4-1 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this title, the City is hereby divided into classes or
zones to be known in order of restrictiveness beginning with the most
restrictive as follows:
   (A)   Residential districts:
      (1)   A Agricultural (General);
      (2)   R-1 Residential (Estate);
      (3)   R-2 Residential (Single-Family);
      (4)   R-3 Residential (Mobile Home Neighborhood);
      (5)   R-4 Residential (Duplex or Two-Family Dwelling);
      (6)   R-4A Four-Family Residential;
      (7)   R-5 Townhouse;
      (8)   R-6 Mobile Home Park; and
      (9)   R-7 Residential (Multi-Family).
   (B)   Commercial districts:
      (1)   C-O Commercial Office;
      (2)   C-1 Light Commercial;
      (3)   C-2 Planned Business Center;
      (4)   C-3 General Commercial; and
      (5)   C-4 Commercial (Central Business).
   (C)   Industrial districts:
      (1)   I-1 Planned Industrial Park;
      (2)   I-2 Industrial (Light); and
      (3)   I-3 Industrial (Heavy).
   (D)   Special Use District: SU Special Use; and
   (E)   Supplemental zones:
      (1)   PUD Planned Unit Development;
      (2)   HP Historical Preservation;
      (3)   F Flood Hazard;
      (4)   ETS Enid Town Square Overlay;
      (5)   AED Airfield Environs Overlay; and
      (6)   CIO Commercial Incentive Overlay.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-
2004)
§ 11-4-2 ZONING MAP; BOUNDARIES OF ZONES.
   Boundaries of the zones referred to in §
11-4-1 are hereby established as shown on the map entitled “Zoning Map, Enid,
Oklahoma” and bearing date of adoption of this title. This map shall be kept by
the City as a permanent record, and which map is hereby made a part of this
title. The City shall keep the zoning map up to date, and on file at all times,
showing the latest amendments hereby adopted.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-4-3 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any area annexed to the City after the effective date of this title shall
immediately, upon such annexation, be automatically classified in the zone
according to the use which is being made of the property on the date of
annexation. Such use shall be designated and established by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
CHAPTER 5: A AGRICULTURAL (GENERAL) DISTRICT
Section
   
11-5-1   General description
   
11-5-2   Permitted uses
   
11-5-3   Uses by review
   
11-5-4   Area regulations
   
11-5-5   Height regulations
§ 11-5-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This zone is intended to apply only to tracts of land that are five acres or
more and under one ownership. It is to protect the land from urbanization until
such time as it is warranted and appropriate to reclassify the property to
allow for urban growth. The zone is primarily for agricultural land which
becomes annexed to the City for planning purposes, but is maintained as an
agricultural use. It is the purpose of this district to protect such uses from
unplanned urbanization so long as the land therein is devoted primarily to
agriculture or the extraction of minerals.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-5-2 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in this district:
      (1)   Cemetery;
      (2)   General gardening and agriculture;
      (3)   Golf course;
      (4)   Group home limited in density to five or fewer residents not
including staff;
      (5)   Home occupation;
      (6)   Mining, quarrying and earth extraction including drilling for oil
and gas;
      (7)   One-family dwelling;
      (8)   Park or playground;
      (9)   Plant nursery or greenhouse;
      (10)   Public or private stable or riding academy;
      (11)   Public utility buildings and facilities;
      (12)   Raising of livestock, but not including commercial feed lots,
slaughtering, concentration of livestock in a greater number than can normally
be pastured and fed on the premises nor the commercial processing of
agricultural products;
      (13)   Religious institutions;
      (14)   Runways, heliports and helistops for privately owned airplanes or
helicopters;
      (15)   Small wireless facility; and
      (16)   Watershed protection, including waterways, ponds, lakes and
diversion channels.
   (B)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses are permitted in this
district:
      (1)   Garden houses, tool houses, playhouses, caretaker’s quarters,
recreational facilities, private garages and similar non-objectionable
accessory buildings; and
      (2)   Stands for the sale of agricultural produce produced on the
premises; provided that no stand shall be placed closer than 35 feet from any
front lot line. Other buildings in relation to farming activities.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2) (Ord. 2019-13, passed 5-6-2019; Ord. 2020-10, passed 7-
7-2020; Ord. 2023-10, passed 7-6-2023)
§ 11-5-3 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review:
   (A)   Childcare center within a church building currently being used as a
church;
   (B)   Extraction of raw materials such as rock, gravel and sand;
   (C)   Group home providing habilitative services for more than five
residents not including staff;
   (D)   Kennel, private or commercial;
   (E)   Large family childcare;
   (F)   One standing mobile home with wheels attached and not resting on a
foundation may be permitted on a tract of land of not less than 80 acres if
occupied by the owner of said land or a caretaker responsible for the farming
operation of the land; and
   (G)   Radio and television stations, including transmission towers.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 2002-09, passed 4-
16-2002)
§ 11-5-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard:
         (a)   Adjacent to state or federal highway: 50 feet;
         (b)   Adjacent to a principal or minor arterial: 40 feet; and
         (c)   Adjacent to any public road or street other than a federal,
state or county highway and principal or minor arterial: 25 feet.
      (2)   Side yard: 20 feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 35 feet.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 200 feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family: five acres.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-5-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Principal building: 35 feet; and
   (B)   Accessory building: 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
CHAPTER 6: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Section
Article A: R-1 Residential (Estate) District
   
11-6A-1   General description
   
11-6A-2   Permitted uses
   
11-6A-3   Uses by review
   
11-6A-4   Area regulations
   
11-6A-5   Height regulations
Article B: R-2 Residential (Single-Family) District
   
11-6B-1   General description
   
11-6B-2   Permitted uses
   
11-6B-3   Uses by review
   
11-6B-4   Area regulations
   
11-6B-5   Height regulations
Article C: R-3 Residential (Mobile Home Neighborhood) District
   
11-6C-1   General description
   
11-6C-2   Size of district
   
11-6C-3   Permitted uses
   
11-6C-4   Uses by review
   
11-6C-5   Area regulations
   
11-6C-6   Height restrictions
   
11-6C-7   Connection to utilities; payment of fees
Article D: R-4 Residential (Duplex or Two-Family Dwelling) District
   
11-6D-1   General description
   
11-6D-2   Permitted uses
   
11-6D-3   Uses by review
   
11-6D-4   Area regulations
   
11-6D-5   Height regulations
Article E: R-4A Four-Family Residential District
   
11-6E-1   General description
   
11-6E-2   Permitted uses
   
11-6E-3   Uses by review
   
11-6E-4   Area regulations
   
11-6E-5   Height regulations
Article F: R-5 Townhouse District
   
11-6F-1   General description
   
11-6F-2   Permitted uses
   
11-6F-3   Uses by review
   
11-6F-4   Size of district
   
11-6F-5   Area regulations
   
11-6F-6   Height regulations
Article G: R-6 Mobile Home Park District
   
11-6G-1   General description
   
11-6G-2   Permitted uses
   
11-6G-3   Accessory uses
   
11-6G-4   Application and submission of development plan
   
11-6G-5   Development requirements
   
11-6G-6   Development plan approval
   
11-6G-7   Inspection; issuance of license
   
11-6G-8   Occupancy permit
   
11-6G-9   Other requirements
Article H: R-7 Residential (Multi-Family) District
   
11-6H-1   General description
   
11-6H-2   Permitted uses
   
11-6H-3   Area regulations
   
11-6H-4   Height regulations
ARTICLE A: R-1 RESIDENTIAL (ESTATE) DISTRICT
§ 11-6A-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The purpose of this zone is to provide an orderly transition from
agricultural to urban uses. It is intended to provide land on the urban fringe
which may be either agricultural or urban, or both, in character.
(Prior Code, § 11-6A-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6A-2 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district:
   (A)   General gardening;
   (B)   Golf and country club;
   (C)   Golf course;
   (D)   Group home limited in density to five or fewer residents not including
staff;
   (E)   Home occupation;
   (F)   One-family dwellings;
   (G)   Plant nursery;
   (H)   Private and public parks; and
   (I)   Watershed protection.
(Prior Code, § 11-6A-2) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6A-3 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review:
   (A)   Childcare center within a church building currently being used as a
church;
   (B)   Group home providing habilitative services for more than five
residents not including staff;
   (C)   Large family childcare;
   (D)   Library;
   (E)   Museums; and
   (F)   Religious institutions.
(Prior Code, § 11-6A-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6A-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet, except when abutting a principal or minor
arterial, in which case the front yard setback shall be 40 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: Ten feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 35 feet, except when abutting a principal or minor
arterial, in which case the rear yard setback shall be 40 feet.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 75 feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family: One-half acre.
(Prior Code, § 11-6A-4) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6A-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows: Principal building: 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-6A-5) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
ARTICLE B: R-2 RESIDENTIAL (SINGLE-FAMILY) DISTRICT
§ 11-6B-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is the most restrictive residential district. The principal use of this
land is for single-family dwellings. These areas are intended to be defined and
protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a function necessary to
the residential environment. Internal stability, attractiveness, order and
efficiency is encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space
for dwellings and related facilities and through consideration of the proper
functional relationship of each element.
(Prior Code, § 11-6B-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6B-2 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district:
   (A)   Group home limited in density to five or fewer residents not including
staff;
   (B)   “Home occupation”, as defined in §
11-1-7;
   (C)   One-family dwellings; and
   (D)   Public park or playground.
(Prior Code, § 11-6B-2) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6B-3 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review:
   (A)   Childcare center within a church building currently being used as a
church;
   (B)   Group home providing habilitative services for more than five
residents not including staff;
   (C)   Large family childcare;
   (D)   Municipal use, public building and public utility, but not including
storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulator stations;
   (E)   Nursing home;
   (F)   Plant nursery;
   (G)   Private clubhouse;
   (H)   Public library; and
   (I)   Religious institutions.
(Prior Code, § 11-6B-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6B-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: five feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 20 feet; however, platted lots with common area and open
space adjacent to the rear property line may use the open space as a rear yard
setback to obtain 15 feet of the 20 feet; provided:
         (a)   A recorded, irrevocable easement running with the land is
granted limiting the use of all of the open space to an open area without
buildings or structures for which a building permit is required thereon and
providing for maintenance thereof; and
         (b)   The common area is at least 40 feet in width.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 50 feet. Lots platted on cul-de-sacs shall
have a lot width of not less than 50 feet at the building line; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family: 6,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-6B-4) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6B-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows: Principal building: 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-6B-5) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
ARTICLE C: R-3 RESIDENTIAL (MOBILE HOME NEIGHBORHOOD) DISTRICT
§ 11-6C-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This zone is intended to provide a district for the use of mobile homes on
single-family lots. The minimum requirements in this district are the same as
in the R-2 District with variations to the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 11-6C-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6C-2 SIZE OF DISTRICT.
   The minimum area for an R-3 District is 36 50-foot frontage lots, or the
equivalent thereto, being a contiguous area broken only by a street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 11-6C-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6C-3 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district:
   (A)   “Home occupation”, as defined in §
11-1-7;
   (B)   One-family dwellings;
   (C)   One mobile home per lot;
   (D)   The use, occupancy or location of travel trailers and camp trailers
within mobile home neighborhoods is prohibited; and
   (E)   Public park or playground.
(Prior Code, § 11-6C-3) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6C-4 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review:
   (A)   Childcare center within a church building currently being used as a
church;
   (B)   Large family childcare;
   (C)   Municipal use, public building and public utility, but not including
storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulator stations;
   (D)   Nursing home;
   (E)   Plant nursery;
   (F)   Private clubhouse;
   (G)   Public library; and
   (H)   Religious institutions.
(Prior Code, § 11-6C-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6C-5 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: Five feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 20 feet.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 50 feet. Lots platted on cul-de-sacs shall
have a lot width of not less than 50 feet at the building line; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family: 6,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-6C-5) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6C-6 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   Height restrictions are as follows: Principal building: 35 feet
(Prior Code, § 11-6C-6) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6C-7 CONNECTION TO UTILITIES; PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The owner of any single mobile home lot occupied by a mobile home shall
connect to all available utilities and shall pay to the City the same monthly
fees for water, sewer and garbage pickup service, and shall be subject to the
same penalties for nonpayment of such fees as are prescribed by ordinance of
the City for single-family dwelling units, including discontinuance of such
service.
(Prior Code, § 11-6C-7) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
ARTICLE D: R-4 RESIDENTIAL (DUPLEX OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLING) DISTRICT
§ 11-6D-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is a residential district to provide for a slightly higher population
density, but with basic restrictions similar to the R-2 District. The principal
land is for single-family and two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-6D-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6D-2 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district:
   (A)   Group home limited in density to ten or fewer residents not including
staff;
   (B)   “Home occupation”, as defined in §
11-1-7;
   (C)   Living quarters for one family constructed above a private garage
where the garage is accessory to the principal dwelling;
   (D)   One- and two-family dwellings; and
   (E)   Public park or playground.
(Prior Code, § 11-6D-2) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6D-3 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review:
   (A)   Childcare center within a church building currently being used as a
church;
   (B)   Group home providing habilitative services for more than ten residents
not including staff;
   (C)   Large family childcare;
   (D)   Municipal use, public building and public utility, but not including
storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulator stations;
   (E)   Nursing home;
   (F)   Plant nursery;
   (G)   Private clubhouse;
   (H)   Public library; and
   (I)   Religious institutions.
(Prior Code, § 11-6D-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 2002-09, passed 4-
16-2002)
§ 11-6D-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: Five feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 20 feet.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 50 feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family: For every dwelling erected or
structurally altered, there shall be provided a lot area of not less than 6,000
square feet in area for a one-family dwelling and not less than 7,000 square
feet for a two-family dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 11-6D-4) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6D-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows: Principal building: 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-6D-5) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
ARTICLE E: R-4A FOUR-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 11-6E-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is a residential district to provide for low to medium population
density. The principal use of this district is to provide for three- and four-
family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-6E-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6E-2 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-4 Residential District;
   (B)   Group home limited in density to 20 or fewer residents, not including
staff;
   (C)   “Home occupation”, as defined in §
11-1-7;
   (D)   Small wireless facility; and
   (E)   Three- or four-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-6E-2) (Ord. 2019-13, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 11-6E-3 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review:
   (A)   Childcare center within a church building currently being used as a
church;
   (B)   Group home providing habilitative services for more than 20 residents
not including staff;
   (C)   Large family childcare;
   (D)   Municipal use, public building and public utility, but not including
storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulator stations;
   (E)   Nursing home;
   (F)   Plant nursery;
   (G)   Private clubhouse;
   (H)   Public library; and
   (I)   Religious institutions.
(Prior Code, § 11-6E-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 2002-09, passed 4-
16-2002)
§ 11-6E-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: Five feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 20 feet.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 50 feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family: A lot occupied by a single-family
dwelling shall contain an area of not less than 6,000 square feet. A lot
occupied by a two-family dwelling shall contain a lot area of not less than
7,000 square feet. A lot area occupied by a three- or four-family dwelling
shall contain an area of not less than 2,500 square feet per family.
(Prior Code, § 11-6E-4) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6E-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows: Principal building: 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-6E-5) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
ARTICLE F: R-5 TOWNHOUSE DISTRICT
§ 11-6F-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is a residential district to provide for low to medium population
density. The principal use of this district is to provide for townhouses. The
townhouse development can provide more flexibility in design and more variety
in residential development. The district will also provide more efficient
allocation of parks, recreation area and open space.
(Prior Code, § 11-6F-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6F-2 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-2, R-4 or R-4A Districts;
   (B)   “Home occupation”, as defined in §
11-1-7; and
   (C)   Townhouses: dwelling units in detached, semidetached or attached
structures.
(Prior Code, § 11-6F-2) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6F-3 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted upon review:
   (A)   Childcare center within a church building currently being used as a
church;
   (B)   Large family childcare;
   (C)   Municipal use, public building and public utility, but not including
storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulator stations;
   (D)   Nursing home;
   (E)   Plant nursery;
   (F)   Private clubhouse;
   (G)   Public library; and
   (H)   Religious institutions.
(Prior Code, § 11-6F-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6F-4 SIZE OF DISTRICT.
   R-5 zoning shall be approved only on a tract of land proposed to be
developed for ten or more dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 11-6F-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6F-5 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Lot size: Lot size shall be not less than 2,000 square feet for each
dwelling unit; and
   (B)   Setback requirements:
      (1)   Yards:
         (a)   Front yard; local street: Ten feet (15 feet minimum for garage);
minor arterial: 20 feet;
         (b)   Side yard: None, except when abutting other residential zones or
residential developments, in which case the side yard shall be five feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard: Ten feet, except when abutting other residential
zones or residential developments, in which case the rear yard shall be 20
feet.
      (2)   Back to back structures:
         (a)   Single-story: 40 feet between structures; and
         (b)   Two-story: 50 feet between structures.
(Prior Code, § 11-6F-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6F-6 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows: Principal building: 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-6F-6) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
ARTICLE G: R-6 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
§ 11-6G-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The purpose and intent of this district is to establish and provide minimum
acceptable standards, requirements and regulations for the planned use,
development and maintenance of mobile homes and mobile home parks within the
corporate limits of the City, for the protection of the health, safety and
general welfare. The standards, requirements and regulations are provided to
encourage mobile home park use, development and maintenance in locations and in
a manner for safe and sanitary living conditions and convenience for purpose of
employment, shopping, education and the availability of other necessary
community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
Cross-reference:
   Mobile home and mobile home park regulations, see
Title 9, Chapter 12
§ 11-6G-2 PERMITTED USES.
   In an R-6 District, no use shall be allowed other than those uses considered
as an integral part of the park, such as:
   (A)   Camp trailers;
   (B)   Dependent mobile homes;
   (C)   Mobile homes; and
   (D)   Travel trailers.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6G-3 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses permitted in this district are as follows.
   (A)   Service facilities. Accessory building or structure containing service
facilities, including the following and similar uses:
      (1)   Recreation facilities limited to those serving occupants of the
park;
      (2)   Restroom and sanitary facilities;
      (3)   Storage of household goods; and
      (4)   Washroom laundry facilities.
   (B)   Office. One mobile home within a mobile home park may be used as an
administrative office. Other administrative offices and service buildings for
housing sanitation, laundry or other facilities shall be of permanent
structure, complying with all pertinent provisions of this code relating to
construction and maintenance, for the use of all the park.
   (C)   Repair facility or home business. No repair facility or home business
of any kind shall be permitted, authorized, maintained or allowed within a
mobile home park.
   (D)   Commercial sale of mobile homes. The commercial sale of mobile homes
within a mobile home park in conjunction with the maintenance and operation of
a mobile home park shall be conducted only on land that has been appropriately
zoned in which such sales are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-3) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6G-4 APPLICATION AND SUBMISSION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to create, establish, develop or
construct a mobile home park or expand a mobile home park shall make written
application, to include the following:
   (A)   Applicant’s name and mailing address; and
   (B)   Five copies of a mobile home park development plan, to include the
following, on a scaled drawing of an appropriate dimension prepared by a
registered engineer, architect or land surveyor so indicated by signature and
seal:
      (1)   A north arrow, date, scale and appropriate legend;
      (2)   Two-foot contour intervals;
      (3)   Location and size of all easements, utilities and rights-of-way,
existing and proposed;
      (4)   All public and private street names;
      (5)   Location and size of all proposed mobile home spaces, utility and
drainage easements, public streets and rights-of-way, private drives with
surface types, walkways, parking spaces with surface types, drainage
improvements, recreational spaces, screening, offices, laundry building and
other contemplated permanent structures or improvements;
      (6)   Location and size of all existing or proposed permanent
improvements, including pads, off street parking with surface types and
utilities; and
      (7)   All proposed front, side and rear yard setback distances.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6G-5 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Dimensional and site development requirements.
      (1)   No mobile home park shall be developed, constructed or maintained
on a lot or tract of land of less than two and one-half acres fronting on a
major or minor arterial street. No drive within the park shall have direct
access to the arterial street.
      (2)   A convenient circulation system for vehicular movement shall be
provided within a mobile home park by means of minor streets and properly
located collector streets. Collector streets shall be paved for a minimum width
of 27 feet. If parallel guest parking is desired, an additional seven feet
shall be provided on one side of a street. Parallel parking shall not be
permitted on both sides of any street. Dead end streets shall have a cul-de-sac
with a diameter of no less than 50 feet.
      (3)   All private streets within a mobile home park shall be constructed
of materials in accordance with the following standards for sealed surface
paving covering either earth, gravel or other natural or artificial base or
foundation and approved by the City Engineer:
         (a)   A minimum of three inches or four inches of rock aggregate not
to exceed one and one-half inches of crusher run limestone spread, rolled or
packed into a properly drained area; then, to be primed with a minimum coat of
MCI, RC 70 or 250 asphalt equal to an amount of 0.25, 0.30 gallons per square
yard; and then, to be sprayed with an equal amount of MC800 or AC4; then, to be
covered with a minimum coat or layer of three-eighths inch of limestone chips,
broomed or rolled into the surface;
         (b)   Three inches of hot asphaltic concrete on a four-inch base of
compacted soil, gravel or a base thickness equivalent thereto; or
         (c)   Five inches of portland cement concrete with a minimum of 3,000
psi on a two-inch cushion base.
      (4)   All private streets within a mobile home park shall be maintained
in good condition.
      (5)   All public streets within a mobile home park shall be constructed
in accordance with the subdivision street paving standards of the City, and
approved by the City Engineer.
      (6)   Adequate facilities for drainage of surface water shall be provided
for within a mobile home park, to include proper grading and, where necessary,
the installation of gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, storm and
water sewers or other satisfactory drainage systems.
      (7)   All drainage plans shall be prepared by a professional engineer and
submitted to the city engineer for approval prior to the issuance of any mobile
home park permit.
      (8)   A buffer zone of not less than 20 feet in width from the property
line of a mobile home park to the nearest home therein shall be required to
provide a continuous buffer along all side and rear yards of the mobile home
park.
      (9)   A buffer zone of not less than 25 feet in depth shall be provided
to extend along the entire frontage of the mobile home park where the said park
abuts a public street or thoroughfare.
      (10)   Screening of seventy-five percent (75%) opaque and six feet in
height by any combination of adequate fencing, landscaping or planting to
provide visual separation and privacy shall be provided where a mobile home
park abuts an incompatible use or zoning district and where existing foliage
within the buffer zone provided is not sufficient for screening purposes.
      (11)   All interior streets and pedestrian walkways within a mobile home
park shall be lighted with lampposts placed at intervals of not less than 300
feet.
      (12)   Fire hydrants and water mains of adequate size and number shall be
provided for within a mobile home park. Fire hydrants shall be located no
greater than 400 feet apart as measured by street travel, requiring the
inspection and approval of the Fire Chief.
      (13)   All refuse containers shall be located upon a concrete pad in
designated areas for collection. In addition, all collection areas shall be
screened on three sides with fencing, vegetation or any combination thereof for
a height of not less than five feet.
   (B)   Individual lot requirements.
      (1)   Each mobile home park space or lot for a mobile home shall satisfy
all of the following requirements:
         (a)   There shall be a paved concrete or all weather patio area of no
less than 100 square feet;
         (b)   There shall be two paved off street parking spaces no less than
18 feet in width by 20 feet in length;
         (c)   There shall be a visible identifying number or letter; and
         (d)   There shall be walkways not less than two feet wide from the
mobile home to the driveway or park street.
      (2)   Each mobile home park space or lot shall be developed of adequate
size and shape to provide:
         (a)   A minimum of 20 feet clearance between mobile homes;
         (b)   A minimum of 15 feet clearance between mobile homes parked end
to end; and
         (c)   A minimum of 15 feet clearance between the mobile home and any
abutting roadway.
   (C)   Individual mobile home requirements. No mobile home, addition, storage
building or related structure shall be located within five feet of any lot
line; provided, however, no mobile home addition or storage building shall be
located, constructed or maintained within any dedicated easement, right-of-way,
buffer area or drainage area.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §§
9-12-16 and
9-12-17 (A)
§ 11-6G-6 DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Review, hearing and approval. The mobile home park site plan shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission for review, study and recommendation. The
same shall then be submitted to the City Council for approval, denial or
conditional approval only after said board conducts a public hearing concerning
such development plan. Once approved, the land covered by such mobile home park
plan shall be developed in accordance therewith as approved, and any change,
modification, revision or deviation thereof may be grounds for the revocation
of the mobile home park license issued and deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Modification of plan. The Planning Commission or the City Council may
require certain alterations, modifications or amendments of the mobile home
park development plan when deemed necessary for the inclusion of easements,
rights-of-way, utilities or any other amendment necessary for the general
welfare of the public.
   (C)   Improvement bonds. Improvement bonds may also be required to be
furnished on the subject property for public streets, water lines, sewer lines,
drainage structures and all other public improvements.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-6) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6G-7 INSPECTION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon completion of a mobile home park or the expansion of a mobile home
park, the Code Official shall be immediately notified of the same by the
permittee. After such notification, the Code Official, without unnecessary
delay, shall cause there to be an inspection of the mobile home park, and if
the said mobile home park has been developed and constructed in compliance with
all the pertinent provisions of this title and in accordance with the approved
mobile home park development plan, the Code Official shall issue to the
permittee a license to operate a mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-7) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6G-8 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No mobile home lot shall be occupied by a mobile home
without the issuance of an occupancy permit by the Code Official.
   (B)   Application for permit. Any person desiring to move a mobile home onto
any mobile home lot shall first make written application to the Code Official.
Such application shall include the following:
      (1)   Applicant’s name;
      (2)   Mobile home park title and mobile home lot description; and
      (3)   A plot plan of the mobile home lot indicating the proposed location
of the mobile home.
   (C)   Inspection.
      (1)   Upon inspection of the mobile home plot plan, the Code Official
shall grant or deny the applicant permission to move the mobile home.
      (2)   The applicant shall then move the mobile home onto the mobile home
lot and immediately notify the Code Official that the mobile home is in place.
However, the tractor used to transport the mobile home shall not be
disconnected until an on site inspection is performed by the Code Official, or
his representative.
      (3)   Upon notification, the Code Official, or his representative, shall
immediately inspect the mobile home lot to ensure all setback requirements are
in compliance with §§
9-12-16 and
9-12-17, as well as §
11-6G-5(B) and (C).
   (D)   Permission for occupancy. If the mobile home is determined to be in
compliance with applicable setback distances, permission shall then be given to
prepare the mobile home for occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-8) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6G-9 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   For other requirements of mobile homes and mobile home parks, see
Title 9, Chapter 12.
(Prior Code, § 11-6G-9) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
ARTICLE H: R-7 RESIDENTIAL (MULTI-FAMILY) DISTRICT
§ 11-6H-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is a residential district to provide for medium and high population
density. The principal use of this district can range from single-family to
multi-family and garden apartment uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-6H-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6H-2 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-4A Residential District;
   (B)   Childcare center;
   (C)   Condominium or cooperative housing;
   (D)   Educational institutions;
   (E)   Fraternity or sorority houses;
   (F)   Group home;
   (G)   Home occupation;
   (H)   Housing for the elderly which may contain common services comprising,
but not limited to, central dining rooms, recreational areas, central lounge
and workshops;
   (I)   Multi-family dwellings and apartment houses;
   (J)   Nursing home;
   (K)   Philanthropic institutions;
   (L)   Private clubhouse;
   (M)   Public library, public buildings, public utility, but not to include
storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulators.
   (N)   Public parks and playgrounds;
   (O)   Religious institutions; and
   (P)   Rooming or boarding house.
(Prior Code, § 11-6H-2) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-6H-3 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard: 20 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: 20 feet; and
      (3)   Side yard: Five feet.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 50 feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling: 6,000 square feet;
         (b)   Two-family dwelling: 7,000 square feet; and
         (c)   Multi-family dwelling: Minimum of 7,000 square feet, plus an
additional 1,200 square feet for each family unit more than two on the ground
floor; 1,000 square feet per family on the second floor and 900 square feet per
family on the third floor.
(Prior Code, § 11-6H-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-6H-4 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows: Anything over three stories or 40 feet,
by review only.
(Prior Code, § 11-6H-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
CHAPTER 7: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Section
Article A: C-O Commercial Office District
   
11-7A-1   General description
   
11-7A-2   Permitted uses
   
11-7A-3   Area regulations
   
11-7A-4   Site design requirements
Article B: C-1 Light Commercial District
   
11-7B-1   General description
   
11-7B-2   District use regulations
   
11-7B-3   Development regulations
   
11-7B-4   Site design requirements
Article C: C-2 Planned Business Center District
   
11-7C-1   General description
   
11-7C-2   Location
   
11-7C-3   Size of district
   
11-7C-4   Permitted uses
   
11-7C-5   Dimensional standards
Article D: C-3 General Commercial District
   
11-7D-1   General description
   
11-7D-2   District use regulations
   
11-7D-3   Development regulations
   
11-7D-4   Site design requirements
Article E: C-4 Commercial (Central Business) District
   
11-7E-1   General description
   
11-7E-2   Permitted uses
   
11-7E-3   Uses by review
   
11-7E-4   Area regulations; yards
ARTICLE A: C-O COMMERCIAL OFFICE DISTRICT
§ 11-7A-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The Commercial Office District is designed to accommodate administrative and
professional offices and certain basic services which can occupy low rise
buildings in low land use intensity areas. Emphasis is placed on aesthetic
considerations, such as landscaping, setbacks, sign control and restrictive
building height. The district may serve as a buffer between more intensive land
uses and low intensity residential districts. Outdoor storage of goods and
merchandise is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 11-7A-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7A-2 PERMITTED USES.
   Property and buildings in the C-O Commercial Office District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-5 District;
   (B)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and similar uses;
   (C)   Medical offices, including clinics;
   (D)   Office buildings for executive, administrative, professional,
accounting, writing, clerical, stenographic, drafting and sales and non-profit
organizations;
   (E)   Publicly owned buildings, exchanges and public utility offices, but
not including storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulator
stations;
   (F)   Other uses which are in keeping with the general description of this
district and are similar to the above uses; and
   (G)   Accessory uses customarily related to a permitted use authorized by
this section, such as an advertising sign, a pharmacy, stores limited to
corrective garments or bandages, optical company, restaurant or private club,
may be permitted; provided they are accessory and do not have a direct outside
entrance for customers. Restaurants, private clubs or assembly occupancies
shall, however, have a direct or protected means of exit leading to the outside
of the building.
(Prior Code, § 11-7A-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7A-3 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following area requirements shall apply to any property petitioned for
C-O Commercial Office District regulations after September 15, 1987.
   (A)   Area. No parcel of land shall be less than 7,500 square feet unless
such parcel abuts upon an arterial street, in which case it shall not be less
than 12,000 square feet.
   (B)   Frontage. No parcel shall have a frontage of less than 50 feet,
measured along the front property line unless such parcel abuts upon an
arterial street, in which case the lot line adjacent to, and contiguous with,
the arterial street, whether it is the front lot line or not, shall not be less
than 100 feet in length.
(Prior Code, § 11-7A-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7A-4 SITE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   It is intended that building and parking areas be designed to protect,
insofar as possible, the value and character of adjacent residential areas. In
no case shall the design of a site proposed for development after September 15,
1987, provide less than the following standards. For purposes of this section,
PROPOSED FOR DEVELOPMENT shall mean the formal submission of a site development
plan in compliance with Chapter 11 of this title.
   (A)   Height. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height, measured from the
mean elevation of the lot.
   (B)   Yards. Yard measurements are as follows:
      (1)   Front yard: The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet,
measured from the front property line;
      (2)   Side yard: The minimum depth of the side yard shall be as follows:
         (a)   Zero feet, unless the lot abuts a residential or agricultural
district or development, in which case the setback shall be ten feet, measured
from the side property line abutting the residential or agricultural district
or development; or
         (b)   Twenty-five feet, measured from the side street property line of
a corner lot.
      (3)   Rear yard: The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be as follows:
         (a)   Zero feet, unless the lot abuts a residential or agricultural
district or development, in which case the setback shall be ten feet, measured
from the rear property line abutting the residential or agricultural district
development; and
         (b)   Twenty-five feet, measured from the rear property line of a
through or double frontage lot.
   (C)   Screening and landscaping. Property shall be landscaped and screened
in accordance with Chapter 11 of this title.
   (D)   Off street parking; access. All permitted uses shall contain adequate
space to provide for parking, loading, and maneuvering of vehicles in
accordance with
Chapter 12  of this title and §
11-14-6 .
   (E)   Signs. All advertising signs relating to the permitted uses shall be
designed in such a manner as to be harmonious with the other design features of
the site, and to conform with
Chapter 13  of this title.
   (F)   Site plan. Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any
permitted use, a site plan shall be submitted and approved in accordance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
(Prior Code, § 11-7A-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
ARTICLE B: C-1 LIGHT COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 11-7B-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The purpose of this commercial district is for the conduct of general and
professional offices and a limited number of retail trade activities to provide
for the needs and convenience of the people of adjacent residential areas and
the community in such a manner as to not be offensive to a general neighborhood
containing residential, religious, recreational and educational elements. It is
intended that this district be located as not to introduce traffic into a
solely residential district, but to serve as a buffer between residential and
more intensive commercial activities.
(Prior Code, § 11-7B-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7B-2 DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in the C-1 Light Commercial
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the C-O District;
      (2)   Accounting and insurance offices, banks, loan companies, real
estate offices and other businesses which perform services on the premises;
      (3)   Dry cleaning establishments or pickup stations dealing directly
with the consumer;
      (4)   Generally recognized retail businesses which supply commodities on
the premises for persons residing in adjacent residential areas, such as, but
not limited to, bakeries, book and stationary stores (retail), clothing,
convenience stores, dairy products, delicatessen, dry goods, florist,
groceries, hardware, meat market, notions, pharmacies and self-service gas
stations (no repair);
      (5)   Personal service establishments which perform services, such as,
but not limited to, appliance and small item shops (watches, radio, television,
shoe and the like); beauty parlors or barbershops; dance schools, photographic,
artists and other miscellaneous studios; post offices, self-service laundries;
tailor shops; and governmental offices buildings serving persons living in
adjacent residential areas; and
      (6)   Professional services, including medical clinics (outpatient only)
and offices of doctors, dentists, osteopaths and similar professions.
   (B)   Uses permitted by review. The following uses may be permitted after
review in accordance with §
11-14-1 :
      (1)   Bars or other establishments dispensing beer for consumption on the
premises;
      (2)   Billiard parlors, pool halls;
      (3)   Building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical contractor shops;
      (4)   Business schools;
      (5)   Car wash;
      (6)   Ceramic shops;
      (7)   Commercial greenhouses and garden supply shops;
      (8)   Mortuary establishments;
      (9)   Public or private parking lots needed to accommodate any use
permitted in the commercial zoning districts;
      (10)   Restaurants, cafés or drive in restaurants;
      (11)   Service stations (excluding body repair work); and
      (12)   Other uses which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, are
similar to the above, uses and are in keeping with the general description of
the zoning district and meet the conditions for authorization as specified in §
11-14-1(B).
(Prior Code, § 11-7B-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 2020-10, passed 7-
7-2020; Ord. 2023-10, passed 7-6-2023)
§ 11-7B-3 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   The following area requirements shall apply to any property petitioned for
C-1 Light Commercial District designation after September 15, 1987.
   (A)   Area. The minimum lot size shall be 12,000 square feet.
   (B)   Frontage. No parcel shall have frontage of less than 100 feet,
measured along the front property line, and if the lot abuts upon an arterial
street, the lot line adjacent to and contiguous with, the arterial street,
whether it is the front lot line or not, shall not be less than 100 feet in
length.
(Prior Code, § 11-7B-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7B-4 SITE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to any site proposed for development
after September 15, 1987. For purposes of this section, PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
shall mean the formal submission of a site development plan in compliance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
   (A)   Height. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height, measured from the
mean elevation of the lot.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard: The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet,
measured from the front property line.
      (2)   Side yard: The minimum depth of the side yard shall be as follows:
         (a)   Zero feet, unless the lot abuts a residential or agricultural
district or development, in which case the setback shall be ten feet, measured
from the side property line abutting the residential or agricultural district
or development; or
         (b)   Twenty-five feet, measured from the side street property line of
a corner lot.
      (3)   Rear yard: The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be as follows:
         (a)   Zero feet, unless the lot abuts a residential or agricultural
district or development, in which case the setback shall be ten feet, measured
from the rear property line abutting the residential or agricultural district
or development; or
         (b)   Twenty-five feet, measured from the rear property line of a
through or double frontage lot.
   (C)   Screening and landscaping. Property shall be landscaped and screened
in accordance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
   (D)   Off street parking, access. All permitted uses shall contain adequate
space to provide for parking, loading and maneuvering of vehicles in accordance
with
Chapter 12  of this title and §
11-14-6 .
   (E)   Signs. Advertising signs relating to the permitted uses of this
article shall be designed in such a manner as to be harmonious with the other
design features of the site, and shall conform with
Chapter 13  of this title.
   (F)   Site plan. Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any
permitted use, a site plan shall be submitted and approved in accordance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
(Prior Code, § 11-7B-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
ARTICLE C: C-2 PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER DISTRICT
§ 11-7C-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This district is intended to provide areas suitable and desirable for a
planned and coordinated development of shopping goods and personal services in
a unified design. Uses in this zone have a great reliance on the principle of
cumulative attraction within the center. This district maximizes use of parking
and circulation provisions.
(Prior Code, § 11-7C-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7C-2 LOCATION.
   (A)   Unified control. A planned business center may be established upon any
tract of land held by single ownership or under unified control; provided that
a plan of development has been submitted in compliance with the regulations of
this article. UNIFIED CONTROL, for purposes of this district, implies joint
ownership in the form of a property owners’ association or partnership
agreement whereby all owners agree to the collective development of all
property within the district.
   (B)   Traffic control. The site location of a C-2 District shall have an
acceptable relationship to the established major traffic thoroughfare system to
handle the additional traffic generated by this type of development.
(Prior Code, § 11-7C-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7C-3 SIZE OF DISTRICT.
   The minimum area of a planned business center shall be five acres.
(Prior Code, § 11-7C-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7C-4 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted in a planned business center may include the following: All
uses permitted in the C-3 District.
(Prior Code, § 11-7C-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7C-5 DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Height. Maximum height of a building: Four stories or 45 feet.
   (B)   Minimum setbacks. All buildings shall be set back not less than 50
feet from any thoroughfare from which there is access. All other buildings
shall be set back not less than 25 feet from a boundary line of such area.
(Prior Code, § 11-7C-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
ARTICLE D: C-3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 11-7D-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This commercial district is intended for the activity of personal and
business services and the general retail business of the community. Persons
living in the community and in the surrounding trade territory require direct
and frequent access to this district. Traffic generated by uses will be
primarily passenger vehicles and only those trucks and commercial vehicles
required for stocking and delivery of retail goods.
(Prior Code, § 11-7D-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7D-2 DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in the C-3 General Commercial
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the C-1 Light Commercial District;
      (2)   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning and bodywork;
      (3)   Automobile sales and service;
      (4)   Bakery (commercial or wholesale);
      (5)   Banks, savings and loan and finance companies;
      (6)   Bars and private clubs;
      (7)   Billiard and pool halls;
      (8)   Bottling works;
      (9)   Bowling alley;
      (10)   Building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical contractor shop;
      (11)   Bus station or service;
      (12)   Business schools;
      (13)   Car wash;
      (14)   Clothing store;
      (15)   Containers;
      (16)   Dancing schools or studios;
      (17)   Discount stores;
      (18)   Dry cleaners or notion store;
      (19)   Electrical shops;
      (20)   Feed and seed store;
      (21)   Florist or gift shop;
      (22)   Food processing (retail on the premises);
      (23)   Furniture store;
      (24)   Garages (service, storage or sales) for motor vehicles;
      (25)   Glass fabrication and installation;
      (26)   Grocery store;
      (27)   Hardware store;
      (28)   Itinerant merchant/transient vendor;
      (29)   Jewelry;
      (30)   Kennel;
      (31)   Laundry or dyeing establishment;
      (32)   Manufacture of articles sold only at retail on the premises;
      (33)   Medical facilities (hospitals, clinics);
      (34)   Medical marijuana dispensary;
      (35)   Metal fabrication, light (sheet metal, ducts, gutters and
leaders);
      (36)   Miniature golf course or commercial driving range;
      (37)   Ministorage, rental storage;
      (38)   Mobile home sales;
      (39)   Motel or hotel;
      (40)   Movie theaters;
      (41)   Music stores, studios;
      (42)   Offices;
      (43)   Optical and scientific instruments and jewelry manufacturing;
      (44)   Pawnshops, secondhand and auction stores;
      (45)   Pet store;
      (46)   Printing, lithographic or publishing company.
      (47)   Public garages;
      (48)   Public parking lots;
      (49)   Radio and television broadcasting studios;
      (50)   Recreational facilities (including swimming pool);
      (51)   Restaurants, drive-in restaurants;
      (52)   Service stations;
      (53)   Shoe store and repair;
      (54)   Small animal hospitals;
      (55)   Taxi service;
      (56)   Taxidermist;
      (57)   Television and radio repair shops;
      (58)   Tourist courts and motels (for travel, camp trailers);
      (59)   Transfer and storage offices;
      (60)   Upholstering shops;
      (61)   Weaving apparel (fabrication and processing); and
      (62)   Wholesale sales office and sample rooms.
   (B)   Uses permitted by review. The following uses may be permitted after
review in accordance with §
11-14-1 :
      (1)   “Adult entertainment use”, as defined in §
11-1-7;
      (2)   Warehouse, commercial; provided that the gross floor area of such
warehouse shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total tract, lot or
parcel of land on which it is situated;
      (3)   R-7 Residential Multi-Family use; and
      (4)   Any other similar business or service which is in keeping with the
general description, and meets the conditions for authorization as specified in
§
11-14-1.
(Prior Code, § 11-7D-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 2009-19, passed 8-
4-2009; Ord. 2019-22, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 2020-10, passed 7-7-2020; Ord.
2023-10, passed 7-6-2023)
§ 11-7D-3 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   The following area requirements shall apply to any property petitioned for
C-3 General Commercial District designation after September 15, 1987.
   (A)   Area. The minimum lot size shall be 12,000 square feet.
   (B)    Frontage. No parcel shall contain frontage of less than 100 feet,
measured along the front property line. If the property abuts upon an arterial
street, the lot line adjacent to and contiguous with, the arterial street,
whether it is the front lot line or not, shall not be less than 100 feet in
length.
(Prior Code, § 11-7D-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7D-4 SITE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to any site proposed for development
after September 15, 1987. For purposes of this section, PROPOSED FOR
DEVELOPMENT shall mean the formal submission of a site development plan in
compliance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
   (A)   Height. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height, measured from the
mean elevation of the lot.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard: The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet,
measured from the front property line;
      (2)   Side yard: The minimum depth of the side yard shall be as follows:
         (a)   Zero feet, unless the lot abuts a residential or agricultural
district or development, in which case the setback shall be ten feet, measured
from the side property line abutting the residential or agricultural district
or development; and
         (b)   Twenty-five feet, measured from the side street property line of
a corner lot.
      (3)   Rear yard: Minimum depth of the rear yard shall be as follows:
         (a)   Zero feet, unless the lot abuts a residential or agricultural
district or development, in which case the setback shall be ten feet, measured
from the side property line abutting the residential or agricultural district
or development; and
         (b)   Twenty-five feet, measured from the rear property line of a
through or double frontage lot.
   (C)   Screening and landscaping. Property shall be landscaped and screened
in accordance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
   (D)   Off street parking; access. All permitted uses shall contain adequate
space to provide for parking, loading and maneuvering of vehicles in accordance
with
Chapter 12  of this title and §
11-14-6 .
   (E)   Signs. All advertising signs relating to the permitted uses shall be
designed in such a manner as to be harmonious with the other design features of
the site, and shall conform with
Chapter 13  of this title.
   (F)   Site plan.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any permitted use, a
site plan shall be submitted and approved in accordance with
Chapter 11 of this title.
      (2)   As specified in §
11-11-4(A)(8), exceptions to the site plan review provisions, temporary uses
are not required to comply with the site development regulations. However, all
temporary uses such as, but not limited to, itinerant merchants/transient
vendors, shall comply with the height and yard requirements as set forth in
this article. In addition, all such temporary land uses shall provide adequate
space for parking, loading and maneuvering of vehicles; and shall comply with
Chapter 13 of this title, sign regulations. Itinerant merchants and transient
vendors shall comply with the licensing and bonding requirements of
Title 3, Chapter 11.
(Prior Code, § 11-7D-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
ARTICLE E: C-4 COMMERCIAL (CENTRAL BUSINESS) DISTRICT
§ 11-7E-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This district is designated as the Central Business District or the downtown
shopping and employment area for the community and surrounding area. The
district is intended to provide space for retailing of all kinds, professional
offices, financial institutions, transient residential facilities and limited
wholesaling.
(Prior Code, § 11-7E-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7E-2 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district: Any use permitted in the
C-3 General Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 11-7E-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7E-3 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review:
   (A)   “Adult entertainment use”, as defined in §
11-1-7;
   (B)   Light manufacturing; and
   (C)   Warehouse, general.
(Prior Code, § 11-7E-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-7E-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Front yard: None;
   (B)   Side yard: None; and
   (C)   Rear yard: None.
(Prior Code, § 11-7E-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
CHAPTER 8: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Section
Article A: I-1 Planned Industrial Park District
   
11-8A-1   General description
   
11-8A-2   Location
   
11-8A-3   Size of district
   
11-8A-4   Submission of development plan
   
11-8A-5   Permitted uses
   
11-8A-6   Area regulations
Article B: I-2 Industrial (Light) District
   
11-8B-1   General description
   
11-8B-2   Submission of development plan
   
11-8B-3   Permitted uses
   
11-8B-4   Uses by review
   
11-8B-5   Area regulations; yards
   
11-8B-6   Height regulations
Article C: I-3 Industrial (Heavy) District
   
11-8C-1   General description
   
11-8C-2   Submission of development plan
   
11-8C-3   District use regulations
   
11-8C-4   Area regulations; yards
   
11-8C-5   Height regulations
ARTICLE A: I-1 PLANNED INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT
§ 11-8A-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The purpose of the Planned Industrial Park District is to accommodate a
limited group of professional administrative, wholesale, retail, service,
research and manufacturing uses which may have unusual requirements for space,
light and air, and the operations of which are quiet and clean to ensure the
creation and maintenance of an environment which will serve the mutual interest
of the community as a whole, as well as the adjacent residential areas and the
occupants of the industrial park area in particular.
(Prior Code, § 11-8A-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-8A-2 LOCATION.
   A Planned Industrial Park District may be established upon any tract of land
held by a single owner or under unified control, provided a development plan is
submitted in compliance with the provisions of this article, and from the plan
submitted, the Planning Commission finds that the proposed Planned Industrial
Park District is in keeping with the master plan of the area and will not
adversely affect surrounding properties. Further, great care and discretion
should be given to the proper size and spacing of Planned Industrial Park
Districts to keep from overcapacitating utility lines and streets.
(Prior Code, § 11-8A-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-8A-3 SIZE OF DISTRICT.
   The minimum area of a Planned Industrial Park District shall be ten acres.
(Prior Code, § 11-8A-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-8A-4 SUBMISSION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Inspection and recommendation. The proponents of a planned industrial
park shall submit a plan of development to city staff for its inspection and
recommendations.
   (B)   Information required. The development plan shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Location and size of area involved;
      (2)   All improvements of surrounding properties lying within 500 feet of
the proposed I-1 District;
      (3)   All building locations of the proposed I-1 District;
      (4)   All parking and loading locations of the proposed I-1 District;
      (5)   Provisions for the adequate disposition of natural stormwater in
accordance with the adopted design criteria, standards and ordinances of the
City, indicating the location, size, type and grade of ditches, catch basins
and pipes, connections to existing drainage systems and on site stormwater
detention systems. All such design criteria shall be approved by the City
Engineer; and
      (6)   Existing topography, with a maximum contour interval of two feet
and proposed finished grading by contours of two feet supplemented where
necessary by spot elevation.
   (C)   Building permit issuance. Prior to the issuance of any building
permits, there must be an approved development plan with any revisions
requested by city staff, and on file in the city planning offices.
(Prior Code, § 11-8A-4) (Ord. 2013-41, passed 10-15-2013)
§ 11-8A-5 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted in the planned industrial park may include the following:
   (A)   Any use charged with the principal function of basic research, design
and pilot or experimental product development;
   (B)   Any use, except dwellings, permitted in the C-3 General Commercial
District. No dwelling use, except sleeping facilities required by caretakers or
night watchmen employed on the premises, shall be permitted in this district;
   (C)   Administrative and professional offices;
   (D)   Apparel (clothing) and other products manufactured from textile;
   (E)   Automobile and truck sales operations; provided that the storage of
vehicles kept for servicing and repair must be totally screened from public
view;
   (F)   Banks and financial institutions;
   (G)   Building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical contractors’
warehousing; provided that the storage of materials and supplies are contained
within an enclosed building totally screened from public view;
   (H)   Cameras and other photographic equipment and supplies;
   (I)   Commercial medical marijuana grow facility;
   (J)   Containers;
   (K)   Dentures and drugs;
   (L)   Jewelry;
   (M)   Laboratories: medical, dental, research, testing;
   (N)   Manufacture and assembly of electrical and electronic products;
   (O)   Medical appliances;
   (P)   Musical instruments;
   (Q)   Plastic products;
   (R)   Precision instruments;
   (S)   Printing, newspaper publishing and binding;
   (T)   Retailing of agricultural machinery, equipment and supplies normally
required for farming operations, but excluding heavy equipment commonly used in
dirt or paving construction;
   (U)   Sporting and athletic equipment;
   (V)   Temporary industrial work force housing;
   (W)   Toys;
   (X)   Wholesale operations; provided that the storage of materials and
supplies are contained within an enclosed building or totally screened from
public view; and
   (Y)   Any other manufacturing or service establishments that, in the opinion
of the Planning Commission, are similar in use to the type listed above.
(Prior Code, § 11-8A-5) (Ord. 2013-4, passed 2-5-2013; Ord. 2023-10, passed 7-
6-2023)
§ 11-8A-6 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Minimum lot size: One-half acre;
   (B)   Minimum yard dimensions:
      (1)   Front yard: 50 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: Ten feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 25 feet.
   (C)   Maximum height of buildings: 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-8A-6) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
ARTICLE B: I-2 INDUSTRIAL (LIGHT) DISTRICT
§ 11-8B-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This industrial district is intended primarily for the activity of light
manufacturing, assembling and fabrication and for warehousing, wholesale and
service uses. These do not depend primarily on frequent personal visits of
customers or clients, but may require good accessibility to major rail, air or
street transportation routes.
(Prior Code, § 11-8B-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-8B-2 SUBMISSION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Plans for development on property zoned I-2 abutting arterials or
within 300 feet of an arterial shall submit a plan of development to city staff
for its inspection and recommendations.
   (B)   The development plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   Location and size of area involved;
      (2)   All improvements of surrounding properties lying within 100 feet of
the proposed I-2 development;
      (3)   All building locations of the proposed I-2 development;
      (4)   All parking and loading locations of the proposed I-2 development;
      (5)   Provisions for the adequate disposition of natural stormwater in
accordance with the adopted design criteria, standards and ordinances of the
City, indicating the location, size, type and grade of ditches, catch basins
and pipes, connections to existing drainage systems and on site stormwater
detention systems. All such design criteria shall be approved by the City
Engineer; and
      (6)   Existing topography, with a maximum contour interval of two feet
and proposed finished grading by contours of two feet supplemented where
necessary by spot elevation.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of any building permits, there must be an
approved development plan with any revisions requested by city staff, and on
file in the city planning offices.
(Prior Code, § 11-8B-2) (Ord. 2013-41, passed 10-15-2013)
§ 11-8B-3 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Uses; restrictions.
      (1)   Uses permitted:
         (a)   Any use, except dwellings, permitted in the commercial
districts. No dwelling use, except sleeping facilities required by caretakers
or night watchmen employed on the premises, shall be permitted in this
district, except in accordance with §
11-8B-4;
         (b)   Building material sales yard and lumberyard, including the sale
of rock, sand, gravel and the like as an incidental part of the main business,
but not including a concrete batch plant or transit mix plant;
         (c)   Containers;
         (d)   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors;
         (e)   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
         (f)   Oil field equipment storage yard;
         (g)   Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or
transforming station;
         (h)   Sale barn;
         (i)   Temporary industrial work force housing; and
         (j)   Wholesale liquor warehouse.
      (2)   Restrictions: No article or material permitted in this district
shall be kept stored or displayed outside the confines of a building when
abutting a residential zone or residential development, unless it be so
screened by fences, walls or planting that it cannot be seen from adjoining
public streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing on ground
level.
   (B)   Uses within enclosed building. The following uses when conducted
within a completely enclosed building:
      (1)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radios and phonographs, including the manufacture of small parts only,
such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystal holders and the like;
      (2)   Blacksmith shop and machine shop, excluding punch presser over 20
tons’ rated capacity, drop hammer and automatic screw machines;
      (3)   Commercial medical marijuana grow facility and processor;
      (4)   Foundry casting lightweight nonferrous metal not causing noxious
fumes or odors;
      (5)   Manufacture and maintenance of electric and neon signs, commercial
advertising structures, light sheet metal products, including heating and
ventilation ducts, and equipment, cornices, eaves and the like;
      (6)   Manufacture, compounding, assembly or treatment of articles of
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone, cellophane,
canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather,
paper, plastic, precious or semiprecious metals or stone, shell textiles,
tobacco, wood, yarn and paint not employing a boiling process;
      (7)   Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products, drugs,
perfumes, pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries and food products;
      (8)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties and rubber and
metal stamps;
      (9)   Manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products, using only previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas; and
      (10)   Truck repair and overhauling, tire retreading or recapping and
battery manufacturing.
   (C)   Compliance with pollution regulations. The uses permitted under this
section shall be conducted in such a manner that any noxious odor, fumes or
dust generated beyond the property line of the lot on which the use is located
will do so only with compliance with all city, state and federal pollution
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-8B-3) (Ord. 2013-4, passed 2-5-2013; Ord. 2023-10, passed 7-
6-2023)
§ 11-8B-4 USES BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review:
   (A)   “Adult entertainment use”, as defined in §
11-1-7;
   (B)   Impound lots; provided the property can be used in compliance with
ordinances licensing impound lots;
   (C)   Salvage yards; provided the property can be used in compliance with
ordinances licensing salvage yards, see
Title 3 Chapter 10;
   (D)   Single-family dwelling or a mobile or manufactured home; provided the
use meets the conditions for authorization as specified in §
11-14-1, and is consistent with the character of the surrounding property; and
   (E)   Any other similar business or service which is in keeping with the
general description and meets the conditions of authorization as described in §
11-14-1.
(Prior Code, § 11-8B-4) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 11-8B-5 AREA REGULATIONS; YARDS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Front yard:
      (1)   Adjacent to state or federal highway: 40 feet;
      (2)   Adjacent to a principal arterial: 30 feet;
      (3)   Adjacent to a minor arterial or a section line road: 25 feet; and
      (4)   Adjacent to any public road or street other than a federal, state
or county highway and principal arterial: 25 feet.
   (B)   Side yard: None; and
   (C)   Rear yard: None unless abutting a federal, state or county highway, or
arterial street, or residential zone or development in which case the setback
shall be 40 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-8B-5) (Ord. 2004-12, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 11-8B-6 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed three and one-half stories or 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 11-8B-6) (Ord. 2004-12, passed 4-6-2004)
ARTICLE C: I-3 INDUSTRIAL (HEAVY) DISTRICT
§ 11-8C-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This industrial district is generally intended to provide for heavy
industrial uses as well as other uses not otherwise provided for in the
districts established by this title. The intensity of uses permitted in this
district makes it desirable that they be located in an area separated from
residential and commercial uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-8C-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-8C-2 SUBMISSION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Plans for development on property zoned I-3 abutting arterials or
within 300 feet of an arterial shall submit a plan of development to city staff
for its inspection and recommendations.
   (B)   The development plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   Location and size of area involved;
      (2)   All improvements of surrounding properties lying within 100 feet of
the proposed I-3 development;
      (3)   All building locations of the proposed I-3 development;
      (4)   All parking and loading locations of the proposed I-3 development;
      (5)   Provisions for the adequate disposition of natural stormwater in
accordance with the adopted design criteria, standards and ordinances of the
City, indicating the location, size, type and grade of ditches, catch basins
and pipes, connections to existing drainage systems and on site stormwater
detention systems. All such design criteria shall be approved by the City
Engineer; and
      (6)   Existing topography, with a maximum contour interval of two feet
and proposed finished grading by contours of two feet supplemented where
necessary by spot elevation.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of any building permits, there must be an
approved development plan with any revisions requested by city staff and on
file in the city planning offices.
(Prior Code, § 11-8C-2) (Ord. 2013-41, passed 10-15-2013)
§ 11-8C-3 DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS.
   Property and buildings in an I-3 Heavy Industrial District may be used for
any use except the following:
   (A)   All residential uses except sleeping facilities required by night
watchmen and caretakers employed upon the premises, except in accordance with §
11-8B-4;
   (B)   All uses not complying with these regulations or any other city,
county, state or federal regulation or law;
   (C)   All of the following uses until they have been studied by the Planning
Commission and have received the express approval of the City Council. The
Commission may require approval of the County Health Department, the Oklahoma
Fire Marshal and other state and county regulating agencies and may attach to
the approval specific restrictions designed to protect the public welfare:
      (1)   Acid manufacture;
      (2)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
      (3)   Containers;
      (4)   Explosives, manufacture or wholesale (liquid explosive) storage;
      (5)   Gas manufacture;
      (6)   Grain elevator and storage;
      (7)   Petroleum or its products, refining of;
      (8)   Temporary industrial work force housing; and
      (9)   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline, propane, butane or other
petroleum.
   (D)   Salvage yards, unless authorized by review under
Title 3, Chapter 10, as to property which can comply with the requirements of
licensing ordinances for salvage yards;
   (E)   Impound lots, unless authorized by review under
Title 3, Chapter 10, as to property which can comply with the requirements of
licensing ordinances for impound lots; and
   (F)   “Adult entertainment use”, as defined in §
11-1-7, except as provided for in §
11-14-1.
(Prior Code, § 11-8C-3) (Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 11-8C-4 AREA REGULATIONS; YARDS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Front yard: Same as I-2 District;
   (B)   Side yard: None; and
   (C)   Rear yard: None.
(Prior Code, § 11-8C-4) (Ord. 2004-13, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 11-8C-5 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows: None.
(Prior Code, § 11-8C-5) (Ord. 2004-13, passed 4-6-2004)
CHAPTER 9: SU SPECIAL USE DISTRICT
Section
   
11-9-1   General description
   
11-9-2   District use regulations
   
11-9-3   Development regulations
   
11-9-4   Site design requirements
§ 11-9-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   This district is intended for those uses not otherwise specifically
covered by the other districts.
   (B)   The primary purpose is for public and quasi-public uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-9-2 DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in the SU Special Use District
shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any uses accessory to schools and colleges that are owned and/or
controlled by said schools or colleges, including one-family, two-family and
multi-family dwellings;
      (2)   Containers;
      (3)   Country clubs;
      (4)   Federal, state and city owned property;
      (5)   Golf course (public or private);
      (6)   Hospitals, clinics and medical or dental office surrounding, and in
direct relationship to, the hospital or clinic;
      (7)   Libraries and museums, publicly or privately owned;
      (8)   Public and private schools and colleges, not to include daycare
centers; and
      (9)   Small wireless facility.
   (B)   Uses permitted by review. The following uses may be permitted after
review in accordance with §
11-14-1 :
      (1)   Temporary industrial work force housing; and
      (2)   Other uses which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, are
similar to the above uses and are in keeping with the general description of
the zoning district and meet the conditions for authorization as specified in §
11-14-1.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-2) (Ord. 2019-13, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 11-9-3 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   The following area requirements shall apply to any property petitioned for
SU Special Use District designation after March 21, 1989.
   (A)   Area. The minimum lot size shall be 12,000 square feet.
   (B)   Frontage. No parcel shall have frontage of less than 100 feet,
measured along the front property line, and if the lot abuts upon an arterial
street, the lot line adjacent to and contiguous with, the arterial street,
whether it is the front lot line or not, shall not be less than 100 feet in
length.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-9-4 SITE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to any site proposed for development
after March 21, 1989. For purposes of this section, PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT shall
mean the formal submission of a site development plan in compliance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
   (A)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed 45 feet in height,
measured from the mean elevation of the lot.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard. The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet
measured from the front property line.
      (2)   Side yard. The minimum depth of the side yard shall be as follows:
         (a)   Zero feet, unless the lot abuts a residential or agricultural
district or development, in which case the setback shall be ten feet, measured
from the side property line abutting the residential or agricultural district
or development; and
         (b)   Twenty-five feet, measured from the side street property line of
a corner lot.
      (3)   Rear yard. The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be as follows:
         (a)   Zero feet, unless the lot abuts a residential or agricultural
district or development, in which case the setback shall be ten feet, measured
from the rear property line abutting the residential or agricultural district
or development; and
         (b)   Twenty-five feet, measured from the rear property line of a
through or double frontage lot.
   (C)   Screening and landscaping. Property shall be landscaped and screened
in accordance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
   (D)   Off street parking; access. All permitted uses shall contain adequate
space to provide for parking, loading and maneuvering of vehicles in accordance
with
Chapter 12  of this title and §
11-14-6 .
   (E)   Signs. Advertising signs relating to the permitted uses of this
chapter shall be designed in such a manner as to be harmonious with the other
design features of the site, and shall conform with
Chapter 13  of this title.
   (F)   Site plan. Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any
permitted use, a site plan shall be submitted and approved in accordance with
Chapter 11  of this title.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
CHAPTER 10: SUPPLEMENTAL ZONES
Section
Article A: PUD Planned Unit Development
   
11-10A-1   General description
   
11-10A-2   Intent and purpose
   
11-10A-3   Location
   
11-10A-4   Design
   
11-10A-5   Effect of PUD approval
   
11-10A-6   Reserved
   
11-10A-7   Reserved
   
11-10A-8   Private streets and alleys
   
11-10A-9   Residential developments; uses permitted
   
11-10A-10   Nonresidential developments; uses permitted
   
11-10A-11   Building height restrictions; setbacks
   
11-10A-12   Setback requirements
   
11-10A-13   Administration of PUD
   
11-10A-14   Preapplication review
   
11-10A-15   Application for rezoning and master development plan
   
11-10A-16   Preliminary site development plan and plat
   
11-10A-17   Final site development plan and plat
   
11-10A-18   Issuance of building permits
Article B: HP Historic Preservation Districts
   
11-10B-1   Purpose of Historic Preservation Districts
   
11-10B-2   Definitions
   
11-10B-3   Area of jurisdiction
   
11-10B-4   District created
   
11-10B-5   General provisions and description
   
11-10B-6   District identification
   
11-10B-7   District regulations
   
11-10B-8   Ordinary maintenance and repair
   
11-10B-9   Uses adjacent to district
   
11-10B-10   Zoning designation process
   
11-10B-11   Interim control
   
11-10B-12   Certificate of appropriateness
   
11-10B-13   Certificate of economic hardship
   
11-10B-14   Demolition approval; procedure
   
11-10B-15   Minimum maintenance
   
11-10B-16   Commission review; appeal
   
11-10B-17   Taxes
   
11-10B-18   Property owned by public agencies
   
11-10B-19   Kenwood and Waverley Historic Districts
Article C: ETS Enid Town Square Overlay District
   
11-10C-1   General description
   
11-10C-2   Purpose and intent
   
11-10C-3   District boundaries
   
11-10C-4   Permitted uses
   
11-10C-5   Prohibited uses
Article D: AED Airfield Environs Overlay District
   
11-10D-1   Purpose and intent
   
11-10D-2   Definitions
   
11-10D-3   Airfield environs subdistricts
   
11-10D-4   Clear Zone (CZ)
   
11-10D-5   Accident Potential Zone (APZ) I
   
11-10D-6   Accident Potential Zone (APZ) II
   
11-10D-7   Noise Zone (NZ) 65<70 dB
   
11-10D-8   Noise Zone (NZ) 70<75 dB
   
11-10D-9   Noise Zone (NZ) 75<80 dB
   
11-10D-10   Noise Zone (NZ) 80+ dB
   
11-10D-11   Certain land uses prohibited
   
11-10D-12   Nonconforming uses
   
11-10D-13   Tables; land use compatibility
   
11-10D-14   Noise level reduction guidelines
Article E: CIO Commercial Incentive Overlay District
   
11-10E-1   General description
   
11-10E-2   Location
   
11-10E-3   District use regulations
   
11-10E-4   Area regulations
   
11-10E-5   Site design requirements
   
11-10E-6   Building design
   
11-10E-7   Number of permitted dwelling units/residential intensity
   
11-10E-8   Nonresidential intensity
   
11-10E-9   Private streets
   
11-10E-10   Administration
Article F: Webster Park Area R-4 (Duplex or Two-Family) Residential
Manufactured
Housing Overlay District
   
11-10F-1   Intent
   
11-10F-2   Purpose
   
11-10F-3   Boundaries of Overlay District
   
11-10F-4   Permitted uses
   
11-10F-5   Use by review
   
11-10F-6   Area regulations
   
11-10F-7   Height regulations
Article G: Southern Heights R-2 Residential Manufactured Housing Overlay
District
   
11-10G-1   Intent
   
11-10G-2   Purpose
   
11-10G-3   Boundaries of Overlay District
   
11-10G-4   Permitted uses
   
11-10G-5   Use by review
   
11-10G-6   Area regulations
   
11-10G-7   Height regulations
Article H: Infill Residential Planned Unit Development
   
11-10H-1   General description
   
11-10H-2   Intent and purpose
   
11-10H-3   Location
   
11-10H-4   Design
   
11-10H-5   Effect of SPUD approval
   
11-10H-6   Administration of SPUD
   
11-10H-7   Preapplication review
   
11-10H-8   Application for consideration of the SPUD
   
11-10H-9   Application for review of site plan
   
11-10H-10   Issuance of building permits
ARTICLE A: PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 11-10A-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The planned unit development is designed to provide for small and large
scale developments incorporating a single type or a variety of residential,
commercial, industrial and related uses, which are planned and developed as a
unit. Such development may consist of individual lots or it may have common
building sites. Common land and preservation of open space should be an
essential and major element of the plan which is related to, and affects the
long term value of, the homes and other development. A planned unit development
shall be a separate entity with a distinct character in harmony with
surrounding development.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-2 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of these regulations to encourage unified design of
housing, commercial, office, institutional and industrial areas and facilities
or combinations thereof and to provide for integrated developments having
harmony of design and a variety of functions.
   (B)   The purpose is to provide greater flexibility in the design of
buildings, yards, courts and circulation, than would otherwise be possible
through the strict application of the general zoning district regulations, and
to produce:
      (1)   A maximum choice in the types of environment and living units
available to the public;
      (2)   Open space and recreation areas;
      (3)   A pattern of development which preserves trees, outstanding natural
topography and geologic features and prevents soil erosion;
      (4)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
development;
      (5)   An efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities
and streets and thereby lowering housing costs;
      (6)   An environment of stable character in harmony with the surrounding
development; and
      (7)   A more desirable environment than would be possible through the
strict application of other zoning district regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-3 LOCATION.
   A PUD shall be permitted in any residential, commercial or industrial zoning
district or combination of districts.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-4 DESIGN.
   (A)   Development. The proposed PUD shall be designed to provide for the
unified development of the area in accordance with the spirit and the purposes
of the districts in which it is located.
   (B)   Modifications. Design may provide for modification of yard, setback
and height requirements on individual lots; but the density and intensity of
the use requirements of the underlying zoning districts as applied to the total
area of the PUD shall not be changed, except in accordance with this article.
   (C)   Building Code requirements. Building Code requirement shall not be
reduced in the design of the PUD.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-5 EFFECT OF PUD APPROVAL.
   (A)   Overlay district.
      (1)   The PUD is an overlay district. The underlying zoning and land use
plan designations on the property shall continue to establish residential
densities, and amount and type of commercial and industrial land uses. The
overlay provision permits these uses and densities to be transferred or
relocated within the PUD in accordance with this article and the approved
master development plan.
      (2)   When a PUD is located within two or more of the following differing
general classifications, each classification shall be separately calculated and
allocated with the PUD by said general classification:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Office;
         (c)   Commercial; and
         (d)   Industrial.
   (B)   Increasing intensity of use or density. Where a parcel does not
possess adequate zoning already in place to permit the desired PUD, the
property owner shall include with the PUD request, an application for rezoning
to the proper categories. This may be approved as part of the PUD approval
process.
   (C)   Time limit. Construction shall be started within one year of the
effective date of approval of the subdivision final plat for all or a portion
of the PUD. Failure to begin the development within said one year shall
automatically void the development plan within said one year, and the City
Council may vacate the plat. The developer shall be notified, in writing, of
the expiration of the approval within 15 days from the expiration date by the
Office of the Code Official. Action shall be taken by the Planning Commission
and the City Council to amend the zoning map to repeal the PUD designation, and
the land shall remain in the same zoning classification which existed
immediately preceding the approval of the PUD.
   (D)   Platting required. No modification of the use, bulk or area
requirements of the applicable underlying use district or districts shall be
permitted unless a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions and
requirements of this article is submitted and approved in accordance with the
subdivision regulations and shall further include such covenants as will
reasonably assure the continued compliance with the approved master development
plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-6 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 11-10A-7 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
§ 11-10A-8 PRIVATE STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Private streets and alleys may be permitted within a PUD if the following
criteria are met.
   (A)   Separation from adjacent parcels. The private streets are not
connected with an adjacent parcel which is not a part of the PUD.
   (B)   Long term maintenance. The owner/applicant shall clearly demonstrate
the existence and capabilities of a property owners’ association to provide the
ongoing and long term maintenance of the private street and alley facilities
that will not be provided by the City.
   (C)   Compliance with city standards; modifications allowed. The private
streets shall be designed and constructed with the City’s standards and
specifications for public streets and alleys; provided that modifications may
be requested and approved as a part of the master development plan if the
following criteria are met.
      (1)   Construction and design shall be adequate to provide a traffic
carrying and utility installation capacity related to the design of the overall
street system, the function of the individual street and the land use served.
      (2)   Paving cross-sections shall be designed to be adequate to provide
acceptable drainage in conformity with the drainage plan for the PUD, to
receive loading commensurate with anticipated traffic based on the design of
the overall street system, and to be a maintenance level commensurate with that
of facilities constructed to regular city standards.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-8) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-9 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS; USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Principal uses.
      (1)   When located in R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or R-5 Districts, the
development may consist of one or more dwelling unit types permitted in the R-
7 District.
      (2)   Mobile home dwellings are permitted uses only within PUDs which are
located in whole or in part in an R-3 District or R-6 District. Mobile home
developments may be located within the PUD irrespective of the general R-3 or
R-6 Zoning District boundaries if such uses are designed and located to be
compatible with other uses of the PUD and with the residential use of adjacent
properties.
   (B)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses customarily incidental to principal
uses within the PUD are permitted. In addition to accessory uses customarily
incidental to permitted principal residential uses, accessory commercial
facilities may be included within the residential portion of a PUD in
accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   The accessory commercial uses may include, but not be limited to,
the following uses:
         (a)   Athletic clubs and facilities (public or private);
         (b)   Bakery, retail only;
         (c)   Barbershop;
         (d)   Beauty shop;
         (e)   Bookstore;
         (f)   Cafeteria;
         (g)   Candy store;
         (h)   Dairy store;
         (i)   Delicatessen;
         (j)   Dry cleaning, pick up;
         (k)   Food specialty store;
         (l)   Gift, novelty, souvenir shop;
         (m)   Grocery (other than supermarkets);
         (n)   Health food store;
         (o)   Hobby store;
         (p)   Ice cream store;
         (q)   Laundry, pick up;
         (r)   Liquor store;
         (s)   Newsstand;
         (t)   Office (performing services to residential areas);
         (u)   Pharmacy;
         (v)   Private club;
         (w)   Pro shop;
         (x)   Restaurant (other than drive throughs);
         (y)   Shoe repair shop;
         (z)   Tailor shop;
         (aa)   Tobacco store; and
         (bb)   Uses other than those listed above must be specifically
approved by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In residential PUDs, the aggregate floor area of accessory
commercial uses shall not exceed 50 square feet per dwelling unit or a total of
30,000 square feet, whichever is less, exclusive of tennis, swimming,
racquetball and health facilities.
      (3)   Each accessary commercial establishment, except private clubs or
restaurants, shall be limited to a maximum of 3,500 square feet enclosed floor
area.
      (4)   The accessory commercial uses shall be internally oriented,
designed primarily for the service, convenience and benefit of the residents of
the PUD, and shall be designed and located in such a manner as to be compatible
with the residential uses of the PUD and of adjacent properties. No
freestanding accessory commercial structure shall be located within 300 feet of
the perimeter of the PUD.
      (5)   All unenclosed parking lots within residential PUDs containing more
than ten spaces shall contain a minimum of ten foot landscaped strips along all
street frontages with shade trees planted in an amount equivalent to one shade
tree for every 35 feet of street frontage. In addition, the remaining perimeter
of the parking lot shall be planted with a four foot landscaped strip and shade
trees in the amount equivalent to one shade tree for every 50 feet of the
perimeter which does not abut upon a public street. For the purposes of this
article, landscaped strips may include trees, shrubs, flower beds, planted
earthen berms and other vegetation as well as ornamental objects such as
decorative fences, walls, statues and fountains.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-9) (Ord. 2015-17, passed 4-14-2015; Ord. 2021-01, passed
1-5-2021)
§ 11-10A-10 NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS; USES PERMITTED.
   In commercial, office, education, medical, industrial and other types of
nonresidential PUDs, the permitted uses are the same as those for the district
or districts in which the PUD is located, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   Ground signs. For the purposes of this article, GROUND SIGN shall mean
any sign which is attached to, or a part of, a completely self-supporting
structure. The supporting structure is not attached to any building or any
other structure and is anchored firmly to, or below, the ground surface.
      (1)   No ground sign shall be located within 150 feet of any residential
area, either within or abutting the PUD, unless separated by an arterial
street.
      (2)   Any ground sign shall maintain a minimum separation of 100 feet
from any other ground sign.
      (3)   Ground signs shall not exceed 25 feet in height, measured from the
mean curb level of the lot upon which it is erected, except a sign, when
located behind the building setback line, may exceed 25 feet but shall not
exceed 40 feet in height.
   (B)   Signs; display surface area.
      (1)   The aggregate display surface area for wall or canopy signs shall
not exceed two square feet per each linear foot of the building wall to which
the sign or signs are fixed.
      (2)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted above, a lot
containing one or more business establishments may utilize for business signs
an aggregate display surface area of ground signs as follows: If not more than
one ground sign is erected, one square foot of display surface area per each
linear foot of street frontage; provided that only arterial street frontage
shall be used in the computation of display surface area for lots that abut
more than one street. If more than one ground sign is erected, five-tenths
square foot of display surface area per linear foot of street frontage;
provided that only arterial street frontage shall be used in the computation of
display surface area for lots that abut more than one street.
      (3)   In addition to the wall or canopy signs permitted in subsection (B)
(1) above, and in addition to the business ground signs permitted in subsection
(B)(2) above, a lot containing four or more business establishments may erect
one ground sign for each arterial street frontage identifying the commercial or
industrial complex and individual tenants therein, not exceeding in the
aggregate display area one square foot per four feet of linear arterial street
frontage.
   (C)   Parking.
      (1)   All unenclosed parking lots within nonresidential PUDs or
nonresidential portions of PUDs containing more than ten spaces must have a
minimum of ten foot landscaped strip adjacent to their perimeters with shade
trees planted in the amount equivalent to one shade tree for every 35 feet of
perimeter linear footage. On perimeters adjacent to residentially zoned land,
the landscaped strip shall contain seventy-five percent (75%) opaque screening
which shall include a solid wall, fence or compact evergreen hedge not less
than four feet in height.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements specified in subsection (C)(1)
above, unenclosed parking lots with more than 20 spaces shall have a minimum of
two percent (2%) of the interior surface area landscaped and shall have a
permanent underground watering system.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-10) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-11 BUILDING HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; SETBACKS.
   Building heights may exceed the restrictions within the applicable general
zoning district when the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Setback distance requirements.
      (1)   Any building height which exceeds 35 feet shall be set back from an
abutting property or development in an A, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-4A or R-
5 Zoning District a minimum of 25 feet plus two feet for each one foot of
additional height exceeding 35 feet up to and including 55 feet in height.
      (2)   Any structure exceeding 55 feet in height up to and including 75
feet in height shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from any abutting
property or development in an A, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-4A or R-5 Zoning
District.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall prescribe minimum setbacks for any
building exceeding 75 feet in height.
   (B)   Compliance with airport restriction zones. All building and structure
heights shall be in compliance with the airport restriction zones of Vance Air
Force Base and Woodring Municipal Airport.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-11) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-12 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Industrial uses. Within a PUD, all industrial uses shall comply with
the minimum setback requirements and dimensional standards of the general
industrial district or districts in which the PUD is located, subject to the
perimeter requirements specified below. There shall be no minimum setback
requirements for all other zoning districts within the PUD, except as otherwise
provided in this article and the construction code of the City.
   (B)   Perimeter requirements. The building setback from the exterior
boundaries of the PUD shall not be less than the minimum yards customarily
required for the district or districts in which located; provided, however,
that perimeter setbacks along arterial streets shall not be less than the
following:
 
District                Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
Nonresidential district 50 feet    50 feet   50 feet
Residential district    40 feet    25 feet   30 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-12) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-13 ADMINISTRATION OF PUD.
   The developer of a PUD shall follow a five-step application and review
procedure:
   (A)   Optional preapplication review;
   (B)   Application for rezoning, submission of master development plan and
PUD design statement;
   (C)   Preliminary plat and preliminary site development plan;
   (D)   Final plat and final site development plan; and
   (E)   Application for building permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-13) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-14 PREAPPLICATION REVIEW.
   Prior to submission of an application for rezoning for PUD, the applicant
should discuss with the Director of Community Development the procedure for
adopting a PUD and the requirements for the general layout of the major
roadways and utilities, access to arterials, general design and narrative, the
availability of existing services and similar matters. The Director shall also
advise the applicant, where appropriate, to discuss the proposed development
with those officials who must eventually approve the various aspects of the
proposal coming within their jurisdiction. The intent of the preapplication
review is to expedite the mandatory design review process and to facilitate the
approval of the master development plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-14) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-15 APPLICATION FOR REZONING AND MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Filing application. Any person, corporation, partnership, association
or combination thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in a
tract of land may make application for the supplemental district designation
PUD. Such application shall be accompanied by a master development plan. An
application for the supplemental district designation PUD may be processed
simultaneously with an application for an amendment to the underlying general
zoning district(s) and made contingent upon approval of said application.
   (B)   Application and master development plan.
      (1)   An application for a PUD shall be filed with the Planning
Commission. The application shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with
the following fee schedule to defray the cost of the public notice and
investigation:
         (a)   For all proposed R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-4A and R-5 underlying
zoning district acreage: $50 plus $2 per acre; and
         (b)   For all other proposed underlying zoning district acreage: $50
plus $5 per acre.
      (2)   Three copies of the master development plan showing the major
details of the proposed development at a scale of not less than one inch equals
200 feet shall accompany the filing of the application. The master development
plan shall consist of maps and text which contain:
         (a)   A site plan reflecting:
            1.   Proposed location and approximate size in acres or square feet
of all uses, including off street parking and building areas in commercial and
industrial PUDs or portions of PUDs, open spaces and public uses;
            2.   General development standards for location, height, setback
and size of buildings and other structures;
            3.   General design standards for all proposed signs;
            4.   General development standards for proposed landscaping;
            5.   Public and private vehicular and pedestrian circulation
systems including major points of access to public rights-of-way;
            6.   Existing and proposed land use intensity designation, density
of proposed dwelling units by type and proposed floor area ratios of commercial
structures;
            7.   The relationship to adjoining uses and properties, including
adjacent land uses, zoning, densities, circulation systems, public utilities
and facilities and drainage areas; and
            8.   The existing topography, all floodplain areas, all drainage
areas in acres, treed areas and slope and general soil classifications.
         (b)   A written explanation of the character of the PUD:
            1.   A legal description of the PUD;
            2.   A list of all owners and developers of the PUD;
            3.   Title of the PUD and a description of the PUD concept;
            4.   Proposed sequence and schedule of development;
            5.   Statement of improvements to be made to the major
transportation system and major utility systems;
            6.   Statement of applicant’s intention to future ownership of all
portions of the PUD; and
            7.   Proposed restrictions and covenants which will govern the use
and continued maintenance of the development.
   (C)   Project phasing. All information and data required at the master
development plan stage must include the entire PUD site. Applications for
preliminary plans and plats may be made for any portion of the overall master
development plan. Requirements may be made for off site public improvements on
a phased project.
   (D)   Public hearing and Planning Commission action.
      (1)   The Director of Community Development, upon filing of an
application for the supplemental district designation PUD, shall set the matter
for public hearing in accordance with the regular procedures for zoning
applications. Within 60 days after the filing of an application, the Planning
Commission shall conduct the public hearing and shall determine:
         (a)   Whether the PUD is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Whether the PUD harmonizes with the existing and expected
development of surrounding areas;
         (c)   Whether the PUD is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site; and
         (d)   Whether the PUD is consistent with the stated purposes of the
standards of this article.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall forward its recommendations, the
application and the master development plan to the City Council for further
hearing.
   (E)   Action by City Council. Upon receipt of the application, master
development plan and Planning Commission recommendation, the City Council shall
hold a hearing, review the master development plan and approve, disapprove,
modify or return the master development plan to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. Upon approval, the zoning map shall be amended to
reflect the supplemental designation PUD, and the applicant shall be authorized
to process a preliminary plat and preliminary site development plan
incorporating the provisions of the master development plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-15) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-16 PRELIMINARY SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PLAT.
   (A)   Filing of application; fee.
      (1)   Upon approval of the zoning and the master development plan,
application may be filed for a preliminary plan and preliminary plat review.
      (2)   Materials pertaining to the preliminary plan and plat must all be
submitted to the Community Development Department by the administratively
designated deadline at least two weeks prior to the meeting of the Metropolitan
Area Planning Commission, at which time the preliminary plan and plat will be
considered.
      (3)   Application for preliminary plat and preliminary site development
plan approval shall be accompanied by a fee of $50 to defray the cost of
administrative review and investigation.
      (4)   After the Community Development Department has received the
preliminary plan and plat application in the form herein required, the matter
will be placed on the agenda for the appropriate meeting of the Metropolitan
Area Planning Commission.
   (B)   Contents of preliminary plans. In addition to the requirements of the
city subdivision regulations for preliminary plats, the following shall be
submitted either on the preliminary plat or on separate plan sheets to the same
scale:
      (1)   The existing site conditions, including contours at two foot
intervals; all watercourses; 50-year and 100-year floodplains; unique natural
features and vegetative cover, including all existing trees;
      (2)   The tentative location and floor area of all existing and proposed
buildings, structures and other improvements, including maximum heights, types
of dwelling units, density per type and nonresidential structures, including
commercial and industrial facilities;
      (3)   Preliminary architectural elevations of the proposed improvements
sufficient to relay the basic architectural intent;
      (4)   The general drainage system, including the number of acres in each
drainage area and proposed coverage of buildings and structures for the purpose
of calculating storm drainage runoffs and storm drainage retention
requirements;
      (5)   The location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated, reserved or otherwise used as common open space, public
park, recreational areas, school sites and similar public and semipublic uses;
      (6)   The existing and proposed circulation system of arterial, collector
and local streets, including off street parking areas, service areas, loading
zones and major points of access to public rights-of-way (including major
points of ingress and egress to the development). Notations of proposed
ownership (public or private) should be included where appropriate. Right-of-
way and paved surfaces for each street shall be shown in accordance with the
minimum design standards outlined in this article and the current EMA
transportation plan. The existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system,
including its interrelationships with the vehicular circulation system,
indicating proposed treatment of points of conflict;
      (7)   The existing and proposed utility systems, including sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, water, fire hydrants and trash collection areas;
      (8)   A general landscaping plan indicating the treatment of materials
used for private and common open spaces. The details of size and species for
intended plantings of vegetation will be required at the final plan phase;
      (9)   A map of the area which surrounds the site within a distance of at
least 300 feet, showing surrounding land uses, zoning classifications,
densities, circulation systems and public facilities;
      (10)   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the PUD, including
materials and techniques used for screening such as fencing, walls and other
landscaping; and
      (11)   Street cross-section schematics shall be submitted for each
general category of street to be included within the proposed development (one
of local, subcollector, collector streets) to include proposed width, treatment
of curbs and gutters, sidewalk systems and bikeway systems. Street designs must
be consistent with the minimum street standards contained in this article.
   (C)   Public hearing and Planning Commission action. The Director of
Community Development, upon the filing of an application for preliminary plan
and preliminary plat approval, shall set the matter for public hearing. The
Planning Commission shall conduct the public hearing and shall determine:
      (1)   Whether the preliminary plan and preliminary plat are consistent
with the master development plan;
      (2)   Whether the preliminary plan and plat harmonize development with
the existing and expected development of surrounding areas;
      (3)   Whether the preliminary plan and plat represent a unified treatment
of the development possibilities of the particular project site; and
      (4)   Whether the preliminary plan and plat are consistent with the
stated purposes and standards of this article.
   (D)   Final plan and plat. Upon approval by the Planning Commission, the
applicant shall be authorized to process a final site development plan and
final plat incorporating the provisions of the preliminary site development
plan and preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-16) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-17 FINAL SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PLAT.
   (A)   Filing of application; fee.
      (1)   After approval by the Planning Commission of the preliminary plan
and plat, application may be made for approval of the final site development
plan and the final plat, which shall be in substantial compliance with the
requirements of the approved preliminary plan. The final site development plan
and final plat shall be deemed in substantial compliance with the preliminary
site development plan and preliminary plat; provided that the final site
development plan and final plat do not:
         (a)   Involve a reduction of more than five percent (5%) of the area
reserved for common open space or useable open space;
         (b)   Increase the floor area proposed for nonresidential use by more
than five percent (5%);
         (c)   Increase residential densities; and
         (d)   Increase total ground area covered by buildings by more than
five percent (5%).
      (2)   If the final plan is not in substantial compliance with the
approved preliminary plan, the revision shall require the same review and
public hearing process required for approval of the preliminary plan. All
applications for final site development plan and final plat approval shall be
accompanied with a $50 filing fee to defray the cost of review and
investigation.
   (B)   Contents of final plan. In addition to the requirements of the city
subdivision regulations for final plats, the following information shall be
submitted with the final plat on a separate final site development plan(s) at
the same scale as the final plat:
      (1)   Lot lines;
      (2)   The location and floor area of all existing and proposed buildings,
structures, ground signs and other improvements, including maximum height,
types of dwelling units, density per type and nonresidential structures,
including commercial facilities. All buildings shall be dimensioned with
distances shown from clear reference points;
      (3)   The location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated, reserved or used as common open spaces, public parks,
recreational areas, school sites and similar public or semipublic uses;
      (4)   The existing and proposed circulation system of arterial, collector
and local streets, including off street parking areas, service areas, loading
zones and major points of access to public rights-of-way. Notations of
ownership (public or private) shall be included where appropriate. Rights-of-
way and paved widths for each street shall be shown in accordance with the
minimum design standards of this article;
      (5)   The existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system, including
its interrelationships with the vehicular circulation system indicating the
proposed treatment of points of conflict;
      (6)   Preliminary architectural elevations (perspectives) sufficient to
relay the basic architectural intent of the proposed improvements;
      (7)   A landscape plan, including the extent and location of all plant
materials and other landscaped features. Plant material must be identified by
direct labeling plan or by a clearly understandable legend. Proposed treatment
of all ground surfaces must be clearly indicated, including, but not limited
to, paving, turf, gravel, grading and flower and shrub beds;
      (8)   The provisions for the ownership and maintenance of the common open
spaces as will reasonably ensure its continuity and conservation. Open space
may be dedicated to a private association or to the public; provided that a
dedication to the public shall not be accepted without the approval of the City
Council; and
      (9)   Such covenants as will reasonably ensure the continued compliance
with the approved master development plan and the final site development plan.
In order that the public interest may be protected, the City may be made
beneficiary of covenants pertaining to such matters as location of uses, height
of structures, landscaping, drainage, setbacks, screening, parking and access.
Such covenants shall provide that the City may enforce compliance therewith,
and shall further provide that amendment of such covenants shall require the
approval of the Planning Commission and the filing of record of a written
amendment to the covenants endorsed by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Planning Commission hearing and action.
      (1)   The Director of Community Development, upon the filing of an
application for final site development plan and final plat approval, shall set
the matter for public hearing in accordance with the regular procedures for
final plat filing as prescribed in the subdivision regulations. The Planning
Commission shall conduct the hearing and shall determine:
         (a)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are
consistent with the preliminary plans previously approved;
         (b)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat harmonize
with the existing and expected development of surrounding areas;
         (c)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are a
unified treatment of the development possibilities of the project site; and
         (d)   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are
consistent with the stated purposes and standards of this article.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall forward its recommendation, the
application and the final plans to the City Council for further hearing.
   (D)   Action by City Council. Upon receipt of the application, all final
plans and the Planning Commission recommendation, the City Council shall hold a
hearing, review the final plans and approve, disapprove, modify or return the
plans to the Planning Commission for further consideration. Upon approval of
the final site development plan and the final plat, the applicant may proceed
with the filing of the final plat.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-17) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10A-18 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   After the filing of an approved PUD subdivision plat, and notice thereof to
the Code Official, no building permit shall be issued on land within the PUD,
except in accordance with the approved plat. In a residential PUD, a building
permit for a freestanding or separate accessory commercial structure shall not
be issued until building permits have been issued for at least one-half of the
number of dwelling units on which the authorization of the accessory commercial
use is based.
(Prior Code, § 11-10A-18) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
ARTICLE B: HP HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS
§ 11-10B-1 PURPOSE OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS.
   The historic, architectural, cultural and aesthetic features of the City
represent some of its finest and most valuable resources and these resources
are the embodiment of the City’s heritage. Therefore, the purpose of the
Historic Preservation Commission and the Historic Preservation Districts, that
this Commission presides over, shall be as follows:
   (A)   To designate, preserve, protect, enhance and perpetuate those
structures and districts which reflect outstanding elements of the City’s
cultural, artistic, social, economic, political, architectural, historic or
other heritage;
   (B)   To foster civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the past;
   (C)   To stabilize or improve the aesthetic and economic vitality and values
of such structures and districts; and
   (D)   To promote the use of outstanding historic or architectural structures
or districts for education, stimulation and welfare of the people of the City.
§ 11-10B-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCHITECTURAL RESOURCES. Districts, structures, buildings, monuments, sites
and landscaping that possess local interest or artistic merit, or which are
particularly representative of their class or period, or represent achievements
in architecture, engineering technology, design or scientific research and
development.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The official document issued by the Planning
Administrator or Historic Preservation Commission approving any application for
permission to construct, erect, demolish, move, reconstruct, rehabilitate,
restore, stabilize or alter any structure within a historic district.
   COMMISSION. Historic Preservation Commission. The makeup, members, terms and
meetings is found in §§
10-3-1  through
10-3-5 .
   DESIGN GUIDELINES. Statements that are intended to be advisory in nature and
serve as a reference for all parties involved in the design review process.
GUIDELINES are indicated by statements containing the words “should” or
“encouraged”.
   GOOD REPAIR. A condition which not only meets minimum standards of health
and safety, but which also guarantees continued attractiveness, continued
structural soundness and continued usefulness.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A geographically definable area as designated by
ordinance of the City Council which may contain one or more significant
landmarks and which may have within its boundaries other properties or
structures, while not of such historic and/or architectural significance, to be
designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual
characteristics of the district.
   HISTORIC RESOURCES. Sites, districts, structures, buildings or monuments
that represent facets of history in the locality, state or nation; places where
significant historic or unusual events occurred; places associated with a
personality or group important to the past.
   LANDMARK. An individual structure, building, site or monument which
contributes to the historic, architectural or archaeological heritage of the
City and is worthy of rehabilitation, restoration and/or preservation.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Any work for which a building permit or any
other city permit or certificate is not required, and where the purpose of such
work is stabilization and, further, where such work will not noticeably change
the exterior appearance of the resource. Any work not satisfying all of the
above requirements shall not be considered ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. The
following examples shall not be considered ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: The
application of paint to previously unpainted brick or masonry; the construction
or enlargement of a driveway or parking area; the replacement of exterior doors
or windows, except for repair of broken glass or screens by use of like glass
or screens; and further, there are other types of construction or other work
that shall not be considered ordinary maintenance and repair.
   PRESERVATION. The adaptive use, conservation, protection, reconstruction,
restoration, rehabilitation or stabilization of sites, buildings, districts,
structures, monuments or other resources significant to the heritage of the
people of the City, and further:
      (1)   ADAPTIVE USE. The restrained alteration of a historic or
architectural resource to accommodate uses for which the resource was not
originally constructed, but in such a way so as to maintain the general
historic and architectural character;
      (2)   CONSERVATION. The sustained use and appearance of a resource
essentially in its existing state;
      (3)   PROTECTION. Maintaining the security and integrity as it exists
through the establishment of the mechanisms of this article;
      (4)   RECONSTRUCTION. The process of recreating or reproducing by new
construction all or part of the form and detail of a vanished resource as it
appeared at a specified period in time;
      (5)   REHABILITATION. The process of returning a historic or
architectural resource to the state of efficiency or soundness by repair or
alteration designed to encourage its continued use but without noticeably
changing the exterior appearance of the resource;
      (6)   RESTORATION. The process of accurately recovering all or a part of
the form and detail of a resource and its setting as it appeared at a
particular period of time by means of the removal of a later work and the
replacement or duplication of missing earlier work; and
      (7)   STABILIZATION. The process of applying measures designed to halt
deterioration and to establish the structural stability of an unsafe or
deteriorated resource while maintaining the essential form as it presently
exists without noticeably changing the exterior appearance of the resource.
   SIGNIFICANT CHARACTERISTICS OF HISTORIC OR ARCHITECTURAL RESOURCES. Those
characteristics which are important to, or expressive of, the historic,
architectural or cultural quality and integrity of the resource and its
setting, and which include, but are not limited to, building materials, detail,
height, mass, proportion, rhythm, scale, setback, setting, shape, street
accessories and workmanship.
      (1)   BUILDING MATERIALS. The physical components and the manner of their
utilization which create the aesthetic and structural appearance of the
resource, including, but not limited to, a consideration of the texture, nature
and style of the components and their combinations, such as brick, stone,
shingle, wood, concrete or stucco.
      (2)   DETAIL. The architectural aspects which, due to particular
treatment, draw attention to certain parts or features of a structure.
      (3)   HEIGHT. The vertical dimension of a given structure, building or
monument.
      (4)   PROPORTION. The relative physical sizes within and between
buildings and building components.
      (5)   RHYTHM. A regular pattern of shapes, including, but not limited to,
windows, doors, projections and heights, within a building, structure or
monument, or a group of the same.
      (6)   SCALE. The harmonious proportion of parts of a building, structure
or monument to one another and to the human figure.
      (7)   SETTING. The surrounding buildings, structures or monuments or
landscaping which provides visual aesthetic or auditory quality to the historic
or architectural resources.
      (8)   SHAPE. The physical configuration of structures or buildings or
monuments and their component parts, including, but not limited to, roofs,
doors, windows and facades.
      (9)   STREET ACCESSORIES. Those sidewalks or street fixtures which
provide cleanliness, comfort, directions or safety, and are compatible in
design to their surroundings, and include, but are not limited to, trash
receptacles, benches, advertising, displays, signs, lights, hydrants and
landscaping, including, but not limited to, trees, shrubbery and planters.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground. This includes, but is not limited to,
buildings, fences, walls, driveways, sidewalks, parking areas and signs.
§ 11-10B-3 AREA OF JURISDICTION.
   This article shall apply to all areas within the jurisdiction of the City,
except those areas which are zoned C-4 Central Business, in which case any
property owner located in a C-4 Central Business District may apply for
voluntary designation.
§ 11-10B-4 DISTRICT CREATED.
   There is hereby created the HP Historic Preservation Zoning District.
§ 11-10B-5 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DESCRIPTION.
   The HP Historic Preservation District and its regulations may be applied to
property located in any other zoning district, whether residential, commercial,
industrial or agricultural, in accordance with the provisions of this article.
This HP District is intended to be an overlay zoning district and the
regulations imposed by such district shall be in addition to the regulations of
the underlying zoning district applicable to the subject parcel or area. All
provisions of this article, including the definitions contained therein, shall
be applied to this district.
§ 11-10B-6 DISTRICT IDENTIFICATION.
   Tracts, buildings, sites or areas designated by the City Council as being
within the HP Historic Preservation District shall be identified on the
official zoning map of the City and in other official writings by the suffix
“HP”.
§ 11-10B-7 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The designating ordinance shall prescribe the significant exterior
architectural features; the types of construction, alteration, demolition and
removal, other than those requiring a building or demolition permit that should
be reviewed for appropriateness; the design guidelines for applying the
criteria for review of appropriateness; permitted uses; special uses; height
and area regulations; sign regulation; and parking regulations.
§ 11-10B-8 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent ordinary maintenance
or repair of any structure, except exterior change.
§ 11-10B-9 USES ADJACENT TO DISTRICT.
   Any use permitted in a residential, commercial, business or industrial
district while lying adjacent to, or across the street from, structures or
areas falling within a HP District shall be screened or designated, as
appropriate, so as to minimize its effect upon such structures or area. This
required screening or design is specifically made applicable to all properties
and uses whether the property or use preceded the HP designation or not.
§ 11-10B-10 ZONING DESIGNATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Review. The City may designate tracts and sites for inclusion within
the Historic Landmark District or a HP District in the same manner prescribed
for the designation of other zoning districts and subject to compliance with
this article; however, all designations of tracts and sites for inclusion
within a HP District shall be reviewed and considered by the HP Commission.
Such Commission shall forward its recommendation regarding a proposed
designation to the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission and thereafter to the
City Council.
   (B)   Proposal of designation. The initiation of a proposal of designation
may be made by the HP Commission, the City Council, the Metropolitan Area
Planning Commission or upon the application of any owner or owners of the
parcels to be designated or their authorized agents.
   (C)   Notice of consideration of designation.
      (1)   Notice of consideration of a district designation by the HP
Commission shall be the same as is required for consideration of the adoption
or amendment of zoning district boundaries by the Metropolitan Area Planning
Commission.
      (2)   As a part of such notice, the City shall notify the owner or owners
of record of affected properties by certified mail with return receipt
requested of the proposed designation, including a copy of the proposed
designation ordinance, a letter outlining the basis for the designation and the
obligations and restrictions which result from such designation.
   (D)   Testimony or documentary evidence. The HP Commission may solicit and
present expert testimony or documentary evidence regarding the historic,
architectural, archaeological or cultural importance of the property or
district proposed for designation.
   (E)   Plans and programs. It shall be the duty of the Planning
Administrator, or Administrator’s designee, to report to the HP Commission as
to the existence of such plans, programs or authorization which might have
application to the property proposed for designation, and further to offer a
professional opinion as to whether or not the proposed designation is in
accordance with such plans, programs or authorizations.
   (F)   Written findings of Commission. As part of every such proposed
designation, or proposed amendment of a designation, the HP Commission shall
provide in writing to the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission and to the City
Council the attributes of the area or property proposed for designation or the
degree to which such attributes relate, and comply with, the review criteria
set forth in this article. In addition, the Commission shall state in writing:
      (1)   Whether or not, in its review, designation would be in compliance
with prior actions of the City Council approving plans, programs or
authorizations for public trusts of the City;
      (2)   The proposed design guidelines for applying the criteria for review
of certificates of appropriateness to the districts proposed for designation;
and
      (3)   The recommendation as to appropriate permitted uses, uses permitted
on review, height and area regulations, sign regulations and parking
regulations necessary or appropriate to the preservation of the district
proposed for designation.
   (G)   Notice of approvals or disapprovals. The Planning Administrator shall
officially notify the HP Commission of the final determination of designation
requests at the next meeting of the HP Commission following the City Council
action.
   (H)   Amendment or repeal of designation. The HP Commission shall have the
authority to amend or repeal any designation of a site, structure, building,
district or monument in the same manner and according to the same procedures
provided herein for the original designation.
§ 11-10B-11 INTERIM CONTROL.
   (A)   Resolution authorizing alteration, removal or demolition. No building
permit shall be issue for alteration, construction, demolition or removal of
any property or structure within a nominated historic district from the date of
the meeting of the HP Commission at which an application form is first
presented until its final disposition by the City Council unless such
alteration, removal or demolition is authorized by formal resolution of the
City Council as necessary for public health, welfare or safety. In no event
shall the delay be for more than 180 days, except as provided in §
11-10B-14 .
   (B)   District designation; criteria. A site, structure, building, district
or monument may be designated for preservation as a landmark or historic
district and thus may be included within the Historic Preservation District if
it possesses the following attributes within the categories below.
      (1)   Historic, cultural category.
         (a)   It has significant character, interest or value as part of the
development, heritage or cultural characteristics of the locality, state or
nation; or is associated with the life of a personality significant to the
past.
         (b)   It is the site of a historic event with a significant effect
upon the development, heritage or cultural characteristics of the locality,
state or nation.
         (c)   It exemplifies a facet of the cultural, political, economic,
social or historic heritage of the community.
      (2)   Architectural, engineering category.
         (a)   It depicts accurately an era of history characterized by a
distinctive architectural style.
         (b)   It embodies those distinguished characteristics of an
architectural type or engineering specimen.
         (c)   It is the work of a designer architect or contractor whose
individual work has influenced the development of the locality, state or
nation.
         (d)   It contains elements of design, detail, materials or
craftsmanship which represents a style unique to the past.
         (e)   It is a part of or related to a square, park or other
distinctive area and thus, should be developed and preserved according to a
plan based on a historic, cultural or architectural motif.
         (f)   It represents an established and familiar visual feature of the
neighborhood, community or skyline owing to its unique location or singular
physical characteristics.
      (3)   Archaeological category.
         (a)   It has yielded, based upon physical evidence, information
important to the history or prehistory of the area.
         (b)   It is part of, or related to, a distinctive geographical area
which should be developed or preserved according to a plan based on cultural,
historic or architectural motif.
§ 1-10B-12 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Required in certain instances. A certificate of appropriateness shall
be required before the commencement of work upon any structure or site located
within a HP District:
      (1)   Whenever such work requires a building permit;
      (2)   Whenever such work includes the application of paint to a
previously unpainted brick or masonry exterior surface of the construction or
enlargement of a driveway or parking area; and/or
      (3)   Whenever such work includes the construction, erection, moving,
demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation, restoration, stabilization or
alteration of the exterior of any structure or site, except when such work
satisfies all the requirements for “ordinary maintenance and repair” as defined
in this article.
   (B)   Application for building permit. No building permit shall issue for
any structure or site located within a HP District until the application for
such permit has been reviewed by the HP Commission and a certificate of
appropriateness has been approved.
   (C)   Copies of plans and specifications. When applying for such a permit,
the applicant shall furnish two copies of all detailed plans, elevations,
perspectives and specifications. The Planning Administrator shall forward to
the HP Commission such application for a building permit within five days of
receipt thereof. Any applicant may request a meeting with the HP Commission
before submitting an application and may consult with the HP Commission during
the review of the permit application.
   (D)   Approve or disapprove certificate. Upon review of the application, the
HP Commission shall determine whether the proposed work is of a nature which
will adversely affect any historic or architectural resource and whether such
work is appropriate and consistent with the spirit and intent of this article.
The HP Commission shall apply the criteria established by this article and
based thereon shall approve or disapprove such certificate of appropriateness.
If the Commission disapproves a certificate of appropriateness, no permit shall
be issued and the applicant shall not proceed with the proposed work.
   (E)   Guidelines to supplement regulations. The HP Commission shall develop
such guidelines as it may find necessary to supplement the provisions of this
article and to inform owners, residents and the general public of those
techniques which are considered most proper for undertaking work relating to
historic and architectural resources. The Commission shall have the opportunity
to advise the City Council concerning provisions in the building, electrical,
plumbing, heat and air and housing codes and other codes which affect
preservation work.
   (F)   New construction; reasons for disapproval.
      (1)   It is not the intent of this article to limit new construction to
any one period or architectural style, but to preserve the integrity of the
historic and architectural resources and to ensure the compatibility of new
work constructed in the vicinity.
      (2)   In the case of the disapproval of plans by the HP Commission, it
shall state in writing the reasons for such disapproval and it may include
suggestions for the applicant to consider that might secure the subsequent
approval of the HP Commission.
   (G)   Archaeological resources. With regard to the development of a property
containing a designated archaeological resource, a certificate of
appropriateness shall be required prior to the issuance of the permit for which
the applicant has applied; and further, the following requirements shall be
satisfied.
      (1)   Archaeological resources shall be protected from inappropriate or
improper digging by demonstration by the applicant that the appropriate permits
and standards are met as set out by the Oklahoma Historical Society.
      (2)   Any discovered materials shall be properly recorded, reported,
stored or exhibited according to the standards set by the Oklahoma Historical
Society.
      (3)   All development affecting the designated archaeological resource
shall provide for the permanent preservation of the resource or provide for the
completion of the necessary work as recommended by the qualified archaeologist.
      (4)   Prior to the hearing by the HP Commission for issuance of the
certificate of appropriateness, the applicant or the Commission shall cause to
have presented the comments and recommendations of a qualified archaeologist
with respect to the resource under consideration and the application which
would affect it.
   (H)   Review by Commission; criteria.
      (1)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness subject
to certain conditions. Work performed pursuant to the issuance of a certificate
of appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of such certificate, if
any. It shall be the duty of the Planning Administrator and the Code
Enforcement Department to inspect any work performed pursuant to a certificate
of appropriateness to assure such compliance.
      (2)   In the event that such work is not in compliance, the Planning
Administrator shall issue a stop work order. The HP Commission may request by
resolution that the Planning Administrator inspect the work and issue a stop
work order.
      (3)   The Commission shall be guided by the following review criteria:
         (a)   The purpose and intent of this article;
         (b)   The degree to which the proposed work may destroy or alter all
or part of a resource;
         (c)   The degree to which the proposed work would serve to isolate the
resource from its historic or architectural surroundings, or would introduce
visual, audible, vibratory or polluting elements that are out of character with
the resources and its setting, or that adversely affect the physical integrity
of the resource;
         (d)   The compatibility of the building materials with the aesthetic
and structural appearance of the resource, including, but not limited to, the
consideration of texture, style, color or the components and their combinations
of elements such as brick, stone, concrete, shingle, wood or stucco; and
         (e)   The compatibility of the proposed design to the significant
characteristics of the resource, including, but not limited to, a consideration
of a harmony of materials, details, height, mass, proportion, rhythm, scale,
setback, shape, street accessories and workmanship.
   (I)   Authority of Planning Administrator. The HP Commission, at its
discretion, may authorize the Planning Administrator to administer the
provisions of this section. Any decision by the Planning Administrator
regarding the review and approval of a certificate of appropriateness may be
appealed to the HP Commission. The Planning Administrator may approve a
certificate of appropriateness for the following areas without prior approval
from the HP Commission:
      (1)   Any changes to exterior paint when the applicant is using a paint
color from a designated historic palette from any major paint company. If it is
the intention of the applicant to paint masonry material, the application must
be taken to the HP Commission;
      (2)   Any changes to a fence when the applicant is applying for a wrought
iron, picket or brick fence. If a solid wood or stockade fence is applied for,
there must be a decorative feature proposed to be included in the design.
Chainlink fencing is not allowed within a historic district;
      (3)   Any replacement of the driveway that is not changing the current
size or location of the current driveway;
      (4)   Any changes to the roof or shingles when the same color and style
of shingle is being used to replace the current shingles; and
      (5)   Any changes to any nonhistoric features of the home that are not
visible from the street as long as there is not a greater impact on the house
or neighborhood.
§ 11-10B-13 CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   (A)   Application. Application on forms prescribed by the Commission for a
certificate of economic hardship may be made by the owner or his agent who has
been denied a certificate of appropriateness for any work.
   (B)   General requirements and procedures. The Commission may require that
the applicant for a certificate of economic hardship make submissions
concerning any or all the following information before it makes a determination
on the application:
      (1)   An estimate of the cost of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition or removal, and estimate of any additional cost that would be
incurred to comply with the recommendations of the Commission for changes
necessary for the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness;
      (2)   A report from a licensed engineer or architect with experience in
rehabilitation as to the structural soundness of any structures on the property
and their suitability for rehabilitation;
      (3)   The estimated market value of the property in its current
condition; after completion of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition or removal; after any changes recommended by the Historic
Preservation Commission and, in the case of a proposed demolition, after
renovation of the existing property for continued use;
      (4)   In the case of a proposed demolition, an estimate from an
architect, developer, real estate consultant, appraiser or other real estate
professional experienced in rehabilitation as to the economic feasibility or
rehabilitation or reuse of the existing structure on the property;
      (5)   Amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the party
from whom purchased, including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner of record or applicant and the person from whom the property
was purchased, and any terms of financing between the seller and buyer;
      (6)   If the property is income producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two years; itemized operating and maintenance
expenses for the previous two years; and depreciation deduction and annual cash
flow before and after debt service, if any, during the same period;
      (7)   Remaining balance on any mortgage or other financing secured by the
property and annual debt service, if any, for the previous two years;
      (8)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two years by the owner
or applicant in connection with the purchase, financing or ownership of the
property;
      (9)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous two years; and
      (10)   Assessed values of the property according to the two most recent
assessments.
   (C)   Public hearing required. After the application for certificate of
economic hardship has been submitted, the Commission shall hold a public
hearing at which any person may testify concerning economic hardship.
   (D)   Determination of economic hardship. The Commission shall review all
the evidence and information required of any applicant for a certificate of
economic hardship and make a determination within 45 days of receipt of the
application, whether the denial of a certificate of appropriateness has
deprived, or will deprive, the owner of the property of reasonable use of, or
economic return on, the property. If the Commission disapproves such a
certificate of economic hardship, the applicant shall proceed with work only
when issued a certificate of appropriateness as provided in §
11-10B-12 .
§ 11-10B-14 DEMOLITION APPROVAL; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Approval; certification required. No structure or site within any HP
District shall be demolished or removed unless such demolition shall be
approved by the HP Commission and a certificate of appropriateness for such
demolition is granted.
   (B)   Procedure and postponement orders.
      (1)   The HP Commission shall hold a public hearing for the purpose of
considering a certificate of appropriateness for demolition or removal. After
such hearing, the Commission may approve the certificate of appropriateness
thereby authorizing the demolition or the Commission may deny the certificate
of appropriateness and postpone the demolition or removal for a period not to
exceed 180 days.
      (2)   At the conclusion of such period of postponement as specified, the
Commission, within 45 days thereafter, shall hold a second public hearing for
the purpose of considering whether or not the Commission should recommend to
the City Council that an additional postponement of demolition be ordered.
      (3)   In the event the HP Commission should make such recommendation of
additional postponement to the City Council, the City Council shall hold a
public hearing for the purpose of considering an additional postponement of
demolition.
      (4)   At such public hearing, the City Council may enter an order
approving the demolition or may enter an order postponing demolition for an
additional period not to exceed 120 days from the date of such order. At the
conclusion of this final period of postponement, the Planning Administrator
shall issue a permit approving the demolition.
   (C)   Criteria for review of demolition. The HP Commission and the City
Council shall be guided by the following criteria in considering certificates
of appropriateness and authorizations for demolition of structures or sites
within a HP District:
      (1)   The purposes and intent of this article;
      (2)   The degree to which the proposed removal of the historic resources
would serve to destroy the integrity and continuity of the Historic
Preservation District of which it is a part;
      (3)   The nature of the resource as a representative type or style of
architecture, socioeconomic development, historic association or other element
of the original designation criteria applicable to such structure or site;
      (4)   The condition of the resource from the standpoint of structural
integrity and the extent of work necessary to stabilize the structure; and
      (5)   The alternatives available to the demolition applicant, including:
         (a)   Donation of the subject structure or site to a public or
benevolent agency;
         (b)   Donation of a part of the value of the subject structure or site
to a public or benevolent agency, including the conveyance of development
rights and facade easements;
         (c)   The possibility of sale of the structure or site, or any part
thereof, to a prospective purchaser capable of preserving such structure or
site;
         (d)   The potential of such structure or site for renovation and its
potential for continuing use;
         (e)   The potential of the subject structure or site for rezoning in
an effort to render such property more compatible with the physical potential
of the structure; and
         (f)   The ability of the subject structure or site to produce a
reasonable economic return on investment of its owner; provided, however, that
it is specifically intended that this factor shall not have exclusive control
and effect, but shall be considered along with all other criteria contained in
this article.
§ 11-10B-15 MINIMUM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Minimum requirements; file resolution. Designated landmarks, or
structures, buildings or monuments within HP Districts shall be maintained to
meet the minimum requirements of codes and ordinances governing the public
health, safety and welfare. The Commission, on its own initiative, may file a
resolution with the appropriate codes to require correction of defects or
initiation of repairs.
   (B)   Repair; landscaping. All persons in charge of a landmark, or
structure, building or monument within a HP District shall keep in good repair
all of the exterior portions of such resources, including appropriate
landscaping.
   (C)   Parking certain vehicles on private property. It shall be unlawful and
an offense for any person to park any “private passenger vehicle”, “commercial
vehicle” or “recreational vehicle”, as defined in §
11-14-8 A, in the front yard or exterior side yard of any residence within a HP
District, unless such vehicle is parked within a designated parking area such
as a garage, carport or driveway.
§ 11-10B-16 COMMISSION REVIEW; APPEAL.
   (A)   Review. All matters regarding property or sites situated within a HP
District shall be reviewed and considered by the Commission prior to final
action by the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, the Board of Adjustment,
or the City Council.
   (B)   Right to appeal. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the HP
Commission may appeal such decision to the City Council. Such appeal shall be
made in writing and filed with the Planning Administrator within seven days of
the date of the decision. The City Council may affirm, overrule or modify the
decision of the HP Commission. The City Council shall be guided by the review
criteria specified in §§
11-10B-11  and
11-10B-13 .
§ 11-10B-17 TAXES.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed as reason for an increased
valuation of property for purposes of ad valorem taxation because of historic
designation.
§ 11-10B-18 PROPERTY OWNED BY PUBLIC AGENCIES.
   The requirements, provisions and purposes of this article shall apply to all
property owned by the City or any other public agency; provided, however,
designation pursuant to this article shall not affect the validity of prior
actions of the City Council approving plans, programs or authorizations for
public trusts without an express amendment of such plan, program or authority.
§ 11-10B-19 KENWOOD AND WAVERLEY HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Kenwood and Waverley Historic District
designations are intended to promote the health, safety, economic, cultural and
general welfare of the public by encouraging the conservation and enhancement
of the Kenwood Addition and Waverley Addition. The purposes of the district
designations are:
      (1)   To safeguard their heritage by preserving these districts which
reflect elements of cultural, social, economic, political and architectural
history;
      (2)   To stabilize and improve property values through protective zoning
and land use policies; and
      (3)   To foster civic improvement through private property improvement
design guidelines.
   (B)   District designations.
      (1)   Boundaries.
         (a)   Boundaries of the Kenwood Historic District shall include the
south half of Blocks 13, 14, 15 and all of Blocks 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 41,
43, Lots 5 through 24, Block 29 and Lot 1, Block 42, inclusive, Kenwood
Addition to the City as shown by the recorded plat thereof, and any replats
which have been filed of record.
         (b)   The boundaries of the Waverley Historic District shall include
the south half of Blocks 5 and 6 and all of Blocks 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, Waverley
Addition; the south half of Block 2 and all of Blocks 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
Waverley 2nd Addition; the south half of Blocks 3 and 4 and all of Blocks 5, 6,
7, 8, Waverley 3rd Addition; Lots 1 through 8, Block 3, Lots l through 6, Block
4, Lots 1 through 6, Block 5, Lots 1 through 6, Block 6, Lots 1 through 6,
Block 7, Lots 1 through 6, Block 8, Waverley 4th Addition to the City, as shown
on the recorded plat thereof, and any replats which have been filed of record.
      (2)   Overlay zoning districts established.
         (a)   The Kenwood Historic District and Waverley Historic District
shall each be an overlay zoning district. The underlying zoning on the property
designated by the regular zoning district regulations of this title shall
continue to regulate the use and development of land unless expressly modified
by this article.
         (b)   Areas, tracts or sites within these districts shall henceforth
be identified on the official zoning map and in other official writings by the
attachment of the suffix “HP” for the underlying zoning district
classification.
         (c)   Regulations established in this article shall take precedence
over all the regulations in this title whether they are more or less
restrictive.
      (3)   Historic districts. The Kenwood and Waverley Historic Districts
shall be those areas shown and bounded as such on the official zoning map of
the City, entitled “Kenwood Historic District” and “Waverley Historic District”
each of which is incorporated by reference herein as if fully set out.
   (C)   Architectural and historic significance of each district.
      (1)   The City finds and designates the Kenwood Historic District due to
its cultural, economic and architectural history.
      (2)   In particular, the Kenwood Historic District, platted in 1894,
contains some of the finest examples of prairie and Victorian cottage
architectural styles. The district contains certain residential structures
designed by the best architects in the area and which served as homes for
prominent early day citizens. The original architectural and structural
integrity of many of the residences still exists.
      (3)   The City finds and designates the Waverley Historic District due to
its cultural, economic and architectural history. In particular, the Waverley
Historic District, platted in 1902 and 1907, contains fine examples of a
variety of architectural styles including bungalows, colonial revival, medieval
period revival, Spanish, prairie and neoclassical styles. The district contains
certain residential structures designed by the best architects in the area and
which served as homes for prominent early day citizens. The original
architectural and structural integrity of many residences still exists.
   (D)   Regulation of structures. No exterior of any structure or site shall
be regulated, erected, moved, demolished, reconstructed, rehabilitated,
restored, stabilized or altered within the Kenwood and Waverley Historic
Districts unless such action complies with the requirements of this section.
      (1)   Land use regulations. The zoning provided in Ordinances 86-13 and
86-17 is in accordance with either the current use being made of the property
or the original intended use of the property, whichever is more consistent with
the overall character of the district. The primary use of the Kenwood and
Waverley Historic Districts is single-family residential and the City shall
strive to preserve and protect this character. In certain instances there may
be structures deteriorated to the extent that they cannot be feasibly used as
originally intended. If adaptive reuse is not allowed in these cases, the only
alternative is “nonuse” which results in increased deterioration or pressure
for demolition. If an owner submits substantial evidence indicating that a last
resort to saving the structure is an alternative use, the Historic Preservation
Commission may recommend to the Zoning Board of Adjustment that a use variance
be granted. A use variance may be permitted when the resulting conversion of
the structure to an alternative use would not compromise the historic, cultural
or architectural integrity of the structure or the district. If a use variance
is granted, it shall be for the particular property involved and shall be for
that use only. Should the use discontinue for a period of 90 days, such
discontinuance shall establish a presumption of intent to abandon, and then the
property may only be used in accordance with the zoning of the property.
      (2)   Design guidelines.
         (a)   New construction. The design guidelines for new construction in
the Kenwood and Waverley Historic Districts are applicable to the following
types of activity:
            1.   Types of activity:
               a.   Construction of a new building or auxiliary structure;
               b.   Any addition to or alteration of an existing structure
which increases the square footage in that structure or otherwise alters its
size, height, contour or outline;
               c.   Addition or removal of one or more stories; or
               d.   Alteration of rooflines.
            2.   Guidelines for new construction:
               a.   Intent; technical assistance. These guidelines are not
intended to discourage contemporary design. Imitation and duplication of
architecturally significant details compromises the integrity of both the old
and the new. Nevertheless, the guidelines are adopted in order to integrate new
construction with existing structures in such a way that they harmonize with
the surrounding environment of the Historic District. Technical assistance is
available to the public through the City’s Historic Preservation Commission
when specific projects are affected by new construction guidelines.
               b.   Specific guidelines.
                  i.   The height of new buildings or additions to existing
structures must be no greater than the cornice height of the highest
contributing structure within the same block on the same side of the street.
                  ii.   The building setbacks and rhythm of spacing of
buildings along the same side of a street within a block must be maintained
when new construction is proposed.
                  iii.   The directional expression and sense of entry of
buildings along the street facade must be maintained when new construction is
proposed. Further, garages should be set back behind the house if that is the
prevailing pattern in the area.
                  iv.   The materials, colors and textures of new construction
must be consistent and compatible with the existing contributing structures
within the same block on the same side of the street.
                  v.   The scale (the proportion between two sets of
dimensions) of new construction must be consistent and compatible with the
existing contributing structures within the same block on the same side of the
street.
                  vi.   New construction within a historic district shall be
consistent and compatible with existing and prevailing elements of contributing
structures in the block with regard to all of the following design elements:
                     (A)   Rhythm of solids and voids on the front facade,
which is the rhythm of masses to openings;
                     (B)   Rhythm and proportion of window and door openings,
including the width and height relationships of windows and doors;
                     (C)   Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections;
                     (D)   Relationship of architectural details, including
shutters;
                     (E)   Relationship of ground cover and landscaping,
primarily mass and continuity;
                     (F)   Relationship of roof shapes; i.e., gable, hip or
mansard; and
                     (G)   Walls of continuity which involves the physical
ingredients which form continuous walls of enclosure along the streets,
including walls, facades, fences, trees or a combination of these.
               c.   Waiver. Some sites may have their own unique problems and
may require special consideration. A strict interpretation of these guidelines
may be waived on a case by case and item by item basis by the HP Commission.
         (b)   Rehabilitation. The design guidelines for rehabilitation in the
Kenwood and Waverley Historic Districts are as follows:
            1.   Guidelines for rehabilitation.
               a.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a
compatible use for a property which requires minimal alteration of the
building, structure or site and its environment, or to use a property for its
originally intended purpose.
               b.   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a
building, structure or site and its environment shall not be destroyed. The
removal or alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectural
features should be avoided when possible.
               c.   All buildings, structures and sites shall be recognized as
products of their own time. Alterations that have no historic basis and which
seek to create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged.
               d.   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time
are evidence of the history and development of a building, structure or site
and its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own
right, and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
               e.   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled
craftsmanship which characterize a building, structure or site shall be treated
with sensitivity.
               f.   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired
rather than replaced wherever possible. In the event replacement is necessary,
the new material should match the material being replaced in composition,
design, color, texture and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of
missing architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of
features, substantiated by historic, physical or pictorial evidence rather than
on conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other buildings or structures.
               g.   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with
the gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage the historic building materials shall not be permitted.
               h.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and
preserve archaeological resources affected by, or adjacent to, any project.
               i.   Contemporary design for alterations and additions to
existing properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and
additions do not destroy significant historic, architectural or cultural
material, and such design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material
and character of the property, neighborhood or environment.
               j.   Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to
structures shall be done in such a manner that if such additions or alterations
were to be removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the
structure would be unimpaired.
            2.   Interpretation. The Secretary of the Interior has prepared
guidelines for rehabilitating historic buildings. The City will use these
guidelines as a reference when interpreting the guidelines listed above.
         (c)   Technological advancements. The design guidelines for
technological advancements relate to certain accessory appurtenances to
development which may compromise the integrity of the Kenwood and Waverley
Historic Districts. For this reason, the following standards shall be used when
addressing technological advancements that have occurred since the district was
developed. Any technological advancements visible from the street facade
require a certificate of appropriateness prior to installation. Examples of
same technological advancements are as follows.
            1.   Synthetic siding.
               a.   Synthetic clapboard siding may be permitted in the
construction of a new building if the dimensions, colors and textures match
that of the contributing structures on the same block.
               b.   Synthetic siding may be permitted when proposed for any
addition to, or alteration of, an existing structure if such siding is
consistent with the dimensions, colors and textures of the contributing
structures on the same block.
            2.   Satellite dishes. Satellite dishes shall be located in the
rear yard and screened so that they are not visible from any street.
            3.   Solar panels and skylights. Solar panels and skylights are
permitted if they are constructed parallel to, and project no more than eight
inches from, the surface of the roof. Solar panels shall not be visible from
any street.
            4.   Fences. Walls of continuity (subsection (D)(2)(a)2.b.vi. above
under design guidelines for new construction) addresses this concern. However,
it should be emphasized that fence materials should enhance rather than detract
from the property they protect. The Commission suggests wrought iron, picket
fencing or brick walls to add to the historic spirit of the neighborhood.
Chainlink fences are prohibited unless properly screened by foliage.
            5.   Window air conditioners. Window air conditioners should not be
placed in the front facade. Any remote or exterior mechanical equipment should
be placed behind the front yard setback and be screened so that they are not
visible from any street.
            6.   Storm windows and doors. Storm windows and doors are not
permitted in the construction of a new building. Storm doors and windows may be
permitted on the exterior of existing contributing structures if such doors or
windows are consistent with the original structural design.
      (3)   Certificates of appropriateness.
         (a)   Required; prerequisite. A certificate of appropriateness is
required in the following instances before the commencement of work upon any
structure or site located within the historic district:
            1.   Whenever such work requires a building permit issued by the
City. No building permit shall be issued by the Code Official for any structure
or site located within a Historic District until the application for such
permit has been reviewed by the Historic Preservation Commission and a
certificate of appropriateness is approved by the Commission;
            2.   Whenever such work includes the application of paint to
previously unpainted brick or masonry exterior surface or the construction or
enlargement of a driveway or parking area; and
            3.   Whenever such work includes the construction, erection,
moving, demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation, restoration, stabilization
or alteration of the exterior of any structure or site, or the installation of
a technological advancement, except when such work satisfies all the
requirements for ordinary maintenance and repair.
         (b)   Certificate of appropriateness application procedure.
            1.   When applying for such certificate, the applicant must furnish
two copies of all detailed plans, elevations, perspectives and specifications,
and the Planning Administrator shall forward to the Commission such application
for a certificate within five days of receipt thereof. Any applicant may
request a meeting with the Commission before submitting an application and may
consult with the Commission during the review of the application.
            2.   Upon review of the application, the Commission will determine
whether the proposed work is of a nature which will adversely affect any
historic or architectural resource and whether such work is appropriate and
consistent with the spirit and intent of the designating ordinance. The
Commission will apply the criteria listed below and, based thereon, shall
approve or disapprove the certificate of appropriateness. If the Commission
disapproves the certificate of appropriateness, no permit will be issued and
work cannot proceed.
         (c)   Certificate review procedure. The Historic Preservation
Commission will use the following criteria when reviewing the application. The
Commission shall determine whether or not the application complies with:
            1.   The purpose and intent of the designation ordinance;
            2.   The degree to which the proposed work may destroy or alter all
or part of a resource;
            3.   The degree to which the proposed work would serve to isolate
the resource from its historic or architectural surroundings or would introduce
visual, audible, vibratory or polluting elements that are out of character with
the resource and its setting, or that adversely affect the physical integrity
of the resource;
            4.   The compatibility of the building materials with the aesthetic
and structural appearance of the resource, including, but not limited to, the
consideration of texture, style, color or the components and their combinations
of elements such as brick, stone, concrete, shingle, wood or stucco; and
            5.   The compatibility of the proposed design to the significant
characteristics of the resource, including, but not limited to, the
consideration of a harmony of materials, details, height, mass, proportion,
rhythm, scale, setback, shape, street, accessories and workmanship.
ARTICLE C: ETS ENID TOWN SQUARE OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 11-10C-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This overlay district encompasses the core of the central business district
and serves as the primary shopping and employment area for the community and
surrounding area. The district is intended to provide for general business uses
such as retailing of all kinds, professional offices, financial institutions,
residential facilities and limited wholesaling. Land uses deemed as
incompatible to the desired commercial mix are prohibited uses. The underlying
zoning provisions shall prevail, unless the provisions contained in this
article are more restrictive, in which case, the overlay district shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 11-10C-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10C-2 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The creation of the Enid Town Square Overlay District is intended to promote
the historical, architectural, cultural, economic and aesthetic features of the
Central Business District. Therefore, it is hereby declared that the purposes
of this district shall be as follows:
   (A)   To preserve, protect, enhance and perpetuate those structures which
reflect the outstanding elements of the City’s cultural, artistic, social,
economic, political, architectural and historic heritage;
   (B)   To stabilize and improve the aesthetic and economic vitality and
values of such structures;
   (C)   To sustain the character and integrity of the Central Business
District by focusing special attention on the maintenance of the physical
environment;
   (D)   To prevent economic obsolescence and to promote reinvestment by
fostering stable property values; and
   (E)   To foster the harmonious and orderly growth, development and
redevelopment of the Central Business District.
(Prior Code, § 11-10C-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10C-3 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The ENID TOWN SQUARE OVERLAY DISTRICT shall be defined as that portion of
the Central Business District bounded by Elm Street on the north, the Union
Pacific railroad tracks on the east, Adams Street on the west from Elm Street
to Cherokee Avenue, Washington Street on the west from Cherokee Avenue to the
half-block south of Garriott Road and a line contiguous with the centerline of
the east-west alley in Block 4, Southside Addition, extending from Washington
Street east to the UP railroad tracks.
(Prior Code, § 11-10C-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10C-4 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings located in the Enid Town Square
District shall be used only for the following uses: Any use permitted in the C-
3 General Commercial District.
   (B)   Uses permitted by review. The following uses may be permitted after
review in accordance with §
11-14-1 :
      (1)   Light manufacturing;
      (2)   Warehousing, general; and
      (3)   Any other similar business or service, which is consistent with the
general description of the district, and meets the conditions for authorization
as specified in §
11-14-1.
(Prior Code, § 11-10C-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-10C-5 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses shall be prohibited in the Enid Town Square Overlay
District:
   (A)   “Adult entertainment uses”, as defined in §
11-1-7;
   (B)   Alcohol and drug treatment centers, residential;
   (C)   Bingo parlors;
   (D)   Blood banks;
   (E)   Detention centers, forced;
   (F)   Mental health facilities, transitional;
   (G)   Metal buildings, either premanufactured or site built, unless the
exterior of such building is constructed of a masonry or similar material that
is compatible with the character and integrity of the architectural style
prevalent in the overlay district. This determination shall be made by the Code
Official;
   (H)   Mobile home sales and service;
   (I)   Pari-mutuel betting, either as a primary use or an accessory use;
   (J)   Shelters, emergency, domestic violence, dependent and neglected
children; and
   (K)   Medical marijuana dispensary, commercial grower or processor.
(Prior Code, § 11-10C-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 2023-09, passed
7-6-2023)
ARTICLE D: AED AIRFIELD ENVIRONS OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 11-10D-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The Airfield Environs Overlay District is an overlay zone established to
accommodate a range of land uses that are compatible with airfield accident
hazard and noise exposure areas and to prohibit incompatible uses that are
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare in the airfield environs.
The Airfield Environs Overlay District supplements the regulations of the
underlying zoning districts. The regulations of the Airfield Environs Overlay
District prevail if there is a conflict.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-1) (Ord. 2006-27, passed 12-5-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 43-101.1
§ 11-10D-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENT POTENTIAL ZONE (APZ)
      (1)   APZ I. Is described as being 3,000 feet wide (1,500 feet to each
side of the runway centerline) and extending outward from the end of the CZ an
additional 5,000 feet. This zone has a reduced accident potential.
      (2)   APZ II. Is described as being 3,000 feet wide (1,500 feet to each
side of the runway centerline) and extending outward from the end of the APZ I
an additional 7,000 feet. This zone has a further reduced, although still
significant, accident potential.
   AIRFIELD. Vance Air Force Base, Enid, Oklahoma.
   AIRFIELD ENVIRONS OVERLAY DISTRICT. The area within the Vance Air Force Base
vicinity, which is impacted by the combined effects of aircraft noise and
accident potential and therefore, must be protected from the noise and safety
hazards associated with aircraft operations.
   AIRSPACE CONTROL SURFACES PLAN. The standards which determine the approach
and departure slopes and imaginary surfaces surrounding Vance AFB. The
standards are specified in 14 C.F.R. (Code of Federal Regulations) part 77.21,
chapter 1, and are hereby adopted by reference. 14 C.F.R. § 77.21 (military
airport imaginary surfaces) reads as follows:
 
   (A)   Related to airport reference points. These surfaces apply to all military
airports. For the purposes of this section a military airport is any airport operated by
an armed force of the United States.
 
      (1)   Inner horizontal surface. A plane is oval in shape at a height of 150 feet
above the established airfield elevation. The plane is constructed by scribing an arc
with a radius of 7,500 feet about the centerline at the end of each runway and
interconnecting these arcs with tangents.
 
      (2)   Conical surface. A surface extending from the periphery of the inner
horizontal surface outward and upward at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal distance of
7,000 feet to a height of 500 feet above the established airfield elevation.
 
      (3)   Outer horizontal surface. A plane, located 500 feet above the established
airfield elevation, extending outward from the outer periphery of the conical surface
for a horizontal distance of 30,000 feet.
 
   (B)   Related to runways. These surfaces apply to all military airports.
 
      (1)   Primary surface. A surface located on the ground or water longitudinally
centered on each runway with the same length as the runway. The width of the primary
surface for runways is 2,000 feet. However, at established bases where substantial
construction has taken place in accordance with a previous lateral clearance criteria,
the 2,000-foot width may be reduced to the former criteria.
 
      (2)   Clear zone surface. A surface located on the ground or water at each end of
the primary surface, with a length of 1,000 feet and the same width as the primary
surface.
 
      (3)   Approach clearance surface. An inclined plane, symmetrical about the runway
centerline extended, beginning 200 feet beyond each end of the primary surface at the
centerline elevation of the runway end and extending for 50,000 feet. The slope of the
approach clearance surface is 50 to 1 along the runway centerline extended until it
reaches an elevation of 500 feet above the established airport elevation. It then
continues horizontally at this elevation to a point 50,000 feet from the point of
beginning. The width of this surface at the runway end is the same as the primary
surface, it flares uniformly, and the width at 50,000 is 16,000 feet.
 
      (4)   Transitional surfaces. These surfaces connect the primary surfaces, the
first 200 feet of the clear zone surfaces, and the approach clearance surfaces to the
inner horizontal surface, conical surface, outer horizontal surface or other
transitional surfaces. The slope of the transitional surface is 7 to 1 outward and
upward at right angles to the runway centerline.
 
   CLEAR ZONE (CZ). Two thousand feet wide (1,000 feet to each side of the
runway centerline) and extending outward from the end of all active runway
surfaces. The CZ starts at the end of the runway and extends outward 3,000
feet. This zone has the highest accident potential.
   CLEAR ZONE, ACCIDENT POTENTIAL ZONES AND NOISE ZONES MAP. The official map
adopted by reference with this title, designating clear zones, accident
potential zones and noise zones per March 2003, Air Installation Compatible Use
Zone (AICUZ) Study.
   DECIBEL (dB). The physical unit commonly used to describe noise levels; the
unit of level such as the sound pressure level.
   NOISE ZONES (NZ). Areas subject to a degree of exterior noise created by
airfield operations. There are four NZs as follows:
      (1)   65<70 dB;
      (2)   70<75 dB;
      (3)   75<80 dB; and
      (4)   80+ dB.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any structure or use of land which is lawfully in
existence at the time a regulation is prescribed in an ordinance or an
amendment thereto becomes effective.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A set of zoning requirements that are imposed in addition
to those of the underlying district.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission lines.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-2) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-3 AIRFIELD ENVIRONS SUBDISTRICTS.
   Within the Airfield Environs Overlay District, there are areas affected
similarly by the combined characteristics of noise, flight tracks, altitude and
accident potential. These areas are designated as Clear Zones (CZs), Accident
Potential Zones (APZs) and Noise Zones (NZs). These areas are consistent with
Air Force and local community land use guidelines. These areas are subdistricts
within the Overlay District.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-3) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-4 CLEAR ZONE (CZ).
   This subdistrict is the most severely impacted by the operations of the
adjacent airfield, which possesses a significant risk factor for aircraft
accidents. The placement of structures is not compatible and is therefore
prohibited. CZ also encompasses portions of Noise Zones Ldn 75<80 and 80+.
Therefore, noise sensitive uses are not compatible without the incorporation of
extensive noise attenuation construction techniques. Exposure to outside noise
could be a health hazard to persons and animals. It is intended that the
principal use of land shall remain for agriculture production of crops and
other miscellaneous agriculture services. Residential uses are not permitted,
unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13.
   (A)   District use regulations.
      (1)   Uses permitted. Property in CZ shall be utilized only for those
uses permitted in the underlying zoning districts, unless otherwise specified
in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
      (2)   Uses permitted by review. Property in CZ shall be utilized only for
those uses permitted by review in the underlying zoning districts, unless
otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
   (B)   Site development standards.
      (1)   Standards of underlying district. Property shall be developed in
accordance with the development standards of the underlying district.
      (2)   Height. Buildings and structures are prohibited, unless otherwise
specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 . No building or structure shall exceed 25 feet in height or the
maximum height specified by the airspace control surfaces plan, whichever is
less.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-4) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-5 ACCIDENT POTENTIAL ZONE (APZ) I.
   This subdistrict is severely impacted by the operations of the nearby
airfield. Due to the number of flight tracks over this subdistrict, a risk
factor for aircraft accidents does exist, although not as great as CZ. APZ I
encompasses portions of Noise Zones Ldn 65<70, 70<75, 75<80 and 80+. Therefore,
noise sensitive uses are not compatible without the incorporation of extensive
noise attenuation construction. Exposure to outdoor noise could be a health
hazard to persons and animals. It is intended that the primary use of land in
this district remain for agriculture production of crops and other agriculture
services. Residential uses are not compatible with United States Air Force
(USAF) recommendations and are not permitted, unless otherwise specified in
table 1, §
11-10D-13.
   (A)   District use regulations.
      (1)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in APZ I shall be utilized
only for those uses permitted in the underlying zoning districts, unless
otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
      (2)   Uses permitted by review. Property and buildings in APZ I shall be
utilized only for those uses permitted by review in the underlying zoning
districts, unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
   (B)   Site development standards.
      (1)   Standards of underlying district. Property shall be developed in
accordance with the development standards of the underlying district.
      (2)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed 35 feet in height or
the maximum height specified by the airspace control surfaces plan, whichever
is less.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-5) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-6 ACCIDENT POTENTIAL ZONE (APZ) II.
   This subdistrict is heavily impacted by the operations of the nearby
airfield, which possess a significant risk factor for aircraft accidents.
Residential uses, other than low density single-family dwellings, are not
compatible. Density in this area is restricted to one dwelling unit per acre,
and commercial areas are limited to 50 persons per acre. APZ II encompasses
portions of Noise Zones Ldn 65<70 and 70<75. Therefore, noise sensitive uses
are not compatible without the incorporation of noise attenuation construction.
Most outdoor uses are only marginally compatible. It is intended that the
principal use of undeveloped lands within the district remain for agriculture
production of crops and other miscellaneous agriculture services until such
time as development is warranted. This subdistrict is also intended to
accommodate the wholesale, light industrial and retail uses that are permitted
in the underlying zoning districts, which do not concentrate large numbers of
people.
   (A)   District use regulations.
      (1)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in APZ II shall be utilized
only for those uses permitted in the underlying zoning districts, unless
otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
      (2)   Uses permitted by review. Property and buildings in APZ II shall be
utilized only for those uses permitted by review in the underlying zoning
districts, unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
   (B)   Site development standards.
      (1)   Standards of underlying district. Property shall be developed in
accordance with the development standards of the underlying zoning district.
      (2)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed the height specified
in the underlying zoning district, or the maximum height specified by the
airspace control surfaces plan, whichever is less.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-7) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-7 NOISE ZONE (NZ) 65<70 dB.
   This subdistrict is moderately impacted by the operations of the nearby
airfield. Noise sensitive uses are not compatible in the NZ 65<70 dB without
the incorporation of noise attenuation construction techniques. NZ 65<70 dB
also encompasses portions of APZ I and APZ II. The district is primarily
developed as low density single-family residential subdivisions and a community
park, with open space and farmland located near the base. Most outdoor uses
would be compatible. It is intended that the uses permitted in the underlying
zoning districts shall be permitted in Noise Zone 65<70 dB with noise
attenuation required for noise sensitive uses.
   (A)   District use regulations.
      (1)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in NZ 65<70 dB shall be
utilized only for those uses permitted in the underlying zoning districts,
unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
      (2)   Uses permitted by review. Property and buildings in NZ 65<70 dB
shall be utilized only for those uses permitted by review in the underlying
zoning districts, unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
   (B)   Site development standards.
      (1)   Standards of underlying district. Property shall be developed in
accordance with the development standards of the underlying zoning district.
      (2)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed the height specified
in the underlying zoning district, or the maximum height specified by the
airspace control surface plan, whichever is less.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-8) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-8 NOISE ZONE (NZ) 70<75 dB.
   This subdistrict is heavily impacted by the operations of the nearby
airfield. Noise sensitive uses are not compatible in the NZ 70<75 dB without
the incorporation of noise attenuation construction techniques. Moreover, most
outdoor uses would remain incompatible. NZ 70<75 dB also encompasses portions
of the APZ I and APZ II. It is intended that the uses permitted in the
underlying zoning districts shall be permitted in NZ 70<75 dB, with noise
attenuation required for noise sensitive uses.
   (A)   District use regulations.
      (1)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in NZ 70<75 dB shall be
utilized only for those uses permitted in the underlying zoning districts,
unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
      (2)   Uses permitted by review. Property and buildings in NZ 70<75 dB
shall be utilized only for those uses permitted by review in the underlying
zoning districts, unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
   (B)   Site development standards.
      (1)   Standards of underlying district. Property shall be developed in
accordance with the development standards of the underlying zoning district.
      (2)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed 35 feet in height or
the maximum height specified by the airspace control surfaces plan, whichever
is less.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-8) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-9 NOISE ZONE (NZ) 75<80 dB.
   This subdistrict is severely impacted by the operations of the airfield.
Noise sensitive uses are not compatible without the incorporation of noise
attenuation construction techniques. NZ 75<80 dB encompasses portions of APZ I
and the clear zone. Most outdoor uses would not be compatible.
   (A)   District use regulations.
      (1)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in NZ 75<80 dB shall be
utilized only for those uses permitted in the underlying zoning districts,
unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
      (2)   Uses permitted by review. Property and buildings in NZ 75<80 dB
shall be utilized only for those uses permitted by review in the underlying
zoning districts, unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
   (B)   Site development standards.
      (1)   Standards of underlying district. Property shall be developed in
accordance with the development standards of the underlying zoning district.
      (2)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed 35 feet in height or
the maximum height specified by the airspace control surfaces plan, whichever
is less.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-9) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-10 NOISE ZONE (NZ) 80+ dB.
   This subdistrict is the most severely impacted by the operations of the
adjacent airfield. Noise sensitive uses are not compatible without the
incorporation of extensive noise attenuation construction techniques. NZ 80+
also encompasses portions of the Clear Zone, and APZ I. Exposure to outside
noise could be a health hazard to persons and animals. It is intended that the
principal use of land shall remain for agriculture production of crops and
other miscellaneous agriculture services. Residential uses are not permitted
unless otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13.
   (A)   District use regulations.
      (1)   Uses permitted. Property in NZ 80+ shall be utilized only for those
uses permitted in the underlying zoning districts, unless otherwise specified
in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
      (2)   Uses permitted by review. Property in NZ 80+ shall be utilized only
for those uses permitted by review in the underlying zoning districts, unless
otherwise specified in table 1, §
11-10D-13 .
   (B)   Site development standards.
      (1)   Standards of underlying district. Property shall be developed in
accordance with the development standards of the underlying district.
      (2)   Height. Buildings and structures are prohibited, unless otherwise
specified in §
11-10D-13 , table 1. No building or structure shall exceed 25 feet in height or
the maximum height specified by the airspace control surfaces plan, whichever
is less.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-10) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10D-11 CERTAIN LAND USES PROHIBITED.
   Within the boundaries of the Airfield Environs Overlay District, there are
particular land uses, which are considered airfield hazards and therefore,
shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Uses which release into the air any substance, such as, but not
limited to, steam, dust, smoke, fumes or gases, unless such substance is
generated from agricultural use, which would impair visibility or otherwise
interfere with military operations including ground operations;
   (B)   Uses which produce light emissions, either direct or indirect
(reflective), which would interfere with pilot vision and aerial or ground
based night vision training;
   (C)   Uses which produce electrical emissions which would interfere with
military ground and aircraft communication and navigational equipment;
   (D)   Uses which attract birds or waterfowl, such as, but not limited to,
operation of sanitary landfills and maintenance of feeding stations;
   (E)   Uses which endanger the approach, departure or maneuvering of aircraft
by providing structures within ten feet of a defined aircraft approach,
departure or transitional surfaces or 100 feet beneath a low level military
training route; and
   (F)   Uses which detract from the aesthetic appearance or otherwise create
or promote an unsightly, unsanitary or unhealthy appearance of any entrance
into a military installation, including, but not limited to, automobile or
truck salvage yards, equipment storage sites or solid waste or disposal sites.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-11) (Ord. 2006-27, passed 12-5-2006)
§ 11-10D-12 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Continuance. A nonconforming use lawfully existing at the time this
section became effective may be continued except as provided otherwise.
   (B)   Discontinuation. If a nonconforming use of any building, structure or
land is discontinued or its normal operation slops for a period of five years,
the use shall thereafter conform to a use permitted in conformance with these
regulations. For purposes of this section, a BUILDING is defined as a structure
with a common roof and may include more than one business or use, that are
contiguous or adjoining, such as Oakwood Mall, Neilson Square or Sunset Plaza.
   (C)   Destruction by calamity. Any nonconforming use which has been damaged
or destroyed by fire or other causes may be repaired or rebuilt to its original
condition without regard to these regulations; provided, however, noise
attenuation construction shall be required if specified in §
11-10D-13 , table 1.
   (D)   Expansion or enlargement. A nonconforming use may not be expanded,
increased, enlarged or extended. However, the size or square feet of a
nonconforming building or structure, that is nonconforming due to the
concentration of persons (density), may be increased if by doing so the density
of the use is decreased by twenty-five percent (25%).
   (E)   Single-family dwellings permitted. Any lot or tract of record or
combination of lots of record existing as of the effective date hereof may be
utilized for the placement of a single-family dwelling, if so permitted in the
underlying zoning district; provided, however, noise attenuation construction
shall be required.
   (F)   Change of use. A nonconforming use of a building or structure or land
may be changed to an equal or less objectionable use within or outside of the
same classification. Once changed, the nonconforming use may not revert back to
the original use. For purposes of this section, less OBJECTIONABLE USES will
primarily refer to uses that result in a less dense concentration of persons.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-12) (Ord. 2008-17, passed 8-19-2008)
§ 11-10D-13 TABLES; LAND USE COMPATIBILITY.
   Table 1 of this section specifies those land uses which are not permitted
within the airfield environs overlay district, as well as those uses which may
be permitted if certain conditions are met such as low density or noise
attenuation as long as the uses are permitted in the underlying zoning
district. Table 2 of this section provides an alternative method of determining
the compatibility of land uses, but does not address noise attenuation. On
density issues, either chart can be used to determine whether the use is
allowed. If either one of the charts would permit the use, the use is allowed.
On noise attenuation issues, table 1 of this section must be used. These tables
must be used in conjunction with the underlying zoning to ensure a use is
permitted.
TABLE 1
LAND USE COMPATIBILITY
Land Use          Accident Potential Zones Noise Zones (DNL)
SLUCM Number Name Clear Zone APZ I APZ II  65<70 dB 70<75 dB 75<80 dB 80+ dB
TABLE 1
LAND USE COMPATIBILITY
Land Use                Accident Potential   Noise Zones (DNL)
                        Zones
SLUCM   Name            Clear APZ I   APZ II 65<70 dB 70<75 dB 75<80 dB 80+ dB
Number                  Zone
10      Residential
11      Household units
11.11   Single units;   N     N       Y1     A11      B11      N11      N11
        detached
11.12   Single units;   N     N       N      A11      B11      N        N
        semidetached
11.13   Single units;   N     N       N      A11      B11      N        N
        attached row
11.21   2 units; side   N     N       N      A11      B11      N        N
        by side
11.22   2 units; one    N     N       N      A11      B11      N        N
        above the other
11.31   Apartments;     N     N       N      A11      B11      N        N
        walk up
11.32   Apartments;     N     N       N      A11      B11      N        N
        elevator
12      Group quarters  N     N       N      A11      B11      N        N
13      Residential     N     N       N      A11      B11      N        N
        hotels
14      Mobile home     N     N       N      N        N        N        N
        parks or courts
15      Transient       N     N       N      A11      B11      C11      N
        lodgings
16      Other           N     N       N1     A11      B11      N        N
        residential
20      Manufacturing
        Food and
21      kindred         N     N2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        products;
        manufacturing
        Textile mill
22      products;       N     N2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        manufacturing
        Apparel and
        other finished
        products made
23      from fabrics,   N     N       N      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        leather and
        similar
        materials;
        manufacturing
        Lumber and wood
        products
24      (except         N     Y2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        furniture);
        manufacturing
        Furniture and
25      fixtures;       N     Y2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        manufacturing
        Paper and
26      allied          N     Y2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        products;
        manufacturing
        Printing,
27      publishing and  N     Y2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        allied
        industries
        Chemicals and
28      allied          N     N       N2     Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        products;
        manufacturing
        Petroleum
29      refining and    N     N       N      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        related
        industries
30      Manufacturing
        Rubber and
        miscellaneous
31      plastic         N     N2      N2     Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        products;
        manufacturing
        Stone, clay and
32      glass products; N     N2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        manufacturing
33      Primary metal   N     N2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        industries
        Fabricated
34      metal products; N     N2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        manufacturing
        Professional,
        scientific and
        controlling
        instruments;
35      photographic    N     N       N2     Y        A        B        N
        and optical
        goods; watches
        and clocks;
        manufacturing
39      Miscellaneous   N     Y2      Y2     Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        manufacturing
        Transportation,
40      communications
        and utilities
        Railroad, rapid
        rail transit
41      and street      N3    Y4      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        railroad
        transportation
42      Motor vehicle   N3    Y       Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        transportation
43      Aircraft        N3    Y4      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        transportation
44      Marine craft    N3    Y4      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        transportation
        Highway and
45      street right-   N3    Y       Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        of-way
46      Automobile      N3    Y4      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        parking
47      Communications  N3    Y4      Y      Y        A15      B15      N
48      Utilities       N3    Y4      Y      Y        Y        Y12      Y13
        Other
49      transportation, N3    Y4      Y      Y        A15      B15      N
        communications
        and utilities
50      Trade
51      Wholesale trade N     Y2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        Retail trade:
        building
52      materials,      N     Y2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
        hardware and
        farm equipment
        Retail trade:
53      general         N     N2      Y2     Y        A        B        N
        merchandise
54      Retail trade:   N     N2      Y2     Y        A        B        N
        food
        Retail trade:
        automotive,
55      marine craft,   N     Y2      Y2     Y        A        B        N
        aircraft and
        accessories
        Retail trade:
56      apparel and     N     N2      Y2     Y        A        B        N
        accessories
        Retail trade:
57      furniture, home N     N2      Y2     Y        A        B        N
        furnishings and
        equipment
        Retail trade:
58      eating and      N     N       N2     Y        A        B        N
        drinking
        establishments
59      Other retail    N     N2      Y2     Y        A        B        N
        trade
60      Services
        Finance,
61      insurance and   N     N       Y6     Y        A        B        N
        real estate
        services
62      Personal        N     N       Y6     Y        A        B        N
        services
62.4    Cemeteries      N     Y7      Y7     Y        Y12      Y13      Y14,21
63      Business        N     Y8      Y8     Y        A        B        N
        services
64      Repair services N     Y2      Y      Y        Y12      Y13      Y14
65      Professional    N     N       Y6     Y        A        B        N
        services
65.1    Hospitals,      N     N       N      A*       B*       N        N
        nursing homes
65.1    Other medical   N     N       N      Y        A        B        N
        facilities
        Contract
66      construction    N     Y6      Y      Y        A        B        N
        services
67      Governmental    N     N       Y6     Y*       A*       B*       N
        services
68      Educational     N     N       N      A*       B*       N        N
        services
69      Miscellaneous   N     N2      Y2     Y        A        B        N
        services
        Cultural,
70      entertainment
        and
        recreational
        Cultural
71      activities      N     N       N2     A*       B*       N        N
        (including
        churches)
71.2    Nature exhibits N     Y2      Y      Y*       N        N        N
72      Public assembly N     N       N      Y        N        N        N
72.1    Auditoriums,    N     N       N      A        B        N        N
        concert halls
        Outdoor music
72.11   shell,          N     N       N      N        N        N        N
        amphitheaters
        Outdoor sports
72.2    arenas,         N     N       N      Y17      Y17      N        N
        spectator
        sports
73      Amusements      N     N       Y8     Y        Y        N        N
        Recreational
        activities
74      (including golf N     Y8,9,10 Y      Y*       A*       B*       N
        courses, riding
        stables, water
        recreation)
75      Resorts and     N     N       N      Y*       Y*       N        N
        group camps
76      Parks           N     Y8      Y8     Y*       Y*       N        N
        Other cultural,
79      entertainment   N     Y9      Y9     Y*       Y*       N        N
        and recreation
        Resources
80      production and
        extraction
        Agriculture
81      (except         Y16   Y       Y      Y18      Y19      Y20      Y20,21
        livestock)
81.5 to Livestock
81.7    farming and     N     Y       Y      Y18      Y19      Y20      Y20,21
        animal breeding
        Agricultural
82      related         N     Y5      Y      Y18      Y19      N        N
        activities
        Forestry
83      activities and  N5    Y       Y      Y18      Y19      Y20      Y20,21
        related
        services
        Fishing
84      activities and  N5    Y5      Y      Y        Y        Y        Y
        related
        services
        Mining
85      activities and  N     Y5      Y      Y        Y        Y        Y
        related
        services
        Other resources
89      production and  N     Y5      Y      Y        Y        Y        Y
        extraction
 
 
Legend:
SLUCM: “Standard Land Use Coding Manual”, U.S. Department of Transportation.
Y: Yes - land uses and related structures are compatible without restriction.
N: No - land use and related structures are not compatible and are prohibited.
Y*: See asterisk (*) at the end of note 2 of this table.
Yx: Yes with restrictions - land use and related structures generally
compatible; see notes indicated by the superscript.
Nx: No with exceptions - see notes indicated by the superscript.
NLR: Noise level reduction (outdoor to indoor) to be achieved through
incorporation of noise attenuation measures into the design and construction of
the structures.
DNL: Day/night average sound level.
A, B or C: Land use and related structures are compatible; measures to achieve
NLR for A (DNL/65<70), B (DNL/70<75), C (DNL/75<80), need to be incorporated
into the design and construction of structures.
A*, B* and C*: Land use and related structures are compatible with NLR. However,
measures to achieve an overall noise level reduction do not necessarily solve
noise difficulties and additional evaluation is warranted. See appropriate
footnotes.
 
 
Notes to table:
1. Maximum density is 1 dwelling unit per acre possibly increased under a
planned unit development where maximum lot coverage is less than twenty percent
(20%).
2. Shopping malls and shopping centers are considered incompatible uses in any
accident potential zone (CZ, APZ I or APZ II). Uses are compatible if they do
not result in a gathering of individuals in an area that would result in an
average density of greater than 25 persons per hour during a 24-hour period,
not to exceed 50 persons per acre at any given time. Uses are compatible if
they do not result in a gathering of individuals in an area that would result
in an average density of greater than 25 persons per acre per hour during a 24-
hour period, not to exceed 50 persons per acre at any time. Average densities
of persons per hour during a 24-hour period are determined by calculating the
number of persons per acre expected on a site, multiplying by the number of
hours they will be on the site and dividing the total by 24. (For example: One
8-hour shift of 30 workers on a 1 acre site. Average density = 30 persons
expected x 8 hours on site = 240, then 240/24 = 10; thus average density per
acre per hour per a 24-hour period. Another example is two 8-hour shifts of 30
workers on a 1 acre site. Average density = 30 persons expected x 16 hours on
site = 480. Then 480/24 = 20; thus the average density = 20 persons per acre
per hour per a 24-hour period.) The maximum number of persons allowed per acre
per hour is calculated by dividing the number of hours persons will be on site
by 24 hours, and then dividing 25 persons per acre per hour by the result. The
resulting number is the maximum number of persons allowed per acre per hour;
provided it does not exceed 50. 50 persons per acre at any one time is the
maximum number of persons allowed under the standard. (For example: The maximum
density for two 8-hour shifts on a 1 acre site. 25 divided by 16/24 = 37.5
persons per acre per hour allowed.) Application of this formula results in the
following table which specifies the maximum persons per acre per hour for the
duration of the time that persons are expected to be on site during a 24-hour
period.
 
 
 Hours Of Operation Per Day Maximum Persons Allowed Per Acre/
                            During Each Hour
 Hours Of Operation Per Day Maximum Persons Allowed Per Acre/
                            During Each Hour
 24                         25
 23                         26
 22                         27
 21                         28
 20                         30
 19                         31
 18                         33
 17                         35
 16                         37
 15                         40
 14                         42
 13                         46
 12 or less                 50*
  
 
 
Note: Fractions in the maximum persons allowed column are rounded to the lowest
whole number.
*Concentration of people may not exceed 50 people per acre at any time, or 50
people on any 1 acre regardless of lot size. Additional acreage cannot be
aggregated to permit a higher concentration of people on any 1 site. The method
for calculating the number of people in a structure shall be in accordance with
chapter 10 of the international building code, which details the floor area in
square feet per occupant. However, buildings should be limited to 1 story and
the lot coverage shall not exceed twenty percent (20%).
3. The placement of structures, buildings or aboveground utility lines in the
CZ are prohibited.
4. No passenger terminals and no major aboveground transmission lines in APZ I.
5. Factors to be considered: labor intensity, structural coverage, explosive
characteristics and air pollution.
6. Low density office uses only. Meeting places, auditoriums and the like, are
prohibited.
7. Excludes chapels.
8. Facilities must be low density.
9. Clubhouses are prohibited.
10. Areas for gatherings of people are prohibited.
11. Residential uses are permitted through a use by review so long as they
incorporate measures to achieve outdoor to indoor NLR for DNL 65<70 dB and DNL
70<75 dB into construction of the residence, consistent with the “Guidelines
For The Sound Insulation Of Residences Exposed To Aircraft Operation”, Wyle
research report WR 89-7, which document is hereby incorporated by this
reference. Residential uses that do not incorporate these measures are
prohibited in the Airfield Environs Overlay District. NLR criteria will not
eliminate outdoor noise problems. However, building location and site planning
and design and use of berms and barriers can help mitigate outdoor exposure,
particularly from near ground level sources. Measures that reduce outdoor noise
should be used whenever practical in preference to measures which only protect
interior spaces.
12. Measures to achieve the same NLR as required for facilities in the DNL
65<70 dB range must be incorporated into the design and construction of
portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise
sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
13. Measures to achieve the same NLR as required for facilities in the DNL
70<75 dB range must be incorporated into the design and construction of
portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise
sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
14. Measures to achieve the same NLR as required for facilities in the DNL
75<80 dB range must be incorporated into the design and construction of
portions of these buildings where the public is received, office areas, noise
sensitive areas or where the normal noise level is low.
15. If noise sensitive, use indicated NLR; if not, the use is compatible.
16. No buildings.
17. Land use is compatible, provided special sound reinforcement systems are
installed.
18. Residential buildings required the same NLR as required for facilities in
the DNL 65<70 dB range.
19. Residential buildings required the same NLR as required for facilities in
the DNL 70<75 dB range.
20. Residential buildings are prohibited.
21. Land use is prohibited for cemeteries and forestry activities. Land use is
compatible for agriculture (except for livestock).
 
TABLE 2
LAND USE COMPATIBILITY IN ACCIDENT POTENTIAL ZONES1
SLUCM Number Land Use Name Clear Zone APZ I APZ II Density
TABLE 2
LAND USE COMPATIBILITY IN ACCIDENT POTENTIAL ZONES1
SLUCM   Land Use Name   Clear APZ I APZ II Density
Number                  Zone
10      Residential
11      Household units
11.11   Single units;   N     N     Y2     Maximum density of 1 to 2 Du/Ac
        detached
11.12   Single units;   N     N     N
        semidetached
11.13   Single units;   N     N     N
        attached row
11.21   2 units; side   N     N     N
        by side
11.22   2 units; one    N     N     N
        above the other
11.31   Apartments;     N     N     N
        walk up
11.32   Apartments;     N     N     N
        elevator
12      Group quarters  N     N     N
13      Residential     N     N     N
        hotels
14      Mobile home     N     N     N
        parks or courts
15      Transient       N     N     N
        lodgings
16      Other           N     N     N
        residential
20      Manufacturing3
        Food and
21      kindred         N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.56
        products;
        manufacturing
        Textile mill
22      products;       N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.56
        manufacturing
        Apparel and
        other finished
        products made
23      from fabrics,   N     N     N
        leather and
        similar
        materials;
        manufacturing
        Lumber and wood
        products                           Maximum FAR of 0.28 in APZ I and
24      (except         N     Y     Y      0.56 in APZ II
        furniture);
        manufacturing
        Furniture and                      Maximum FAR of 0.28 in APZ I and
25      fixtures;       N     Y     Y      0.56 in APZ II
        manufacturing
        Paper and
26      allied          N     Y     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.28 in APZ I and
        products;                          0.56 in APZ II
        manufacturing
        Printing,
27      publishing and  N     Y     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.28 in APZ I and
        allied                             0.56 in APZ II
        industries
        Chemicals and
28      allied          N     N     N
        products;
        manufacturing
        Petroleum
29      refining and    N     N     N
        related
        industries
30      Manufacturing
        Rubber and
        miscellaneous
31      plastic         N     N     N
        products;
        manufacturing
        Stone, clay and
32      glass products; N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.56
        manufacturing
33      Primary metal   N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.56
        industries
        Fabricated
34      metal products; N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.56
        manufacturing
        Professional,
        scientific and
        controlling
        instruments;
35      photographic    N     N     N
        and optical
        goods; watches
        and clocks;
        manufacturing
39      Miscellaneous   N     Y     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.28 in APZ I and
        manufacturing                      0.56 in APZ II
        Transportation,
40      communications                     See note 3
        and utilities4
        Railroad, rapid
        rail transit
41      and street      N     Y5    Y      See note 3
        railroad
        transportation
42      Motor vehicle   N     Y5    Y      See note 3
        transportation
43      Aircraft        N     Y5    Y      See note 3
        transportation
44      Marine craft    N     Y5    Y      See note 3
        transportation
        Highway and
45      street right-   N     Y5    Y      See note 3
        of-way
46      Automobile      N     Y5    Y      See note 3
        parking
47      Communications  N     Y5    Y      See note 3
48      Utilities       N     Y5    Y      See note 3
        Solid waste
        disposal
48.5    (landfills,     N     N     N
        incineration
        and the like)
        Other
49      transportation, N     Y5    Y      See note 3
        communications
        and utilities
50      Trade
51      Wholesale trade N     Y     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.28 in APZ I and
                                           0.56 in APZ II
        Retail trade:
        building                           Maximum FAR of 0.14 in APZ I and
52      materials,      N     Y     Y      0.28 in APZ II
        hardware and
        farm equipment
        Retail trade:
53      general         N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.14
        merchandise
54      Retail trade:   N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.24
        food
        Retail trade:
        automotive,                        Maximum FAR of 0.14 in APZ I and
55      marine craft,   N     Y     Y      0.28 in APZ II
        aircraft and
        accessories
        Retail trade:
56      apparel and     N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.28
        accessories
        Retail trade:
57      furniture, home N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.28
        furnishings and
        equipment
        Retail trade:
58      eating and      N     N     N
        drinking
        establishments
59      Other retail    N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.22
        trade
60      Services6
        Finance,
61      insurance and   N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.22 for “general
        real estate                        office/office park”
        services
62      Personal        N     N     Y      Office uses only. Maximum FAR of
        services                           0.22
62.4    Cemeteries      N     Y7    Y7
63      Business        N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.22 in APZ II
        services
        Warehousing and
63.7    storage         N     Y     Y      Maximum FAR of 1.0
        services
64      Repair services N     Y     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.11 in APZ I and
                                           0.22 in APZ II
65      Professional    N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.22
        services
65.1    Hospitals,      N     N     N
        nursing homes
65.1    Other medical   N     N     N
        facilities
        Contract                           Maximum FAR of 0.11 in APZ I and
66      construction    N     Y     Y      0.22 in APZ II
        services
67      Government      N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.22
        services
68      Educational     N     N     N
        services
69      Miscellaneous   N     N     Y      Maximum FAR of 0.22
        services
        Cultural,
70      entertainment
        and
        recreational
71      Cultural        N     N     N
        activities
71.2    Nature exhibits N     Y8    Y8
72      Public assembly N     N     N
72.1    Auditoriums,    N     N     N
        concert halls
        Outdoor music
72.11   shells,         N     N     N
        amphitheaters
        Outdoor sports
72.2    arenas,         N     N     N
        spectator
        sports
73      Amusements      N     N     Y
        Recreational
        activities
74      (including golf N     Y8    Y8
        courses, riding
        stables, water
        recreation)
75      Resorts and     N     N     N
        group camps
76      Parks           N     Y8    Y8
        Other cultural,
79      entertainment   N     Y8    Y8
        and recreation
        Resources
80      production and
        extraction
        Agriculture
81      (except         Y4    Y9    Y9
        livestock)
81.5 to Livestock
81.7    farming and     N     Y9,10 Y9,10
        animal breeding
        Agriculture                        Maximum FAR of 0.28; no activity
82      related         N     Y9    Y9     which produces smoke, glare,
        activities                         birds or involves explosives
        Forestry                           Maximum FAR of 0.28; no activity
83      activities11    N     Y     Y      which produces smoke, glare,
        and related                        birds or involves explosives
        services
        Fishing                            Maximum FAR of 0.28; no activity
84      activities12    N12   Y     Y      which produces smoke, glare,
        and related                        birds or involves explosives
        services
        Mining                             Maximum FAR of 0.28; no activity
85      activities and  N     Y     Y      which produces smoke, glare,
        related                            birds or involves explosives
        services
        Other resources                    Maximum FAR of 0.28; no activity
89      production and  N     Y            which produces smoke, glare,
        extraction                         birds or involves explosives
90      Other
91      Undeveloped     Y     Y     Y
        land
93      Water areas     N13   N13   N13
 
 
Legend:
SLUCM: “Standard Land Use Coding Manual”, U.S. Department of Transportation.
Y: Yes - land use and related structures are compatible without restriction.
N: No - land use and related structures are not compatible and are prohibited.
Yx: Yes with restrictions - land use and related structures are generally
compatible. However, see notes indicated by the superscript.
Nx: No with exceptions - land use and related structures are generally
incompatible. However, see notes indicated by the superscript.
FAR: Floor area ratio - it is used to measure nonresidential intensities or
densities.
A floor area ratio is the difference between the size of the building and the
site area measured in square feet. The site area is measured to the property
line to include the center of adjacent streets or alleyways, but does not
include the area utilized by separate buildings.
For multiple tenants in a building, the following equations should be used to
determine the floor area ratio for a particular tenant:
The floor area of a tenant (T) is divided by the combined leasable space of the
building plus the tenant’s proportionate share of the common space (B)
multiplied by the site area, which equals the individual tenant’s proportioned
site area (ITPSA). (T divided by B multiplied by site area = ITPSA.)
Then, the floor area of the tenant is divided by the ITPSA, which equals the
floor area ratio of a tenant. (T divided by ITPSA = FAR.)
Du/Ac: Dwelling units per acre - this metric is customarily used to measure
residential densities.
 
 
Notes to table:
1. A “yes” or a “no” designation for compatible land use is to be used only for general
comparison. Within each, uses exist where further evaluation may be needed in each
category as to whether it is clearly compatible, normally compatible or not compatible
due to the variation of densities of people and structures. Floor area ratios are
provided as a guide to density in some categories. In general, land use restrictions
which limit commercial, services or industrial buildings or structure occupants to 25
per acre in APZ I, and 50 per acre in APZ II are the range of occupancy levels
considered to be low density. Outside events should normally be limited to assemblies
of not more than 25 people per acre in APZ I, and maximum assemblies of 50 people per
acre in APZ II.
2. The maximum density for detached single-family housing is 1 to 2 dwelling units per
acre. In a planned unit development (PUD) of single-family detached units where
clustered housing development results in large open areas, this density could be
increased, provided the amount of surface area covered by structures does not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the PUD total area. PUD encourages clustered development that
leaves large open areas.
3. Other factors to be considered: labor intensity, structural coverage, explosive
characteristics, air pollution, electronic interference with aircraft, height of
structures and potential glare to pilots.
4. No structures (except airfield lighting), buildings or aboveground utility/
communications lines should be located in clear zone areas on or off the installation.
The clear zone is subject to severe restrictions. See NAVFAC P-80.3 or Tri-Service
manual AFM 32-1123(I); TM 5-803-7, NAVFAC P-971, “Airfield And Heliport Planning And
Design”, dated May 1, 1999, for specific design details.
5. No passenger terminals and no major aboveground transmission lines in APZ I.
6. Low intensity office uses only. Accessory uses such as meeting places, auditoriums
and the like, are not allowed.
7. No chapels are allowed within APZ I or APZ II.
8. Facilities must be low intensity. Facilities such as clubhouses, meeting places,
auditoriums, large classes, are not allowed.
9. Includes livestock grazing but excludes feedlots and intensive animal husbandry.
Activities that attract concentrations of birds that create a hazard to aircraft
operations are excluded.
10. Includes feedlots and intensive animal husbandry.
11. Lumber and timber products removed due to establishment, expansion or maintenance
of clear zones will be disposed of in accordance with appropriate DoD natural resources
instructions.
12. Controlled hunting and fishing may be permitted for the purpose of wildlife
management.
13. Naturally occurring water features (e.g., rivers, lakes, streams, wetlands) are
compatible.
 
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-13) (Ord. 2008-17, passed 8-19-2008)
§ 11-10D-14 NOISE LEVEL REDUCTION GUIDELINES.
   The study, Guidelines For Sound Insulation Of Residences Exposed To Aircraft
Operations, November 1989, Wyle research report WR89-7 is hereby adopted by
reference.
(Prior Code, § 11-10D-14) (Ord. 04-01, passed 1-6-2004)
ARTICLE E: CIO COMMERCIAL INCENTIVE OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 11-10E-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This article permits more intensive development of all or portions of
commercially zoned parcels in order to promote land use patterns, site design
and building forms that are consistent with the City’s land use policies. The
district can also be used to minimize hardships resulting from the application
of other land use regulations, such as the AED airfield environs overlay zoning
regulations. This article further encourages the redevelopment of existing
shopping centers, big box retail sites and other sites characterized by large
expanses of surface parking into a development pattern which is pedestrian
friendly, compatible with surrounding development, provides a visually
attractive site design and which reduces reliance on the automobile for
vehicular trips. The City will not approve a rezoning to CIO unless the
applicant transfers development rights pursuant to this article.
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-1) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-2 LOCATION.
   A CIO District may be approved for any lot or parcel located in the
following zoning districts: C-O Commercial Office, C-1 Light Commercial, C-
2 Planned Business Center and C-3 General Commercial, C-4 Central Business
District, I-1 Planned Industrial Park, I-2 Light Industrial or I-3 Heavy
Industrial.
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-2) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-3 DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in the CIO Commercial Incentive
Overlay District shall be used for any use permitted in the underlying zoning
district, and the following, as shown on a master development plan that is
approved with the CIO rezoning:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the C-O Commercial Office, C-1 Light
Commercial, C-2 Planned Business Center and C-3 General Commercial Zoning
Districts; and
      (2)   Any building that has multi-family dwellings and apartment houses
located above the ground floor, and any retail business, personal service
establishment or office located on the ground floor.
   (B)   Master development plan. The uses permitted in the CIO District are
restricted to those indicated on the master development plan that is approved
along with the CIO rezoning. No use other than that shown on the master
development plan is permitted unless the property is rezoned as provided in §
11-10E-10.
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-3) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-4 AREA REGULATIONS.
   No minimum lot size or minimum frontage is required for a CIO zoning
district.
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-4) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-5 SITE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Dimensional regulations. The master development plan shall divide the
lot or parcel, or a combination of contiguous lots or parcels, into an
“interior” and an “edge” area or areas. The “edge” areas are those areas that
extend at least 50 feet from the right-of-way of a collector or higher order
street or the boundaries of a residential zoning district. The “interior” areas
are the balance of the area subject to the CIO rezoning application. The
following regulations apply to the interior and edge areas as designated on the
master development plan:
Requirement Interior Edge
Requirement                           Interior             Edge
Front yard                            0                    20 feet
Height (see §§ 11-10E-7 and 11-10E-86 stories or 72 feet 4 stories or 45 feet
Rear yard                             0                    0 feet
Rear yard adjacent to residential     0                    10 feet
district or development
Side yard                             0                    0 feet
Side yard adjacent to residential     0                    10 feet
district or development
Side yard adjacent to street          0                    10 feet
 
   (B)   Parking.
      (1)   All permitted uses shall contain adequate space to provide for
parking, loading and maneuvering of vehicles in accordance with
Chapter 12 of this title and §
11-14-6, except as follows.
      (2)   The number of parking spaces required is as follows:
 
Use                                        Required Parking Spaces
Office buildings                           1 per 500 square feet
Residential                                0.75 per dwelling unit
Retail stores or other nonresidential uses 1 per 250 square feet
 
      (3)   All unenclosed parking lots containing more than ten spaces shall
contain a minimum of ten-foot landscaped strips along all street frontages with
shade trees planted in an amount equivalent to one shade tree for every 35 feet
of street frontage. The remaining perimeter of the parking lot shall be planted
with a four-foot landscaped strip and shade trees in the amount equivalent to
one shade tree for every 50 feet of the perimeter which does not abut upon a
public street. For the purposes of this article, landscaped strips may include
trees, shrubs, flowerbeds, planted earthen berms and other vegetation as well
as ornamental objects such as decorative fences, walls, statues and fountains.
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-5) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-6 BUILDING DESIGN.
   All principal buildings shall have a facade facing the other principal
buildings and a facade facing the street frontage line. Each facade shall:
   (A)   Have at least one principal entryway open to the general public during
normal business hours; and
   (B)   Windows and entryways that comprise at least thirty percent (30%) and
not more than eighty percent (80%) of the facade.
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-6) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-7 NUMBER OF PERMITTED DWELLING UNITS/RESIDENTIAL INTENSITY.
   The maximum number of permitted dwelling units within the CIO shall not
exceed a gross density computed as follows:
 
Gross Density
Edge     10
Interior 35
 
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-7) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-8 NONRESIDENTIAL INTENSITY.
   The gross floor area of the CIO shall not exceed the maximum floor area
ratio as follows:
 
Floor Area Ratio
Edge     0.35
Interior 0.6
 
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-8) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-9 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Private streets and alleys are permitted within a CIO if the following
criteria are met.
   (A)   The private streets are not connected with an adjacent parcel, which
is not a part of the CIO.
   (B)   The owner/applicant shall clearly demonstrate the existence and
capabilities of the applicant or a property owners’ association to provide the
ongoing and long term maintenance of the private street and alley facilities
that will not be provided by the City.
   (C)   The private streets shall be designed and constructed with the City’s
standards and specifications for public streets and alleys; provided that
modifications may be requested and approved as a part of the master development
plan if the following criteria are met.
      (1)   Construction and design shall be adequate to provide a traffic
carrying and utility installation capacity related to the design of the overall
street system, the function of the individual street and the land use served.
      (2)   Paving cross-sections shall be designed to be adequate to provide
acceptable drainage in conformity with the drainage plan for the CIO; to
receive loading commensurate with anticipated traffic based on the design of
the overall street system; and to be a maintenance level commensurate with that
of facilities constructed to regular city standards.
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-9) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-10E-10 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Administration of CIO. The developer of a CIO shall follow a five-step
application and review procedure:
      (1)   Optional preapplication review;
      (2)   Application for rezoning, submission of master development plan and
CIO design statement;
      (3)   Preliminary plat and/or preliminary site development plan;
      (4)   Final plat and final site development plan; and
      (5)   Application for building permit.
   (B)   Preapplication review. Prior to submission of an application for
rezoning for CIO, the applicant should discuss with the Planning Administrator
the procedure for adopting a CIO and the requirements for the general layout of
the major roadways and utilities, access to arterials, general design and
narrative, the availability of existing services and similar matters. The
Planning Administrator shall also advise the applicant, where appropriate, to
discuss the proposed development with those officials who must eventually
approve the various aspects of the proposal coming within their jurisdiction.
The intent of the preapplication review is to expedite the mandatory design
review process and to facilitate the approval of the master development plan.
   (C)   Application for rezoning and master development plan.
      (1)   General. Any person, corporation, partnership, association or
combination thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in a
tract of land may apply for the Supplemental District Designation CIO. Such
application shall be accompanied by a master development plan. An application
for the Supplemental District Designation CIO may be processed simultaneously
with an application for an amendment to the underlying general zoning district
(s) and made contingent upon approval of said application.
      (2)   Application and master development plan. An application for a CIO
shall be filed with the Planning Commission. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee in accordance with a fee of $50 plus $5 per acre to defray
the cost of public notice and investigation. Three copies of the master
development plan showing the major details of the proposed development at a
scale of not less than one inch equals 200 feet, shall accompany the filing of
the application. The master development plan shall consist of maps and text
that contain:
         (a)   A site plan reflecting:
            1.   Proposed location and approximate size in acres or square feet
of all uses, including off street parking and building areas, open spaces and
public uses;
            2.   General development standards for location, height setback and
size of buildings and other structures;
            3.   General design standards for all proposed signs;
            4.   General development standards for proposed landscaping;
            5.   Public and private vehicular and pedestrian circulation
systems including major points of access to public rights-of-way;
            6.   Existing, and proposed land use intensity designation, density
of proposed dwelling units by type and proposed floor area ratios of commercial
structures;
            7.   The relationship to adjoining uses and properties including
adjacent land uses, zoning, densities, circulation systems, public utilities
and facilities and drainage areas; and
            8.   The existing topography, all floodplain areas, all drainage
areas in acres, treed areas and slope and general soil classifications.
         (b)   A written explanation of the character of the CIO:
            1.   A legal description of the CIO;
            2.   A list of all owners and developers of the CIO;
            3.   Title of the CIO and a description of the CIO concept;
            4.   Proposed sequence and schedule of development;
            5.   Statement of improvements to be made to the major
transportation system and major utility systems;
            6.   Statement of applicant’s intention to future ownership of all
portions of the CIO; and
            7.   Proposed restrictions and covenants which will govern the use
and continued maintenance of the development.
      (3)   Project phasing. All information and data required at the master
development plan stage must include the entire CIO site. Applications for
preliminary plans and plats may be made for any portion of the overall master
development plan. Requirements may be made for off site public improvements on
a phased project.
      (4)   Public hearing and Planning Commission action. The Planning
Administrator, upon filing of an application for the supplemental district
designation CIO, shall set the matter for public hearing in accordance with the
regular procedures for zoning applications. Within 60 days after the filing of
an application, the Planning Commission shall conduct the public hearing and
shall determine:
         (a)   Whether the CIO is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Whether the CIO harmonizes with the existing and expected
development of surrounding areas;
         (c)   Whether the CIO is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site; and
         (d)   Whether the CIO is consistent with the stated purposes of the
standards of this article. The Planning Commission shall forward its
recommendations, the application and the master development plan to the City
Council for further hearing.
      (5)   City Council action. Upon receipt of the application, master
development plan and Planning Commission recommendation, the City Council shall
hold a hearing, review the master development plan and approve, disapprove,
modify or return the master development plan to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. Upon approval, the zoning map shall be amended to
reflect the Supplemental Designation CIO, and the applicant shall be authorized
to process a preliminary plat and preliminary site development plan
incorporating the provisions of the master development plan.
   (D)   Preliminary site development plan and preliminary plat.
      (1)   General. Upon approval of the zoning and the master development
plan, application may be filed for a preliminary plan and, if a subdivision is
created, preliminary plat review. Materials pertaining to the preliminary plan
and plat must all be submitted to the Development Services Department by the
administratively designated deadline at least two weeks prior to the meeting of
the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, at which time the preliminary plan
and plat will be considered. Application for preliminary plat and preliminary
site development plan approval shall include a fee of $50 to defray the cost of
administrative review and investigation. After the Development Services
Department has received the preliminary plan and plat application in the form
herein required, the matter will be placed on the agenda for the appropriate
meeting of the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission.
      (2)   Contents of the preliminary plans. In addition to the requirements
of the City’s subdivision regulations for preliminary plats, the following
shall be submitted either on the preliminary plat or on separate plan sheets to
the same scale:
         (a)   The existing site conditions including contours at two foot
intervals; all watercourses; 50-year and 100-year floodplains; unique natural
features and vegetative cover, including all existing trees;
         (b)   The tentative location and floor area of all existing and
proposed building, structures and other improvements, including maximum
heights, types of dwelling units, density per type and nonresidential
structures including commercial and industrial facilities;
         (c)   Preliminary architectural elevations of the proposed
improvements sufficient to relay the basic architectural intent;
         (d)   The general drainage system including the number of acres in
each drainage area and proposed coverage of buildings and structures for the
purpose of calculating storm drainage runoffs and storm drainage retention
requirements;
         (e)   The location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated, reserved or otherwise used as common open space, public
park, recreational areas, school sites and similar public and semipublic uses;
         (f)   The existing and proposed circulation system of arterial,
collector and local streets, including off street parking areas, service areas,
loading zones and major points of access to public rights-of-way (including
major points of ingress and egress to the development). Notations of proposed
ownership (public or private) should be included where appropriate. Right-of-
way and paved surfaces for each street shall be shown in accordance with the
minimum design standards outlined in this article and the current city-area
long range transportation plan. The circulation system plan shall include the
existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system, including its
interrelationships with the vehicular circulation system, indicating proposed
treatment of points of conflict;
         (g)   The existing and proposed utility systems, including sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, water, fire hydrants and trash collection areas;
         (h)   A general landscaping plan indicating the treatment of materials
used for private and common open spaces. The details of size and species for
intended plantings of vegetation will be required at the final plan phase;
         (i)   A map of the area which surrounds the site within a distance of
at least 300 feet, showing surrounding land uses, zoning classifications,
densities, circulation systems and public facilities;
         (j)   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the CIO, including
materials and techniques used for screening such as fencing, walls and other
landscaping; and
         (k)   Street cross-section schematics shall be submitted for each
general category of street to be included within the proposed development (one
of local, subcollector, collector streets) to include proposed width, treatment
of curbs and gutters, sidewalk systems and bikeway systems. Street designs must
be consistent with the minimum street standards contained in this article.
      (3)   Public hearing and Planning Commission action. The Planning
Administrator upon the filing of an application for preliminary plan and
preliminary plat approval shall set the matter for public hearing. The Planning
Commission shall conduct the public hearing and shall determine:
         (a)   Whether the preliminary plans and preliminary plat are
consistent with the master development plan;
         (b)   Whether the preliminary plans and plat harmonize development
with the existing and expected development of surrounding areas;
         (c)   Whether the preliminary plans and plat represent a unified
treatment of the development possibilities of the particular project site; and
         (d)   Whether the preliminary plans and plat are consistent with the
stated purposes and standards of this article.
      (4)   Effect of approval. Upon approval of the Planning Commission, the
applicant may file a final site development plan and final plat incorporating
the provisions of the preliminary site development plan and preliminary plat.
   (E)   Final site development plan and final plat.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   After approval by the Planning Commission of the preliminary
plan and plat, the applicant may apply for approval of the final site
development plan and, if required, the final plat. The final plan and plat
shall substantially comply with the requirements of the approved preliminary
plan. The final site development plan and final plat substantially comply with
the preliminary site development plan and preliminary plat if:
            1.   They do not involve a reduction of more than five percent (5%)
of the area reserved for common open space or useable open space;
            2.   They do not increase the floor area proposed for
nonresidential use by more than five percent (5%);
            3.   They do not increase residential densities; and
            4.   They do not increase total ground area covered by buildings by
more than five percent (5%).
         (b)   If the final plan is not in substantial compliance with the
approved preliminary plan, the revision shall require the same review and
public hearing process required for approval of the preliminary plan. All
applications for final site development plan and final plat approval shall be
accompanied with a $50 filing fee to defray the cost of review and
investigation.
      (2)   Contents of final plans. In addition to the requirements of the
city subdivision regulations for final plats, the following information shall
be submitted with the final plat on a separate final site development plan(s)
at the same scale as the final plat:
         (a)   Lot lines;
         (b)   The location and floor area of all existing and proposed
buildings, structures, ground signs and other improvements, including maximum
height, types of dwelling units, density per type and nonresidential structures
including commercial facilities. All buildings shall be dimensioned with
distances shown from clear reference points;
         (c)   The location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated, reserved or used as common open spaces, public parks,
recreational areas, school sites and similar public or semipublic uses;
         (d)   The existing and proposed circulation system of arterial,
collector and local streets, including off street parking areas, service areas,
loading zones and major points of access to public rights-of-way. Notations of
ownership (public or private) shall be included where appropriate. Rights-of-
way and paved widths for each street shall be shown in accordance with the
minimum design standards of this article;
         (e)   The existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system,
including its interrelationships with the vehicular circulation system
indicating the proposed treatment of points of conflict;
         (f)   Preliminary architectural elevations (perspectives) sufficient
to relay the basic architectural intent of the proposed improvements;
         (g)   A landscape plan including the extent and location of all plant
materials and other landscaped features. Plant material must be identified by
direct labeling plan or by a clearly understandable legend. Proposed treatment
of all ground surfaces must be clearly indicated, including, but not limited
to, paving, turf, gravel, grading and flower and shrub beds;
         (h)   The provisions for the ownership and maintenance of the common
open spaces as will reasonably ensure its continuity and conversation. Open
space may be dedicated to a private association or to the public; provided that
a dedication to the public shall not be accepted without the approval of the
City Council; and
         (i)   Such covenants as will reasonably ensure the continued
compliance with the approved master development plan and the final site
development plan. In order that the public interest may be protected, the City
may be made beneficiary of covenants pertaining to such matters as location of
uses, height of structures, landscaping, drainage, setbacks, screening, parking
and access. Such covenants shall provide that the City may enforce compliance
therewith, and shall further provide that amendment of such covenants shall
require the approval of the Planning Commission and the filing of record of a
written amendment to the covenants endorsed by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Planning Commission hearing and action.
         (a)   The Planning Administrator, upon the filing of an application
for final site development plan and final plat approval shall set the matter
for public hearing in accordance with the regular procedures for final plat
filing as prescribed in the subdivision regulations. The Planning Commission
shall conduct the hearing and shall determine:
            1.   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are
consistent with the preliminary plans previously approved;
            2.   Whether the final site development plan and final plat
harmonize with the existing and expected development of surrounding areas;
            3.   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are a
unified treatment of the development possibilities of the project site; and
            4.   Whether the final site development plan and final plat are
consistent with the stated purposes and standards of this article.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall forward its recommendation, the
application and the final plans to the City Council for further hearing.
      (4)   City Council action. Upon receipt of the application, all final
plans and the Planning Commission recommendation, the City Council shall hold a
hearing; review the final plans, and approve, disapprove, modify or return the
plans to the Planning Commission for further consideration. Upon approval of
the final site development plan and the final plat, the applicant may proceed
with the filing of the final plat.
   (F)   Issuance of building permits. After the filing of an approved CIO
subdivision plat, and notice thereof to the Code Official, no building permit
shall be issued on land within the CIO, except in accordance with the approved
plat.
(Prior Code, § 11-10E-10) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
ARTICLE F: WEBSTER PARK AREA R-4 (DUPLEX OR TWO-FAMILY) RESIDENTIAL
MANUFACTURED HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 11-10F-1 INTENT.
   The City has determined that there is insufficient affordable housing in the
community even though there are areas of town that have utilities and roads
that have not been fully developed. The City’s intent is to encourage infill
development to meet the housing need. The Webster Park Overlay District is made
up of parts of quite a few subdivisions, that were platted from 1907 through
the 1979, with many lots where infill with Residential Manufactured Homes could
be encouraged within the Overlay.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10F-2 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to designate a R-4 Overlay District to be
referred to as the “Webster Park Area R-4 (Duplex or Two Family) Residential
Manufactured Home Overlay District” in which residential manufactured homes
would be a permitted use.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10F-3 BOUNDARIES OF OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The Webster Park Area R-4 Residential Manufactured Housing Overlay District
is bounded: on the West by North 16th Street from East Cherry Avenue to East
Oak Avenue; thence east along East Oak Avenue to North 21th Street; thence
South along North 21th Street to East Maple Avenue; thence East on Maple to
North 23rd Street; thence South to East Randolph Avenue to North 30th Street;
thence North to East Cypress Avenue; thence West to South 28th Street; thence
North to East Oak Avenue; thence West to North 26th Street to East Birch
Avenue; thence West along East Birch and then North West diagonally across the
back of the lots facing Nancy Drive to East Cherry Avenue; thence West to North
16th Street. (See, Exhibit “A”, a map of the Overlay Area attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.)
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10F-4 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in this district are as follows:
   (A)   Any use permitted in R-4 residential districts; and
   (B)   Single-family or two-family residential manufactured homes, as defined
in §
11-1-7 of this code.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10F-5 USE BY REVIEW.
   Any use by review listed in R-4 residential districts.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10F-6 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations are as follows:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard: 20 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: Five feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 20 feet.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 50 feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family: For every dwelling erected or
structurally altered, there shall be provided a lot area of not less than 6,000
square feet in area for a one-family dwelling and not less than 7,000 square
feet for a two-family dwelling.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10F-7 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations are as follows: principal building: 35 feet.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-6-2024)
ARTICLE G: SOUTHERN HEIGHTS R-2 RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED
HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 11-10G-1 INTENT.
   The City has determined that there is insufficient affordable housing in the
community even though there are areas of town that have utilities and roads
that have not been fully developed. The City’s intent is to encourage infill
development to meet the housing need.
(Ord. 2024-13, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10G-2 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to create the Southern Heights R-
2 Residential Manufactured Housing Overlay District in part of Southern Heights
and other neighboring subdivisions in which residential manufactured homes are
allowed as a permitted use.
(Ord. 2024-13, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10G-3 BOUNDARIES OF OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The Southern Heights R-2 Residential Manufactured Housing Overlay District
is bounded by East State Avenue from South 3rd Street to South 7th Street,
thence south down South 7th Street to Frantz Avenue, thence west to South 3rd
Street, thence north to East State Avenue. (See map attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.)
(Ord. 2024-13, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10G-4 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in this district:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-2 Residential (Single-Family) District; and
   (B)   Single-family and/or two-family residential manufactured homes as
allowed by the underlying zoning district.
(Ord. 2024-13, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10G-5 USE BY REVIEW.
   The following uses are permitted by review: Any use by review listed in R-
2 Residential (Single-Family) Districts.
(Ord. 2024-13, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10G-6 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Area regulations for this district are as follow:
   (A)   Yards:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: Five feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: 20 feet; however, platted lots with common area and open
space adjacent to the rear property line may use the open space as a rear yard
setback to obtain 15 feet of the 20 feet; provided:
         (a)   A recorded, irrevocable easement running with the land is
granted limiting the use of all of the open space to an open area without
buildings or structures for which a building permit is required thereon and
providing for maintenance thereof; and
         (b)   The common area is at least 40 feet in width.
   (B)   Lots:
      (1)   Minimum frontage of lot: 50 feet. Lots platted on cul-de-sacs shall
have a lot width of not less than 50 feet at the building line; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area per family: 6,000 square feet.
(Ord. 2024-13, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10G-7 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Height regulations for this district are as follow: Principal building: 35
feet.
(Ord. 2024-13, passed 8-6-2024)
ARTICLE H: INFILL RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 11-10H-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The planned unit development is designed to provide for redevelopment of
residential property in areas of the City where infill is appropriate in places
that already have streets and utilities, which are planned and developed as a
unit. Such development may consist of individual lots. A planned unit
development shall be a separate entity with a distinct character in harmony
with surrounding development. This simplified planned unit development “SPUD”
is to encourage the use of residential manufactured homes for infill
development to meet the City’s housing needs.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-2 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of these regulations to encourage affordable housing. The
purpose is to facilitate infill development by providing greater flexibility
than would otherwise be possible through the strict application of the general
zoning district regulations, and to produce:
   (A)   A maximum choice in the types of environments and living units
available to the public;
   (B)   A pattern of development which preserves trees, outstanding natural
topography and geologic features, and prevents soil erosion;
   (C)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
development;
   (D)   An efficient use of land resulting in lowering housing costs; and
   (E)   An environment of stable character in harmony with the surrounding
development.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-3 LOCATION.
   A SPUD shall be permitted in R-4 and R-4A, already platted subdivisions that
have utilities and roads.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-4 DESIGN.
   (A)   Development. The proposed SPUD shall be designed to provide for a
unified development in accordance with the spirit and the purposes of the
district in which it is located.
   (B)   Modifications. Design may provide for modification of the yard
setbacks and lot requirements.
   (C)   Single-family and two-family residential manufactured homes shall be
allowed. Single-wide residential manufactured homes are allowed on multiple
contiguous lots.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses customarily incidental to principal
uses in residential zoned property within the SPUD are permitted.
   (E)   Compliance with airport restriction zones. All building and structure
heights shall be in compliance with the Airport Restriction Zones of Vance Air
Force Base and Woodring Municipal Airport.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-5 EFFECT OF SPUD APPROVAL.
   (A)   Overlay district. The SPUD is an overlay district. The underlying
zoning and land use plan designations on the property shall continue.
   (B)   Time limit. Construction shall be started within one year of the
effective date of approval of the SPUD and approval of the plot plan. Failure
to begin the development within the year shall automatically void the
development plan. The developer shall be notified, in writing, of the
expiration of the approval within 15 days from the expiration date by the
office of the Code Official. Action shall be taken by the Planning Commission
and the City Council to amend the zoning map to repeal the SPUD designation,
and the land shall remain in the same zoning classification which existed
immediately preceding the approval of the SPUD.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-6 ADMINISTRATION OF SPUD.
   The developer of a SPUD shall follow a four-step review process:
   (A)   Optional preapplication review;
   (B)   Submission of SPUD plan and design;
   (C)   Submission of a new survey, if necessary, a plot plan or a site
development plan; and
   (D)   Submission of the application for a building permit.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-7 PREAPPLICATION REVIEW.
   Prior to submission of an application, the applicant should discuss with the
Director of Community Development the procedure for adopting a SPUD and the
requirement of filing a SPUD plan and design. The director shall also advise
the applicant, when appropriate, to discuss the proposed development with those
officials who must eventually approve the various aspects of the proposal
coming within their jurisdiction. The intent of the preapplication review is to
expedite the mandatory design review process and to facilitate the approval of
the SPUD, if appropriate.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-8 APPLICATION FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE SPUD.
   Any person, corporation, partnership, association or combination thereof,
owning or possessing a property right or interest in a tract of land may make
application for the supplemental district designation SPUD. Such application
shall be accompanied by a SPUD plan and design. An application for the
supplemental district designation SPUD may be processed simultaneously with a
submission of a site plan or plot plan and made contingent upon approval of
said application.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   An application for a SPUD shall be filed with the Planning
Commission. The application shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with
the following fee schedule to defray the cost of the public notice and
investigation: For all proposed R-4 and R-4A: $50.
      (2)   Three copies of the SPUD plan and design showing the major details
of the proposed development at scale shall accompany the filing of the
application. It shall include:
         (a)   A plot plan or a site plan, that includes:
            1.   Proposed location and approximate size in acres or square feet
of all structures; and if necessary a new survey;
            2.   Location, height, setback and size of buildings and other
structures;
            3.   Proposed landscaping;
            4.   Driveways and connections to utilities;
            5.   Dwelling units by type, and accessory structures, such as
garages; and
            6.   The relationship to adjoining uses and properties, including
adjacent land uses, and drainage areas.
         (b)   A written explanation of the character of the SPUD:
            1.   A legal description of the SPUD;
            2.   A list of all owners and developers of the SPUD;
            3.   Title of the SPUD and a description of the SPUD concept;
            4.   Proposed sequence and schedule of development;
            5.   Statement of applicant’s intention as to future ownership of
the SPUD; and
            6.   Proposed restrictions and covenants, if required, which will
govern the use and continued maintenance of the development.
   (B)   Project phasing. All information and data must include the entire SPUD
site.
   (C)   Public hearing and Planning Commission action.
      (1)   The Director of Community Development, upon filing of an
application for the supplemental district designation SPUD, shall set the
matter for public hearing in accordance with the regular procedures for zoning
applications. Within 60 days after the filing of an application, the Planning
Commission shall conduct the public hearing and shall determine:
         (a)   Whether the SPUD is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Whether the SPUD harmonizes with the existing and expected
development of surrounding areas;
         (c)   Whether the SPUD is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site; and
         (d)   Whether the SPUD is consistent with the stated purposes of the
standards of this article.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall forward its recommendations, the
application and the SPUD plan and design to the City Council for further
hearing.
   (D)   Action by the City Council. Upon receipt of the application and the
SPUD plan, the design and Planning Commission recommendation, the City Council
shall hold a hearing, review the documents and approve, disapprove, modify or
return the SPUD to the Planning Commission for further consideration. Upon
approval, the zoning map shall be amended to reflect the supplemental
designation.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-9 APPLICATION FOR REVIEW OF SITE PLAN.
   (A)   If a site plan is part of the SPUD, the application for review of the
site plan may be made prior to the approval of the SPUD by the Planning
Commission and the City Council, but it will not be approved until the SPUD is
approved.
   (B)   An application shall be accompanied by a fee of $50 to defray the cost
of administrative review and investigation.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 11-10H-10 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   After the approval of the SPUD, and if a site plan is part of the SPUD after
approval of the site plan by Community Development, a building permit may be
submitted to the Code Official.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 8-6-2024)
CHAPTER 11: SITE PLAN REVIEW
Section
   
11-11-1   Purpose
   
11-11-2   Intent
   
11-11-3   Applicability
   
11-11-4   Exceptions
   
11-11-5   Design standards
   
11-11-6   Preapplication review
   
11-11-7   Site plan preparation
   
11-11-8   Contents of site plan
   
11-11-9   Site plan submission and review
   
11-11-10   Public notice
   
11-11-11   Issuance of building permit
   
11-11-12   Amendments
   
11-11-13   Occupancy permit
   
11-11-14   Penalty
   
11-11-15   Variance
§ 11-11-1 PURPOSE.
   By reason of potential adverse effect on public services, community
appearance, environment, welfare and to neighboring land uses, site plan review
and approval shall be required for development. For the purpose of assuring
proper accessibility, circulation, functional relationships of uses and
compatibility with adjoining and nearby development, no building or occupancy
permit shall be issued, nor use commenced, except in accordance with a site
plan submitted and approved by the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-2 INTENT.
   The site plan review process recognizes that the developments to which it is
made applicable, even though generally suitable for location in a particular
district or on a particular site, are, because of their nature, size,
complexity or other indicators of probable impact, capable of adversely
affecting the purposes for which the regulations of this title are established,
unless careful consideration has been given to critical design elements.
Therefore, it is the intent of this process to ensure that all elements are
reviewed for compatibility with the provisions of this title. A site plan, much
like a preliminary plat of subdivision, is intended to serve as a working
document for the developer and the City. It shall provide sufficiently detailed
information to allow an informed decision concerning the overall acceptability
of the proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-3 APPLICABILITY.
   Site plan review shall be required, as a precondition to the issuance of a
building or occupancy permit, in the following instances:
   (A)   Residential uses. The development or establishment of any residential
land use consisting of more than one residential structure containing three or
more dwelling units;
   (B)   Commercial or public uses. The development or establishment of any
commercial or public use; and
   (C)   Convalescent or group homes. The initial establishment or development
of any convalescent, rest or nursing home; group home; rooming or boarding
house that will house more than ten residents excluding staff.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-4 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Enumeration. This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Permitted uses in A Agricultural Districts nor for their related
accessory uses and structures;
      (2)   Proposed development or redevelopment in any I-1, I-2 or I-
3 Industrial Zoning District not abutting an arterial;
      (3)   One- or two-family subdivisions or an individual three- or four-
family dwelling;
      (4)   New occupancies or existing structures in the C-4 Central Business
District Zone;
      (5)   Planned unit developments, mobile home parks and planned industrial
parks, which shall be developed in accordance with the site plan requirements
of the PUD regulations, the R-6 Mobile Home regulations and the I-1 Planned
Industrial development plan regulations;
      (6)   Additions or enlargements of existing individual dwellings, unless
the total number of units exceeds four within a residential structure;
      (7)   Additions to existing nonresidential buildings or uses when such
addition does not exceed 5,000 square feet or one-third of the gross floor area
of the existing building or use; and
      (8)   Any use permitted on a temporary basis for a period not to exceed
six months.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-4) (Ord. 2013-38, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 11-11-5 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following design standards shall apply to any development requiring site
plan review.
   (A)   Access. All developments requiring site plan review shall have
adequate and safe vehicular access to adjacent streets. All entrance and exit
driveways to public streets shall be located with due consideration for traffic
flow so as to afford minimum conflict to traffic on public streets. All such
entrances and exits shall be so located and designed so as to comply with the
traffic control policies of the City and in the case of state highways, they
shall comply with the Oklahoma Highway Commission’s Driveway Regulations for
Oklahoma Highways, see OAC Title 730, Chapter 35.
   (B)   Drainage. Proper surface drainage shall be provided so that removal of
surface waters will not adversely affect neighboring properties or the public
storm drainage system and will, so far as practicable, avoid flooding, erosion
and detrimental depositing of silt, gravel or stone. Surface water shall be
removed from all roofs, canopies and paved areas and disposed of in an
appropriate drainage system. Surface water in all paved areas shall be disposed
of in a manner approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be included as an integral part of the
development to provide a quality of life and amenities in keeping with the
natural physical surroundings of the City. All developments shall be landscaped
with trees, ornamental shrubs and green areas according to the following
standards.
      (1)   Not less than five percent (5%) of the total land area of the
development shall be landscaped with trees, ornamental shrubs, walkways and
green areas. At least seventy-five percent (75%) of this area shall be in the
front or side yards.
      (2)   All site plans shall include a detailed landscaping plan indicating
the type and number of plants to be provided.
      (3)   Artificial grass or any form of synthetic plant shall not be
permitted as landscaping.
      (4)   The use of gravel as ground cover shall not be considered as
meeting the minimum requirements of this section.
      (5)   The plan shall especially respect sight triangles at intersections
and be approved for all elements relating to traffic control.
      (6)   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until landscaping
has been installed in accordance with the approved site plan. If the season of
the year will not permit planting, a temporary certificate of occupancy shall
be issued until growing season. Failure to plant landscaping shall be a
violation of this title.
      (7)   All landscaping improvements shall be maintained in a live and
healthy manner.
      (8)   The Planning Commission and City Council may require that existing
landscaping and vegetation on the site be retained in order to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   Lighting. All lighting in parking areas, as part of signs and
advertising or special lighting, shall be so arranged to avoid unreasonable
reflection, glare or radiation onto operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians
and neighboring land uses or properties. Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall
have an arrangement of reflectors and an intensity which will not interfere
with adjacent land uses or the use of adjacent streets. In particular, no
flickering, moving or flashing lights shall be permitted.
   (E)   Parking. The location, width and layout of interior drives shall be
appropriate for the proposed interior circulation. The location and layout of
accessory off street parking and loading spaces shall provide for efficient
circulation and the safety of pedestrians and vehicles. The location of parking
areas shall not detract from the design of proposed buildings and structures or
from the appearance of the existing neighboring buildings, structures and
landscape. Provisions shall be made for access by police, fire and emergency
vehicles.
      (1)   Landscaping. All parking lots containing more than ten spaces must
have a minimum five foot landscaped strip adjacent to their perimeters with
shade trees planted in the amount equivalent to one shade tree for every 35
feet of the perimeter linear footage. On parking lot perimeters adjacent to
residentially zoned or developed land, the landscaped strip shall contain
seventy-five percent (75%) opaque screening which shall include a solid wall,
fence or compact evergreen hedge not less than five feet in height. In
addition, unenclosed parking lots with more than 20 spaces shall have a minimum
of two percent (2%) of the interior surface area landscaped and shall have a
permanent underground watering system. The interior landscaping shall be in
planting islands at aisle ends or strips between aisles. Where planting will be
susceptible to injury by pedestrians or motor traffic, they shall be protected
by appropriate curbs, tree guards or other devices. Parking lot landscaping as
required herein shall be considered as a part of the five percent (5%)
landscaping requirements specified in subsection (C)(1) above.
      (2)   Surfacing. All property used for parking of vehicles, storage and
display of merchandise, and all driveways used for vehicle ingress and egress
shall be paved with a permanent hard surface.
   (F)   Relation of proposed structures to environment.
      (1)   Proposed structures on the site shall be related in style and
design and shall also relate visually to the terrain and existing buildings and
roads in the vicinity. The achievement of such harmonious relationship may
include the enclosure of space in conjunction with other existing buildings or
other proposed buildings and the creation of focal points with respect to
avenues of approach, terrain features or other buildings. Proposed structures
shall be so sited as to minimize any adverse impact upon the surrounding area,
and particularly upon nearby residences, by reason of:
         (a)   Building location, height, bulk and shadows;
         (b)   Location, intensity, direction and time usage of outdoor
lighting;
         (c)   Likelihood of nuisances; and
         (d)   Other similar considerations.
      (2)   Appropriate screening shall be required to minimize any such
adverse impact.
   (G)   Screening. Development and maintenance of planting, fences and walls
shall be provided as an aesthetic barrier against traffic, noise, heat, glare
and dust for the protection and conservation of property. Whenever any lot
located in any commercial zone is to be developed or occupied by commercial
uses and it abuts a lot located in any residential zone or a lot developed
residentially and whenever any residential lot is to be developed at a density
three times greater than the density permitted on adjacent property, the lot
shall be screened by, and developed with, a minimum seventy-five percent (75%)
opaque barrier not less than five feet in height along the entire abutting lot
line. Said screening or barrier shall be dense landscaping, earthen berm, solid
lumber or masonry fence, wall or combination thereof. Solid lumber fencing
shall be treated or painted in earth tone colors. More extensive screening may
be required by the Planning Commission and City Council in instances where the
above described screening does not adequately protect adjacent properties from
unsightly or distractive activity and more extensive screening is required to
improve compatibility. The screening as shown on the approved site plan shall
be maintained in good condition. Prescribed fences, walls or dense landscaping
need not be provided along a lot line if a building, fence, wall or dense
landscaping of at least equivalent height, opacity and maintenance exists
immediately abutting on the opposite side of said lot line. In addition, the
Planning Commission and City Council may require that existing landscaping and
vegetation on the site which serves as partial or full screening be retained in
order to satisfy the requirements of this section.
   (H)   Special features. Outside storage areas, service and machinery
installations, service areas, truck loading areas, utility buildings and
structures and similar accessory areas and structures shall be subject to such
setbacks, screen plantings or other screening methods as shall reasonably be
required to prevent any adverse effect upon the environment or nearby property.
   (I)   Waste disposal. All containers for the disposal of wastes shall be
located on a concrete pad and shall be screened to the extent that the
container cannot be viewed by the public, except that location and screening
shall permit ready accessibility as required by Title 8, Chapter 4.
   (J)   Public rights-of-way, streets and easements. Each site plan shall
provide for the appropriate dedication and improvement of needed rights-of-way
and easements as are necessary to adequately serve the proposed development and
occupancy, comply with the minimum requirements of the metropolitan area
transportation plan and the minimum design standards of the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-6 PREAPPLICATION REVIEW.
   Prior to submission of a site plan, the applicant should discuss with the
Director of Community Development the procedure and the requirements for the
general layout of the site, utilities, access to arterials, general design and
narrative, the availability of existing services and similar matters. The
Director shall also advise the applicant, where appropriate, to discuss the
proposed development with those officials who must eventually approve the
various aspects of the proposal. The intent of the preapplication review is to
expedite the site plan review process and to facilitate the approval of the
development.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-6) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-7 SITE PLAN PREPARATION.
   (A)   Engineering improvements. Site plans, or any portion thereof,
involving public engineering improvements shall be certified by a professional
engineer registered in the state.
   (B)   Boundary survey. Every site plan shall include a boundary survey
completed and certified by a land surveyor licensed by the state.
   (C)   Scale drawing. Site plans shall be prepared to a scale of one inch
equals 50 feet or larger. The size of a plan sheet shall be at dimensions of 24
inches by 36 inches.
   (D)   Information format. A site plan shall be prepared on one or more
sheets to show clearly the information required by this title and to facilitate
the review and approval of the plan. If appropriate, match lines shall clearly
indicate where sheets join.
   (E)   Number of copies. Site plans shall be e-mailed in PDF format to the
current Assistant City Planner and shall also include any supportive maps or
data as may be required.
   (F)   Application form; filing fee. The site plan must, at the time of
submittal, be accompanied by the completed application form. The filing fee for
site plan review shall be $20. An application for the approval of a site plan
may be processed simultaneously with, and contingent upon, the approval of an
application for a zoning amendment.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-7) (Ord. 2013-38, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 11-11-8 CONTENTS OF SITE PLAN.
   All site plans shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Location of the tract, with references to names of adjoining streets,
streams, bodies of water, railroads, subdivisions or other landmarks sufficient
to clearly identify the location of the property;
   (B)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner or developer,
north arrow, date, scale of the drawing and number of sheets;
   (C)   Boundary dimensions and references as indicated by survey;
   (D)   Existing topography, with a maximum contour interval of two feet;
   (E)   All existing and proposed streets, pedestrian circulation systems,
utilities and easements, indicating their name, type and dimensions and the
location of all private utility service lines and connections to public
utilities;
   (F)   Zoning of all adjacent properties;
   (G)   The delineation of any flood hazard areas and drainage features as
defined by the Federal Insurance Administration;
   (H)   Location, type and dimensions of vehicular entrances to the site;
   (I)   All off street parking and loading areas in accordance with off street
parking regulations as specified in Chapter 12 of this title;
   (J)   The proposed location, use, number of floors, height and gross floor
area for each building; any outside display areas; signs and lighting; and,
where applicable, the number, size and type of dwelling units. Elevation
drawings shall be submitted for all signs and buildings;
   (K)   Location, type, size and height of fencing, retaining walls,
screening, plantings or landscaping. Elevation drawings shall be submitted for
all screen planting and fencing;
   (L)   Provisions for the adequate disposition of natural stormwater in
accordance with the adopted design criteria, standards and ordinances of the
City indicating the location, size, type and grade of ditches, catch basins and
pipes and connections to existing drainage systems and on site stormwater
detention systems. All such design criteria shall be approved by the City
Engineer; and
   (M)   Proposed finished grading by contours of two feet supplemented where
necessary by spot elevation.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-8) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-9 SITE PLAN SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Plans for development on property abutting arterials.
      (1)   All site plans shall be reviewed and approved by city staff prior
to the issuance of any building permit or occupancy permit for the property.
      (2)   City staff shall review the site plan for completeness and
compliance with the provisions of this title. Any necessary modifications shall
be forwarded to the applicant for resubmittal.
      (3)   (a)   Planned unit development (PUD) site plans and plans for
improvement within the Comprehensive Plan shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   PUD site plans shall be submitted to the Director of Community
Development no later than 14 days prior to the Metropolitan Area Planning
Commission meeting date at which it is to be considered.
      (4)   After review, the Director shall provide to the Planning
Commission, a written report recommending and listing reasons for the approval
or denial of the site plan.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing regarding
the proposed site plan and shall consider:
            1.   Whether the proposed site plan is consistent with the land use
plan;
            2.   Whether the proposed site plan harmonizes with the existing
and expected development of surrounding areas;
            3.   Whether provision has been made for proper accessibility,
circulation and functional relationships of land uses; and
            4.   Whether the proposed site plan is consistent with the purposes
and standards of this title.
         (b)   The Planning Commission may take the following actions.
            1.   Approval. If the site plan is recommended for approval, the
developer may proceed to the Code Enforcement Office to make application for
permits in compliance with the approved site plan.
            2.   Conditional approval. The Planning Commission may recommend
conditional approval of the site plan subject to any necessary amendments.
            3.   Denial. If the site plan is recommended for denial, the
reasons for such shall be recorded in the minutes of the Planning Commission
meeting. The reasons for denial shall refer to specific provisions of this
title to which the site plan does not conform.
      (5)   If the developer or any other person wishes to appeal the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, he shall file a written application
to appear before the City Council. Said appeal shall be made to the Director of
Community Development no later than seven days after the date of the Planning
Commission hearing. The City Council shall then conduct a public hearing to
consider the site plan.
      (6)   The City Council shall approve, conditionally approve or deny the
site plan. In the case of any action other than approval, the City Council
shall state the reasons for its action. As a condition of approval, the City
Council may require certain on site and off site improvements to be installed.
   (B)   Master development plan on property abutting arterials.
      (1)   For purposes of this subsection (B), a MASTER PLAN shall be a plan
for the prospective development of a tract of land which will be developed in
multiple phases over a period of time and for which many of the specifics of
individual parcel developments are not known.
      (2)   All master plans abutting arterials shall be reviewed and approved
by city staff and such plans shall be submitted to the Director of Community
Development.
      (3)   A master plan shall contain as much detail as is known at the time
of submission and shall include the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Location of the tract(s) with references to the names of
adjoining roads, streams, bodies of water, railroads, subdivisions or other
landmarks sufficient to clearly identify the location of the property;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner or
developer, north arrow, date, scale of the drawing and number of sheets;
         (c)   Boundary dimensions and references as indicated by a surveyor;
         (d)   Existing topography, with a maximum contour interval of two
feet;
         (e)   All existing and proposed streets, pedestrian circulation
systems, public utilities and easements indicating their name and type;
         (f)   Zoning of all adjacent properties;
         (g)   The delineation of any flood hazard areas and drainage features
as defined by the Federal Insurance Administration;
         (h)   Location of vehicular entrances to the site; and
         (i)   Proposed location and size in acres or square feet of all land
uses by general classification, including off street parking areas and
landscaping areas.
      (4)   In addition to the master site plan submission requirements in
subsection (B)(3) above, a written set of covenants containing requirements
which meet or exceed the minimum standards of this section shall be submitted.
Said covenants shall include:
         (a)   General development standards for location, height, setback and
size of buildings and other structures;
         (b)   General design standards for all proposed signs;
         (c)   General development standards for proposed landscaping; and
         (d)   General standards controlling design treatment of the boundaries
of the master plan site and its relationship to adjoining uses.
      (5)   City staff shall review the master plan for completeness and
compliance with the provisions of this title. Any necessary modifications shall
be forwarded to the applicant for resubmittal.
   (C)   Plans for development on property not abutting arterials and on
property included within previously approved master plans.
      (1)   All such plans shall be reviewed only by city staff for approval or
disapproval.
      (2)   City staff shall review the site plan for completeness and
compliance with the provisions of this title. In the case of a site plan for
the development of any property within a previously approved master plan, the
Director and City Engineer shall also review the site plan for compliance with
the approved master plan and covenants. If modifications are necessary, these
shall be forwarded to the applicant for resubmittal.
      (3)   Should the Director determine that the site plan violates the
provisions of this title, other ordinances of the City or, if applicable, the
approved master plan, he shall notify the developer that no building or
occupancy permit will be issued for the property.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-9) (Ord. 2013-38, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 11-11-10 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Posting property. After the Director receives an application for
planned unit development (PUD) site plan or plans for improvements within the
Comprehensive Plan, the subject property shall be posted with a notice or
notices which shall describe the development being proposed and the time and
place in which the application may be viewed by any interested person.
   (B)   Time of posting. Said notice shall be posted no later than seven days
prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which it will be considered. The
subject property shall remain posted until a final decision has been made
concerning the application.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-10) (Ord. 2013-38, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 11-11-11 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   Upon approval of the site or master plan, building permits may be issued in
accordance with the provisions of the approved site or master plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-11) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-12 AMENDMENTS.
   Minor changes to the site plan may be accomplished administratively through
the Director of Community Development, so long as substantial compliance is
maintained with the approved site plan. Proposed changes which could represent
a significant departure from the site plan, as approved by the Planning
Commission or City Council, shall require resubmittal. Major changes to an
approved site plan which would require resubmittal shall include, but not be
limited to, an increase in the bulk of any building by more than five percent
(5%), an increase in residential density or an increase in total ground area
covered by buildings by more than five percent (5%).
(Prior Code, § 11-11-12) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-13 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   Prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy, the applicant shall
complete, in a manner satisfactory to the City Engineer and Director, all
improvements required by this title and as required by the Planning Commission
or City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-13) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-14 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, partnership, firm, association or entity who shall
violate any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty of a Class C
offense. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof shall be deemed
a separate offense. Each day’s continued violation of any of the provisions
hereof shall constitute a separate offense and may be chargeable as such.
(2003 Code) (Prior Code, § 11-11-14) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-11-15 VARIANCE.
   When a variance to the provisions of this chapter is requested, the appeal
for a variance shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment. A variance may be
granted only under the provisions specified in §
11-3-7(B).
(Prior Code, § 11-11-15) (Ord. 2013-38, passed 9-17-2013)
CHAPTER 12: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
11-12-1   Parking space defined
   
11-12-2   Off street parking required
   
11-12-3   Schedule of parking space requirements
   
11-12-4   Development and use of parking spaces
§ 11-12-1 PARKING SPACE DEFINED.
   The term PARKING SPACE, as used in this chapter, shall mean a parcel of land
or a stall a minimum of 180 square feet in area, exclusive of drives, lanes or
aisles, provided with an unobstructed access thereto from a public street,
alley or other open space approved by the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-12-1) (Ord. 2012-05, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 11-12-2 OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   In all residence, commercial and industrial use districts, “parking space”,
as defined in §
11-12-1, shall be provided and maintained as accessory to every principal use,
building or structure enumerated in this chapter, when the principal use,
building or structure is hereafter changed, erected or enlarged.
(Prior Code, § 11-12-2) (Ord. 2012-05, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 11-12-3 SCHEDULE OF PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Multiple occupancy uses. For buildings or structures containing more
than one occupancy or use, the total number of parking spaces required shall be
the sum of the number of parking spaces for each individual occupancy or use.
   (B)   Schedule. Such parking spaces shall be provided for any principal use,
building or structure in compliance with the following schedule of
requirements:
Use Spaces Required
Use                                                                               Spaces Required
Assembly halls, convention halls, exhibition halls, auditoriums, coliseum, field  1 for each 4 fixed seats, and 1 for each 60 square feet of assembly floor
houses, lecture halls, theaters, stadiums and any other places of indoor or       space where the seats are not fixed, with a minimum of 4
outdoor assembly
Automobile service stations                                                       1 for each 1,000 square feet of gross lot area, with a minimum of 2
Automobile washing stations                                                       4 reservoir spaces per washing stall
Barbershops and beauty shops                                                      1 for each chair, or 1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area, whichever
                                                                                  is greater, with a minimum of 2
Bowling alley                                                                     4 for each lane, with 1 per 300 square feet of gross floor area used for
                                                                                  other purposes
Childcare centers or nursery schools                                              2 for each 3 employees, plus 1 for each 6 children that the center is
                                                                                  licensed to accommodate
Churches, or places of worship                                                    1 for each 5 seats, at maximum capacity, with a minimum of 4
Cleaners, automatic self-help                                                     1 for each 2 washing or cleaning machines, or 1 for each 100 square feet
                                                                                  of gross floor area, whichever is the greater
Drive-in windows                                                                  4 per reservoir space
Dwellings:                                                                         
   Multiple-family                                                             2 per unit in the dwelling with a minimum of 4
   Single-family                                                               2
Group home                                                                        1 for each staff member calculated on the basis of the maximum on duty at
                                                                                  any 1 time, and 1 parking space for each 4 residents
Home occupation                                                                   2, if the occupation requires the customer or client to visit the
                                                                                  premises on a frequent basis
Hotels, transient                                                                 1 per 1,000 feet of gross floor area, or 1 per bedroom, whichever is the
                                                                                  greater
Libraries and art galleries                                                       1 for each 100 feet of floor area with the minimum of 2
Manufacturing, warehousing or wholesaling                                         ½ per each employee, calculated on the basis of maximum on duty at any 1
                                                                                  time
Medical clinics                                                                   1 for each 150 feet of gross floor area, with a minimum of 3
Mortuaries and funeral homes                                                      1 for each 100 square feet of gross floor area, or 1 for each 3 seats in
                                                                                  assembly area, whichever is greater, with a minimum of 3
Motels                                                                            1 per sleeping room
Office buildings                                                                  1 for each 400 square feet of gross floor area, with a minimum of 4
Passenger stations                                                                2 per 100 square feet of waiting area
Private clubs                                                                     Maximum combination of 1 for each 60 square feet of gross floor area and
                                                                                  1 for each 200 square feet of sleeping floor area
Public housing (low income)                                                       ½ per dwelling unit with a minimum of 2
Rest homes, philanthropic, rooming homes, asylums, hospitals, sanatoriums         1 for each 4 beds, or 1 for each bedroom, whichever is greater with a
                                                                                  minimum of 4
Restaurants                                                                       1 for each 4 seats provided for customer use, plus 1 per employee
Retail stores:                                                                     
   Retail shopping centers having gross leasable area of 25,000 square feet to 4.5 for each 1,000 square feet of gross leasable area
400,000 square feet
   Retail shopping centers having gross leasable area of 400,000 square feet or5 for each 1,000 square feet of gross leasable area
more
   Retail stores either freestanding or in a shopping center of less than 25,001 for each 200 square feet of floor area (unless otherwise specifically
square feet                                                                       mentioned herein)
Rooming or boarding houses, dormitories, fraternity or sorority houses            1 for each 200 square feel of gross floor area, or 1 per bedroom,
                                                                                  whichever is greater, with a minimum of 4
Schools:                                                                           
   Elementary or junior high                                                   1 for each classroom and each office, with a minimum of 4
   Other schools                                                               A maximum combination of 2 for each classroom, plus 1 for each 5
                                                                                  auditorium seats, plus 1 for each classroom seat, with a minimum of 4
Skating rinks                                                                     1 for each 100 square feet of gross floor area
 
   (C)   Physically disabled. In addition to the parking spaces required in
this section, parking for the physically disabled shall be provided in off
street parking facilities in the mode or manner prescribed in §
11-12-4 .
(Prior Code, § 11-12-3) (Ord. 2012-05, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 11-12-4 DEVELOPMENT AND USE OF PARKING SPACES.
   The development and maintenance of the premises for the parking of motor
vehicles shall be in compliance with the following.
   (A)   Reduction in number, size. Parking spaces as regulated herein shall
not be reduced in number or size.
   (B)   Ingress and egress. In all off street parking areas containing more
than three parking spaces, ingress and egress shall be provided in a manner
that will prevent vehicles from backing directly into the traffic lanes of any
street or highway.
   (C)   Surfacing. Parking spaces, driveways and approaches to parking spaces
and driveways shall be hard surfaced to prevent the raising of dust. Materials
approved to prevent the raising of dust are concrete, asphalt, paving stones
and brick.
   (D)   Lighting. All lights used to illuminate such parking spaces shall be
installed to prevent glare into abutting property.
   (E)   Location.
      (1)   Residential. Required parking spaces for property used for
residential purposes shall be located on the same lot as the principal building
or upon an adjoining lot.
      (2)   C-4 Central Business District. Required parking spaces for property
located in the C-4 Central Business District shall be located on the same lot
as the principal building or on an adjoining lot, except that if insufficient
space exists on the same or adjoining lot, all or part of the required parking
spaces may be located in any area permitting parking, within one-fourth of a
mile of the principal building measured along lines of public access from the
nearest boundary of the parking area to the building’s entrance. Provided,
however, that if more than fifty percent (50%) of the required parking spaces
are greater than one-eighth of a mile from the principal building measured
along lines of public access from the nearest boundary of the parking area to
the building’s entrance, the location and plan of operation of said parking
area shall be approved by the City Council after due hearing; and provided
further, that a copy of such approval, together with any conditions or
limitations attached thereto, shall be recorded with the County Register of
Deeds and shall be a covenant running with the land as long as the uses of the
premises require the parking. For the purposes of this section, lots separated
only by an alley, easement or street shall be considered as adjoining lots.
      (3)   Nonresidential. Required parking spaces for property other than
that used for residential purposes and that which is located in the C-4 Central
Business District shall be located on the same lot as the principal building or
on an adjoining lot, except that if insufficient space exists on the same or
adjoining lot, all or any part of the required parking spaces may be located in
any area permitting parking, within 300 feet of the principal building measured
along lines of public access from the nearest boundary of the parking area to
the principal building entrance without crossing an arterial street; provided
that the location and plan of operation of said parking area shall be approved
by the City Council after due hearing; and provided further, that a copy of
such approval, together with any conditions or limitations attached thereto,
shall be recorded with the County Register of Deeds, and shall be a covenant
running with the land as long as the uses of the premises require the parking.
For the purpose of this section, lots separated only by an alley, easement or
street shall be considered as adjoining lots.
   (F)   Considered part of site of principal building. Land designated as the
required parking area shall be considered as a part of the site of the
principal building and the certificate of occupancy for any such principal
building shall be valid only during such time as the required number of parking
spaces are provided in accordance with this section, and where the parking
spaces are on adjoining or lots other than the one upon which the principal use
is located, the certificate of occupancy shall so state and shall be recorded
in the Office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
   (G)   Joint use. Joint use of required parking space by nonconflicting uses
is to be encouraged and shall be permitted; provided that the maximum parking
demands of joint uses occur at nonoverlapping times. Joint use parking
facilities may carry a zoning designation of either principal use.
   (H)   Physically disabled parking. The number, size, location, signage and
the like, of physically disabled parking spaces shall comply with the Americans
with Disabilities Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., as well as all federal,
state and local laws, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 11-12-4) (Ord. 2012-05, passed 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 13: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-13-1   Purpose and objectives
   
11-13-2   Definitions
   
11-13-3   Bonding and licensing of contractors
   
11-13-4   Signs that do not require a permit
   
11-13-5   Prohibited signs
   
11-13-6   Permits and inspections
   
11-13-7   General regulations
   
11-13-8   Enforcement of sign regulations
   
11-13-9   Allowances by zoning district or special area
   
11-13-10   Allowances by supplemental zoning district
   
11-13-11   Size, location and other restrictions
   
11-13-12   Billboards
   
11-13-13   Off premises signs prohibited
   
11-13-14   Nonconforming signs
   
11-13-15   Review and appeal
§ 11-13-1 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Purpose. Standards are herein provided for the purpose of extending
land use regulations to the erection, construction, placement, replacement,
display, location and maintenance of signs and outdoor advertising media.
   (B)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To enhance the aesthetic quality of life for the citizens of the
City by promoting the reasonable, orderly and effective display of signs;
      (2)   To prohibit signs which create blight on the community, reducing
the value and desirability of surrounding property, inhibiting economic
development by creating a negative visual image of the City;
      (3)   To preserve and protect private and public property values and
civic beauty and prohibit signs which detract from this objective due to
excessive size, height, number or visual impact, or undesirable location,
maintenance, mobility, spacing or illumination;
      (4)   To establish standards which will permit businesses a reasonable
and equitable opportunity to advertise, but which will avoid excessive
competition and clutter among sign displays;
      (5)   To increase the safety of the drivers and pedestrians by ensuring
commercial signs do not compete with official traffic signs for their
attention;
      (6)   To protect the general public from damage and injury which may be
caused by the faulty and uncontrolled construction and use of signs within the
City;
      (7)   To provide for special regulations in areas which by nature or
location are unique to other areas of the City;
      (8)   To promote the general welfare of the City and its citizens by
preserving the cultural and business significance and architecture of Downtown
Enid by strengthening its visual identity and encouraging a central and unique
environment for marketing purposes;
      (9)   To provide for the preservation and enhancement of the Historic
Preservation District and to further the preservation and enhancement of
historic places;
      (10)   To provide for an equitable mechanism whereby those signs which
are nonconforming to this chapter can be removed;
      (11)   To prohibit additional billboards within the corporate limits of
the City but allow for the upgrading of existing billboards with new
technology; and
      (12)   To promote and maintain the visual attractiveness of the City
while encouraging economic growth.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-1) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-
5-2022)
§ 11-13-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-FRAME SIGN. A sign which is in the shape of an “A” or variation thereof,
located on the ground, easily movable, not permanently attached thereto and
which is usually two-sided.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which identifies an establishment, goods or services
which are no longer provided on the premises as advertised, or identifies a
time, event or purpose which has passed or no longer applies, or is vacant of
copy for a period of time as specified herein.
   ADDRESS AND/OR NAMEPLATE SIGN. A sign identifying the City assigned address
number and/or name of the business or residential occupant.
   ADVERTISING. Commercial messages on signs which does not include
noncommercial messages.
   ANIMATED OR MOVING SIGN. Any sign or part of a sign which changes physical
position by any movement or rotation.
   AUTOMATIC OR CHANGING SIGN. An electronically or electrically controlled
sign, which automatically changes the visible message copy on a preprogrammed
cycle through the use of illumination.
   AWNING OR CANOPY SIGN. A sign that is mounted or painted on, or attached to,
an awning or canopy such that the sign does not project above, below or beyond
the awning or canopy. See definition of “wall sign”.
   BALLOON SIGN. A temporary sign that consists of a nonporous bag, of a
variety of shapes and sizes, or envelope filled with heated air, a gas lighter
than air or air under pressure.
   BANNER SIGN. A temporary sign printed or displayed on cloth or other
flexible material, with or without frames.
   BILLBOARD. An off premises object, device, display, sign or structure, or
part thereof, displayed outdoors or visible from a public right-of-way, which
is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to any
message, idea, object, institution, business, organization, event, person,
place, commodity, product, service or entertainment conducted, sold, located,
manufactured, used or offered at a location other than the premises on which
the sign is located.
   BULLETIN BOARD SIGN. A sign that indicates the name of the entity on whose
premises it is located and which may contain the names of individuals connected
with it and general announcements of events or activities occurring at the
institution, or similar messages.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN; READER BOARD. A freestanding sign or integral part
thereof, consisting of nonstructural panels or individual message elements such
as letters, numbers or symbols, which are designed and intended for manual
replacement or alteration after the sign is erected.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign identifying a construction project
erected on the premises where construction is taking place, only during the
period of such construction, indicating the names of the architects, engineers,
landscape architects, contractors or similar artisans, and the owners, lending
institutions and other parties having a role or interest in the structure or
project.
   DECORATION. Illustration, symbol, flag, streamer, bunting, wreath, figure,
insignia or other devices employed to express and illustrate a message of
patriotic holiday or seasonal character.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign that directs the movement or placement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the premises where the sign is located.
   DISPLAY SURFACE. The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message is displayed or illustrated.
   DOUBLE FACED SIGN. Any sign with more than one display surface where only
one side is visible from any one direction. With DOUBLE FACED SIGNS, the full
sign is counted as a single sign, instead of the individual faces of the sign
being counted as separate signs.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER (EMC). An on premises sign that displays words,
symbols, figures or images that can be electronically changed by remote or
automatic means.
   ERECT. To construct or allow to be constructed.
   EVENT SIGNS. A sign displayed for the sole purpose of drawing attention to
an upcoming event or celebration. Some examples are streetlight banners,
banners, streamers and the like. Signs for special events regulated by Title 1,
Chapter 15 are not regulated under this title.
   FEATHER FLAG. A sign with or without characters, letters, illustrations or
ornamentations applied to cloth, paper, flexible plastic or fabric of any kind
with only such material for backing. FEATHER FLAGS are generally a single sign
attached to a support post and typically having a dimensional ratio of four
high to one wide. This definition also applies to teardrop flags, wind feather
flags, bow flags and other similar type signs.
   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign on which the artificial or reflected
light is not maintained stationary and constant in light intensity and color at
all times when in use.
   FOOT-CANDLE. The illuminance on a one square foot surface from a uniform
source of light.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. An accessory sign principally supported by a structure
affixed to the ground, and not supported by a building. FREESTANDING SIGNS
include signs supported by one or more columns, poles or braces placed in or
upon the ground and may not exceed 35 feet in height. This sign is intended to
identify an aggregate use of property or its primary use. When multiple signs
are attached to a FREESTANDING SIGN, all the signs will be considered a single
sign for permitting purposes.
   FRONTAGE. Any boundary line of a lot or parcel of land that coincides with
the right-of-way of the street.
   GAS ISLAND SIGN. A sign printed on paper, board or similar material and
placed on a pole or pump within a gas station island.
   GLARING SIGNS. Any sign employing direct, indirect, internal, flashing or
other illumination with light sources or reflectivity of such brightness that
constitutes a hazard to ground or air traffic or a nuisance.
   HANGING SIGNS. Any sign which is suspended from a building or from a canopy,
awning or other similar structure, over a designated pedestrian-way, and is
perpendicular to the building. The primary purpose of HANGING SIGNS is to
assist pedestrians in wayfinding and identification of businesses in a manner
that is true to the age of the Downtown Overlay District.
   IDENTIFICATION NAMEPLATE. A wall sign giving any combination of the name and
recognized symbol or logo of a building, business or establishment which is
attached to, and flat against, the wall of a building.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. Any sign erected or altered after the effective date of this
chapter not complying with the provisions thereof unless said provision was
expressly granted by a variance.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes, whether such
sources of illumination are a part of a sign or not.
   ILLUMINATION, DIRECT; INTERNAL ILLUMINATION. A light from a source concealed
or contained within the sign, and which becomes visible through a translucent
surface.
   ILLUMINATION, INDIRECT LIGHTING. Illumination which is performed by
spotlights or other lighting devices and which is not a part of the sign
proper. This definition includes those lighting devices which are extended from
the sign proper by means of a rod from which the illumination is directed
toward the display surface of the sign.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, and made a part of, a marquee. A MARQUEE
is defined as a permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building wall
at an entrance to a building or extending along, and projecting beyond, the
building’s wall and generally designed and constructed to provide protection
against the weather.
   MEMORIAL SIGN. A sign, tablet or plaque commemorating a person, event,
structure or site.
   MODULE SIGN. A wall sign other than an identification sign or identification
nameplate, which is formed of individual modules, which spell out the name or
nature of a business or the occupant of the premises.
   MOVING SIGN. A sign, all or part of which is animated, revolves, swings or
is otherwise designed to move by mechanical means or by the force of the wind.
   NIT. A brightness measurement of light whose standard is the amount of light
that one candle gives off in a square meter of area. The NIT is a unit of
measurement that is used for light given off in digital displays such as
computer screens, video games, electronic signs and other visual appliances.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE. Any material which does not ignite below 1,200°F or
disintegrate, melt or give off toxic odor or fumes.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which was lawfully erected, altered, moved or
maintained under previous ordinances of the City but does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   OFF PREMISES SIGN. Any sign, other than a billboard, which directs attention
to a business, establishment, commodity, service, entertainment or attraction
sold, offered or existing elsewhere than upon the same lot where such a sign is
displayed.
   OWNER. The fee owner of a sign, the lessee of the sign, the fee holder of
the property upon which the sign is located, the leaseholder of such property
or the individual, person or business who has purchased the copy on a sign, or
whose name appears on the sign.
   PALLET SIGN. A sign that consists of a portable platform used for storing or
stacking products, with or without a message attached thereto.
   PARAPET. Either the edge of the roof or the top of a wall, which forms the
top line of the building silhouette.
   PARCEL OF LAND. For the purpose of calculating street frontage, a parcel of
unplatted real estate or a platted lot. Where one lot fully encompasses a
building, only that lot will be used to calculate street frontage, even if
adjacent lots are owned by the same person or entity. Where a building or
attached structure permanently encroaches on a second lot, the lots will be
combined to determine the street frontage.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign which, by its physical nature, is designed for and
suitable for display longer than 90 days; the term includes all signs which
qualify as a “structure” in the Building Code.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign announcing or supporting political
candidates or issues in connection with any national, state, county or local
election.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign designed to be removable from one location to another
and not permanently attached to the ground or to any immobile structure, the
primary function of which is to provide advertisement of products or services
in connection with a business or activity located on the site of the portable
sign, or elsewhere. PORTABLE SIGNS may or may not be lighted internally, and
may or may not be mounted on a chassis with tires or wheels for transport from
one place to another on a trailer or other wheeled devices. A-frames; menu and
sandwich board signs; and balloons used as signs are other examples of PORTABLE
SIGNS.
   POSTER SIGN. A temporary sign printed on paper, cardboard or similar
material which is generally displayed in windows or attached to buildings, or
staked in the ground.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a banner, which is attached to, and is
wholly or partially dependent upon, a building for support and which projects
perpendicular to the wall or surface of the building.
   PUBLIC USE SIGN or PUBLIC SERVICE SIGN. A sign of a governmental nature
including public transit and public utility information, traffic control and
any other sign erected by a public officer in the performance of a public duty.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign pertaining to the sale, rental or lease
of the lot or tract of land on which the sign is located, or to the sale,
rental or lease of one or more structures.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign which is erected, constructed and maintained upon the roof
of any building, whose height does not exceed the crest of the roofline, and is
principally supported by the roof’s structure.
   SETBACK. Where a setback is required or provided for any sign, it shall be
measured horizontally from, and perpendicular to, the right-of-way line of a
street, or property line, to the nearest edge of the sign.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area which is clear of all structures or other sight
impediments formed by measuring back an equal distance along two intersecting
curb lines and connecting said points to form a triangle.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure or part thereof situated
outdoors which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract
attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business, product,
service, event or location by any means including words, letters, figures,
designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, motion, illumination or projected images.
The term SIGN includes, but is not limited to, every projecting sign, ground
sign, pole sign, window sign, vehicle sign, awning, canopy, marquee, changeable
copy sign, illuminated sign, flashing sign, animated sign, temporary sign,
portable sign, pennant, banner or streamer.
   SIGN AREA; AREA OF A SIGN; SIGNAGE. The entire area within a single
continuous perimeter of not more than eight straight lines enclosing the
extreme limits or writing, representation, emblem, icon, logo or any figure of
similar character, together with any material or color forming an integral part
of background of the display or used to differentiate such sign from the
backdrop or structure against which it is placed. In computing the AREA OF A
SIGN, standard mathematical formulas for common geometric shapes (triangle,
parallelogram, circle and ellipse or combinations thereof) shall be used.
   SIGN CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation involved in the
installation, repair, alteration and service of any electric sign, and all
permanent signs involving structural requirements of the Building Code and/or
electrical requirements of the Electrical Code.
   SIGN COPY. The letters, numbers, symbols or geometric shapes on a sign face
either in permanent or changeable form.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of a signboard, background area and structural trim
upon, against or through which a message is displayed or illustrated on the
sign.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The height of a sign, measured from ground level, at the base
of or below, the sign, to the highest edge of the sign.
   SIGN LOCATION. The site where one or more freestanding sign structures may
be erected.
   STORE FRONTAGE. The area visible to the public where public entrances,
display windows and other information is located. STORE FRONTAGE is not
regulated by road frontage and is considered separately when deciding linear
feet of STORE FRONTAGE.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The frontage which runs the length of a particular parcel
of land.
   STROBE. A flash lamp that produces high intensity, short duration light
pulses.
   STRUCTURE. Anything built or constructed whether or not permanently attached
to the ground.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign, banner or advertising display, usually constructed
of cloth, fabric, wood, paper or other light material with or without a frame,
and designed and intended to be displayed for a short period of time, typically
less than 90 days.
   UNUSED SIGN. See definition of “abandoned sign”.
   VARIANCE. A special ruling which does not require compliance with a specific
portion of this chapter.
   VEHICLE SIGN. Signs placed on or affixed to vehicles and/or trailers that
are parked on a public right-of-way, public property or private property so as
to be visible to the general public. However, this is not intended to include
window stickers for parking lots for example or company logos or wraps for
identification.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign painted on, or attached to and erected parallel to, the
face of, or erected and confined within the limits of, the outside wall of any
building and supported by such wall or building, and which displays only one
advertising surface. For the purpose of this chapter, the term WALL SIGN shall
include awning and canopy, identification, marquee and module signs.
   WIND RESISTANT OR SWINGER SIGN. A small accessory sign which is spring
mounted on a base which allows the sign to swing as wind pressure increases.
The definition does not include “A-frame signs”.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign painted on or placed inside or upon a window facing
the outside and which is intended to be seen from the exterior.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-2) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-
5-2022)
§ 11-13-3 BONDING AND LICENSING OF CONTRACTORS.
   Electric signs and all permanent signs, unless exempted under subsection (I)
below, shall be installed, repaired, altered and serviced, only by a sign
contractor licensed by the City, in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Application. Applications for sign contractors’ licenses or renewal of
licenses may be obtained from the Code Administration Office. The Code Official
shall, within 30 days of the date of application, approve or deny the
application or refer it back to the applicant in any instance where
insufficient information has been furnished. Each license issued shall be
assigned a number, which must then be recorded on all applications for sign
permits submitted by the license holder.
   (B)   Renewal. Sign contractors’ licenses shall expire on June 30 following
the date of issuance and shall be renewed annually. New licenses issued within
30 days before June 30 are exempt from renewal until the following year.
   (C)   Contracting firms. Employees of duly licensed sign contractors shall
not be required to obtain a license or pay a fee in order to engage in the work
of installing, repairing, altering or servicing signs in the regular course of
their employment with their duly licensed sign contractor.
   (D)   Vehicle identification. It shall be the duty of every sign contractor
licensed hereunder to have the firm’s name and license number displayed on the
side of all vehicles used in the operation of its business.
   (E)   Fees. Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license shall, at the
time of receiving such license, pay to the Office of the City Clerk an initial
license fee of $300, and an annual renewal fee of $75.
   (F)   Bond. No sign contractor’s license shall be issued until the applicant
therefor shall have deposited with the Office of the City Clerk a cash or
surety bond in the sum of $10,000. This sign contractor’s bond shall be
executed by the sign contractor, and the surety thereon shall be a corporate
surety company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be in
favor of the City and conditioned that the licensee shall faithfully and
properly conduct such sign contracting business in compliance with all the
ordinances of the City relating to signs and sign contractors, and for the
payment of all fines and penalties imposed for the violation of such laws, and
for the protection and indemnification of the City against all damages
resulting directly or indirectly from any injury to persons or property on
account of the negligence of the licensee or by reason of defects in the sign
construction. Such bond shall be renewed annually concurrently with the
license, and the certificate of such renewal shall be filed with the Code
Official.
   (G)   Insurance. No sign contractor’s license shall be issued until the
applicant therefor shall have filed a certificate of insurance as proof of
coverage for public liability and property damage in an aggregate amount of not
less than $500,000; for bodily injury or death of one person one accident; in
an amount not less than $125,000; for bodily injury or death to more than one
person in any one accident $250,000; and for property damage in the amount of
not less than $75,000 per incident; all arising out of work performed under a
contractor’s license. Such insurance shall be kept in full force throughout the
life of the license.
   (H)   Revocation of license. A sign contractor’s license may be revoked or
temporarily suspended by the Code Official upon notice in writing to the
licensee if it is found that the license was issued on the basis of relevant
information which was incorrect or misleading, or if the contractor has
violated any provision of this section. Such revocation or suspension action
shall be coordinated with the City’s legal staff.
   (I)   Exemptions. The following persons or firms are not required to obtain
a sign contractor’s license or bond, but shall comply with all other provisions
of this chapter:
      (1)   The manufacturer, assembler or maker of prefabricated or
preassembled sign parts, who does not perform operations other than sales
within the city limits;
      (2)   Persons who erect and maintain a freestanding sign, under six feet
tall, which is constructed entirely of masonry or wood materials, with
nonilluminated sign copy attached to the sign. If the sign is indirectly
lighted, all electrical work shall be performed by a licensed electrical
contractor;
      (3)   Persons who install a wall sign, 32 square feet or less, which is
constructed entirely of wood;
      (4)   Persons who paint a sign upon an existing building or sign
structure and such sign consisting of no structural components; and
      (5)   Persons who install, erect, move or maintain a sign not requiring a
permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-3) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-
5-2022)
§ 11-13-4 SIGNS THAT DO NOT REQUIRE A PERMIT.
   The following signs do not require a sign permit, unless the proposed sign
exceeds the standards specified below:
   (A)   Official flags that are no more than 50 square feet in area and 20
feet in height. Flag poles located in residential zoning districts shall not
exceed 25 feet in height. Flags located in all other zoning districts shall not
exceed the height limitations as specified in the air space control surfaces
plan;
   (B)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and the dates erected
and other memorial signs or plaques commemorating a person, event, structure or
site, when constructed of bronze or other noncombustible materials, that are no
more than 20 square feet in area;
   (C)   Bulletin board signs that are not illuminated and are no more than 20
square feet in area, for a public, charitable or religious institution, when
located on the premises of that institution;
   (D)   Signs mounted inside buildings not visible to pedestrians or motorists
beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon which they are located, or from
any public right-of-way, parking area or outdoor circulation area open to the
public;
   (E)   Street address numerals that are not more than 20 square feet in area;
   (F)   Scoreboards in athletic facilities;
   (G)   Directional signs displayed for the convenience of the public,
including signs identifying entrance and exit drives, parking areas, one-way
drives, restrooms, freight entrances, signs identifying parking spaces reserved
for the handicapped and other similar directional signs. Such signs shall be
limited in area to ten square feet;
   (H)   Public use signs including traffic control and street name signs,
community service information signs, public transit service signs, public
utility information signs, safety signs, danger signs and all signs erected by
a public officer in the performance of a public duty;
   (I)   No trespassing signs or other such signs regulating the use of
property (such as “no hunting”, “no fishing”) that are no more than eight
square feet in size;
   (J)   Construction signs that are no more than 50 square feet in sign area
in residential districts or 100 square feet in sign area in all other districts
with a limit of one sign per lot frontage;
   (K)   Home occupation signs or nameplates not more than four square feet in
area attached to the residential or accessory building, denoting only the name
of the occupant and/or the service provided;
   (L)   Vacancy signs for apartments, hotels and motels that are no more than
ten square feet in area. Such signs may be illuminated but the signs shall not
flash or cause a glare or have motion or animated parts;
   (M)   Temporary placards or posters (e.g., garage sale signs), not more than
four square feet in area with a limit of two signs on the property involved;
   (N)   Temporary decoration signs;
   (O)   Menu signs at drive-through and drive-in restaurants, when not
designed to be read from the public right-of-way, or to attract attention to
the site from the right-of-way. Such signs may be illuminated;
   (P)   The changing of the advertising copy or message on an existing
changeable copy sign or billboard;
   (Q)   The repainting, cleaning or other normal maintenance and repair of a
sign not involving structural changes or a change in size;
   (R)   Gas island signs no more than 32 inches by 48 inches with a limitation
of one sign per island. These signs may be double-sided;
   (S)   Sale and open house real estate signs and estate sales located on the
premises or private property;
   (T)   The Vance Air Force Base billboard signs no more than 400 square feet
and 35 feet in height with no part of the sign over hanging the public rights-
of-way. Such signs shall be limited in area to 400 square feet, 35 feet in
height and no part of the sign shall overhang the public right-of-way.
Installation and structural changes are required to be performed by a bonded
and licensed sign contractor;
   (U)   Political signs;
   (V)   A-frame signs;
   (W)   Window signs;
   (X)   Replacement of a face in a freestanding sign; and
   (Y)   Small gardening or crop signs traditionally used to designate the type
of plant, or the variety of seed used.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-4) (Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 11-13-5 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   The following signs are prohibited:
      (1)   Any sign that interferes with the flow of pedestrians on sidewalks;
      (2)   Flashing signs;
      (3)   Signs with strobes that are visible from the street;
      (4)   Pallet signs;
      (5)   New billboards;
      (6)   New off premises signs;
      (7)   Signs affixed to trees or utility poles or traffic devices; and
      (8)   Vehicle signs.
   (B)   Any prohibited sign is subject to removal and the owner of the sign
shall be subject to a fine of $200 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-5) (Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 11-13-6 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   Except as exempted in §
11-13-4, it shall be unlawful to display, erect, rebuild, expand or relocate
any sign without first filing with the Code Official an application in writing,
and obtaining a sign permit, in accordance with the following provisions. When
a sign permit has been issued by the Code Official, it shall be unlawful to
change, modify, alter or otherwise deviate from the terms or conditions of said
permit without prior approval of the Code Official. A written record of such
approval shall be entered upon the original permit application and maintained
in the files of the Code Official.
   (A)   Application. The application for a sign permit shall be made by the
owner or tenant of the property on which the sign is to be located, or his
authorized agent, or a sign contractor licensed by the City. Such applications
shall be made in writing on forms furnished by the Code Administration Office
and shall be signed by the applicant. The Code Official shall, within five
working days of the date of the application, either approve or deny the
application or refer the application back to the applicant in any instance
where insufficient information has been furnished. The application for a sign
permit shall be accompanied by the following plans and other written
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the property owner and
sign contractor including the contractor’s license number;
      (2)   Plans to scale showing the sign elevation indicating height,
overall dimensions, colors, materials and illumination and power requirements;
      (3)   A site plan indicating locations of all existing and proposed signs
on the site, which includes signage of any type that may have received a permit
but has not yet been erected. The site plan shall specify the height and
overall dimensions for all existing and proposed signs on site;
      (4)   A building facade outline or photograph indicating the location of
any existing or proposed signs to be attached to the building, which includes
signage of any type that may have previously received a permit but has not yet
been erected;
      (5)   The location by street address of the proposed sign structure;
      (6)   A statement of valuation; and
      (7)   Signature of the applicant.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a permit required by this
chapter shall, before receiving said permit, pay to the City a permit fee. A
fee shall not be charged for voluntary modification of an existing
nonconforming sign to bring such sign into conformance with this chapter,
although a permit must still be obtained for purposes of review to ensure
compliance with this chapter. The fee schedule is:
         (a)   EMC signs and freestanding signs: $100; and
         (b)   Wall signs and all other signs: $50.
      (2)   Starting work without a permit will result in the tripling of the
permit fee.
      (3)   Required inspections are covered by the permit fee with the
exception of signs that require an electrician. See §
11-3-6(D)(2) and §
11-3-7(D).
   (C)   Amendments. Approved amendments to permits involving changes in
location, sign type, electrification or increase in size, shall be subject to
the fee requirement as if the amendment were a new permit.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   All signs and operations requiring a permit shall constitute a new
sign for the purpose of this chapter. Footing inspections may shall be required
on the day of excavation for freestanding signs that are taller than 20 feet
high or larger than 100 square feet in size. The permit holder or authorized
agent shall notify the Code Official when any sign is complete and ready for
final inspection.
      (2)   Electrical inspections may be required separate from structural
inspection pursuant to §
11-3-7(D)(3). The fee for an electrical inspection is $50.
   (E)   Expiration. If construction of a sign is not commenced within 180
calendar days of approval of the permit, the permit shall expire and
construction may not occur. In the case of delays which are not a result of
willful acts or neglect of the permit holder, the Code Official may grant an
extension of time, provided all approvals thereof are in writing on the face of
the permit. Permit fees shall not be refunded for any expired permit.
   (F)   Revocation of sign permit. If the Code Official finds that work under
any sign permit issued is not in accordance with the information supplied in
the application or supplemental plans, or should there be any misrepresentation
in connection with the application for the permit, the applicant shall be
notified that the violation must be corrected within a specified period of time
authorized by the Code Official. If such correction is not made, the Code
Official shall revoke the permit and serve written notice thereof upon the
applicant. No person shall proceed with any part of such work after such notice
is received. Permit fees shall not be refunded for any revoked permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-6) (Ord. 2016-14, passed 6-7-2016; Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-
5-2022)
§ 11-13-7 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the following regulations apply.
   (A)   Location requirements. All signs are subject to the following general
location restrictions.
      (1)   No sign shall be maintained at any location where, by reason of its
position, size, shape or color, it may interfere with the view of, or be
confused with, any traffic control signs or signals, or where it may mislead or
confuse traffic.
      (2)   Signs and their supporting structures shall maintain clearance
from, and noninterference with, all aboveground and underground facilities and
conduits for water, sewer, gas, electricity or communications equipment and
lines and shall not interfere with surface or subsurface drainage.
      (3)   No sign shall be installed or erected, any part of which is on,
over or extended across any public right-of-way, alley, easement or any
vehicular driveway, unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
      (4)   Only public service signs shall be permitted on publicly owned
property, except Chisholm Trail Expo Center, David Allen Memorial Ballpark and
Kellet Park, if approved by the applicable public entity operating said
facilities.
      (5)   No sign may be attached to any tree, and only public service signs
may be attached to utility poles.
      (6)   No sign shall occupy a parking space required under the provisions
of
Chapter 12 of this title.
      (7)   No sign shall be erected, constructed or maintained so as to
obstruct any fire escape or any window or door, or opening used as a means of
egress. No sign shall be attached in any form, shape or manner to a fire
escape, nor be placed in such a manner as to interfere with an opening required
for legal ventilation.
   (B)   Sight triangle. No sign shall be located within a “sight triangle”,
except as specified below.
      (1)   No portion of any sign other than the pole or column shall be
permitted between the heights of three feet and seven feet, as measured from
the street grade.
      (2)   The area of the sight triangle shall be determined by the
characteristics of the street, drive, alley or railroad intersections by which
the triangle is formed.
         (a)   An uncontrolled intersection shall require a sight triangle,
clear of sight impediments, measuring 50 feet along the curb line of both
streets.
         (b)   A four-way controlled intersection shall require a sight
triangle measuring 20 feet along the curb line of both streets.
         (c)   A two-way controlled intersection shall require a sight triangle
measuring 20 feet along the curb line of the controlled street and 50 feet
along the curb line of the uncontrolled street. If the uncontrolled street has
a posted speed limit in excess of 35 mph, the sight triangle shall measure 70
feet along the curb line.
         (d)   The intersection of a drive or alley and a street shall require
a sight triangle measuring 20 feet along the drive or alley and 50 feet along
the street. If the posted speed limit on the street is in excess of 35 mph, the
sight triangle shall measure 70 feet along the curb line.
         (e)   The intersection of a street and a railroad shall require a
sight triangle measuring 70 feet along the railroad right-of-way line and 50
feet along the curb line of the street.
   (C)   Abandonment. If a sign advertises a business, time, event, purpose,
service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or activity
that is no longer operating or being offered or conducted, that sign shall be
considered abandoned and shall, within 30 days of such abandonment, be removed
by the sign owner, owner of the property where the sign is located or other
party having control over such sign.
      (1)   If the message portion of the sign is removed, leaving only the
supporting “shell” of a sign or the supporting braces, anchors or similar
components, the owner of the sign or the owner of the property where the sign
is located or other person having control over such sign shall, within 180 days
of the removal of the message portion of the sign, either replace the entire
message portion of the sign with a blank sign cover or remove the remaining
components of the sign. This subsection (C) shall not be construed to prevent
the changing of the message of a sign.
      (2)   If the projecting or wall sign from a business has been removed
leaving a shadowing effect behind on the building, the owner must power wash to
cover the shadowing from the previous sign within 30 days.
      (3)   Before a new sign permit will be issued, all previous signage from
the previous owner or occupant must be removed. This includes any shadowing.
   (D)   Electrical Code requirements.
      (1)   All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the
International Building Code and the Electrical Code of the City in effect at
the time the sign is erected.
      (2)   No sign shall have an overhead electrical system.
      (3)   Signs that use electricity will require an electric permit for the
electrical work. See §
2-6F-3(A). Obtaining this permit and the inspection is the responsibility of
the owner or the owner’s licensed electrician and not the sign contractor.
   (E)   Calculating sign area. The total aggregate sign area for a property
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Individual property. The total sign area for the aggregate of all
signs for any individual property shall be:
         (a)   Two square feet of sign area for each linear foot of frontage up
to 200 linear feet; and
         (b)   An additional ten square feet of signage for each additional 50
linear feet of frontage over 200 linear feet.
      (2)   Shopping centers or businesses that share square footage.
         (a)   One freestanding sign shall be allowed on the primary frontage
and one freestanding sign shall be allowed on each secondary frontage to
identify the entire complex and the stores within the complex.
         (b)   Total sign area for the overall complex is:
            1.   Two square feet of sign area for each linear foot of frontage
up to 200 linear feet; and
            2.   An additional ten square feet of signage for each additional
50 linear feet of frontage over 200 linear feet.
         (c)   Signs for each tenant shall not to exceed two square feet of
sign area for each linear foot of store frontage occupied. Each tenant shall be
allowed a minimum of 15 square feet of sign area and a maximum of 200 square
feet of sign area. If a tenant occupies a corner space, the sign area allowed
shall apply to each store frontage. Window signage will not be calculated into
the total allowable signage. In cases where a tenant’s store frontage is on the
interior of a building and that tenant has no external public entrance, the
interior store frontage will be used to calculate signage.
         (d)   A-frame signs will be allowed in the shopping center area as
long as they are along the pedestrian walkway on the interior of the shopping
center and not near parking spaces, roadways or byways, but shall not be left
outdoors except during business hours. These signs may not inhibit the flow of
pedestrian traffic throughout the shopping center or inhibit the flow of the
vehicular traffic in any way.
   (F)   Construction Code requirements.
      (1)   Compliance required. Generally, all signs shall comply with the
applicable current Building and Electrical Codes of the City.
      (2)   Design and construction. All signs shall be designed and
constructed to withstand wind pressures applied to the exposed area, allowing
for wind in any direction.
      (3)   Excavation and concrete foundations. All foundations shall conform
with the Building Code. Where foundation details have been presented or
required by the Code Official, each excavation shall be completed as shown on
the drawing with reinforcing steel in place. The Code Official shall be
notified immediately and no concrete shall be poured until the excavation and
reinforcing steel have been inspected by the Code Official.
      (4)   Supports. The use of used pipe or structural sections as columns
will be permitted when approved by the Code Official.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-7) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-
5-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see § 11-14-5(D)(3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 44-107.1
§ 11-13-8 ENFORCEMENT OF SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maintenance required. Every sign, including those in which no permits
or fees are required, shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and
structurally sound condition at all times. The owner of a sign not so
maintained shall be notified in writing from the Code Official and shall have
30 days to bring the maintenance of the sign up to compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Violation. Any sign which is not brought into compliance with this
chapter or removed within 30 days after the service of notice shall be
considered in violation of the provisions of this chapter and the owner of such
sign shall be subject to a fine of up to $200, plus court costs. Each day that
the sign remains in violation of this chapter, after the expiration of the 30
days, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Dangerous sign. If a sign poses an immediate danger to the public, the
notice period may be dispensed with and the City may declare the sign a
nuisance under Title 4, Chapter 4 and abate the nuisance. The cost will be
assessed against the owner of the sign.
   (D)   Impoundment. The Code Official or any police officer of the City may
cause to be removed without notice and impound any sign which has been
determined that it constitutes an immediate danger and threat to the public
health or safety. The City is not responsible for damages to a sign when
removal from the property is necessary.
   (E)   Recovery of sign. All impounded permanent signs shall be stored and,
upon proper identification thereof by its owner, may be redeemed upon the
payment of reasonable charges incurred by the City or its agents for removal,
transportation, storage and administrative costs resulting from the
impoundment. All permanent signs which are not redeemed within two months shall
be subject to disposal in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
unclaimed property. Temporary signs which are not redeemed within ten days
shall be destroyed and disposed of by the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-8) (Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 11-13-9 ALLOWANCES BY ZONING DISTRICT OR SPECIAL AREA.
   This section identifies the signs allowed within specific zoning districts.
   (A)   Identification signs in residential zoning districts.
      (1)   Subdivisions shall be permitted one freestanding sign or one wall
sign mounted on a subdivision screening wall for identification of the
subdivision for each street entry providing access to the subdivision. These
signs may not exceed 15 feet in height.
      (2)   Multi-family developments shall be permitted one freestanding sign
or one wall sign for identification of the development for each street entry.
One “for lease” wall sign with a maximum sign area of six square feet for each
street entry shall also be permitted.
      (3)   Identical identification signs on both sides of the access street
shall be considered one sign as long as they are not double faced and/or
visible from both directions of traffic.
      (4)   Single-family and duplex lots shall be permitted one wall sign to
identify the family name, property name or street address, not to exceed three
square feet in area for lots less than one acre and not to exceed six square
feet for lots over one acre.
      (5)   These signs must have a permit; but this permit will be at no cost
to the subdivision.
      (6)   Flashing identification signs are prohibited.
   (B)   Signs in commercial and industrial zoning districts.
      (1)   The purpose of signage in the commercial districts is for the
identification of business establishments, products and services available on
the premises. If located within a shopping center, the signs in that shopping
center should be aggregately displayed on one or more varying types of signs,
identifying the individual businesses located within a shopping center or the
shopping center name itself.
      (2)   The purpose of signage in industrial areas is for the
identification of the various manufacturing, assembling, warehousing and
services located on the premises.
      (3)   The following signs are allowed:
         (a)   Freestanding sign;
         (b)   Projecting sign;
         (c)   Wall sign;
         (d)   Window sign; and
         (e)   Wind resistant or “swinger” signs.
   (C)   Signs in agricultural districts. Non-flashing identification signs of
residences, farms and agricultural related uses may be freestanding or wall
signs.
      (1)   Only one such sign shall be permitted for each street frontage.
      (2)   All signs shall be for on premises use only.
      (3)   No individual sign shall exceed a maximum height of ten feet and a
maximum sign area of 48 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-9) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-
5-2022)
§ 11-13-10 ALLOWANCES BY SUPPLEMENTAL ZONING DISTRICT.
   This section identifies the signs allowed and the regulations within the
City’s Supplemental Zoning Districts found in Chapter 10 of this title.
   (A)   Planned unit development (PUD). A planned unit development is one
which is governed by the terms of a development plan once approved by the City
Council. Chapter 10, Article A of this title provides the specific regulations
for signs that are part of these developments.
   (B)   Enid Downtown Overlay District. This district is that portion of the
Central Business District bounded by Adams Street on the west, Elm Avenue on
the north, the railroad tracks on the east and a line contiguous with the
centerline of the east-west alley in block 4, Southside Addition extended east
to the railroad tracks and west to closed Adams Street on the south.
      (1)   Signs generally.
         (a)   All signs shall be aligned as much as possible along the single
block to form a unifying pattern.
         (b)   No flashing signs are allowed except signs which display time,
temperature and other general advertising information as long as the
information is displayed for a minimum of three seconds before changing.
         (c)   All signs which are illuminated shall be indirectly lighted, or,
if internal light sources are used, only the letters and not the background
shall be illuminated; except for those properties which directly abut Garriott
Road, in which case, internal light sources may illuminate the background.
         (d)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the placement of
noncommercial handbills or similar printed material temporarily displayed for
public information purposes.
      (2)   Wall signs. All wall signs shall be located and mounted so as not
to obscure architectural detail. Wall signs shall be limited in size to thirty
percent (30%) of the exterior wall to which the signs are attached.
      (3)   Projecting signs.
         (a)   The sign area is limited to one-half square foot per linear foot
of the exterior wall, to which the sign is attached.
         (b)   The maximum sign area permitted for any projecting sign shall
not exceed 32 square feet.
         (c)   No projecting sign shall extend more than four feet from the
building to which it is attached.
         (d)   Electrical and non-electrical signs that project or overhang a
pedestrian walkway shall maintain nine feet of clearance between the grade and
the bottom edge of the sign.
      (4)   A-frame signs. A-frame signs are allowed, but shall not be left
outdoors except during business hours. These signs may not inhibit the flow of
pedestrian traffic or vehicular traffic in any way.
      (5)   Freestanding signs.
         (a)   All freestanding signs are limited to a maximum of 20 feet in
height. The sign area shall be limited to one square foot per linear foot of
street frontage.
         (b)   Those freestanding signs located on properties which directly
abut Garriott Road are limited in size to no more than one square foot of sign
area per each linear foot of Garriott Road frontage up to 200 square feet of
sign area. Such signs shall be limited in height to no more than 25 feet.
      (6)   Temporary event streetlight banners.
         (a)   The purpose of these banners is to promote and inform the
community of an upcoming annual event or celebration which will occur in this
District.
         (b)   Proposed banners shall be reviewed by Main Street Enid, Inc. If
more than one person or organization desires to display streetlight banner,
approval shall be on a first come, first served basis from those who have
already received approval from Main Street Enid, Inc.
         (c)   The banners shall be secured to the streetlight poles in a
manner that is approved by the utility pole owner and shall resist an 80 mph
wind load. The bottom of the banner shall be at least seven feet above grade.
No banner shall interfere with traffic control devices, a sight triangle or use
of the public right-of-way.
         (d)   Banners may be displayed no earlier than 14 days prior to the
event and must be removed within 14 days following the event.
      (7)   Restoration.
         (a)   A sign that has been destroyed or a sign that has damage equal
to or more than fifty percent (50%) may be replaced or reconstructed to conform
to this title.
         (b)   A sign that has damage of less than fifty percent (50%) may be
replaced or reconstructed to its original condition except freestanding signs
which overhang or encroach into any right-of-way or sight triangle.
   (C)   Historic preservation districts.
      (1)   The purpose of the historic preservation districts is to designate,
preserve, protect and enhance those properties and structures within the
districts which reflect outstanding elements of the City’s heritage.
      (2)   Sign applications shall be reviewed by the Historic Preservation
District Commission before a permit issues. Provided, however, if the
Commission fails to act within 60 days, the approval process may be completed
without the Commission’s input.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-10) (Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 11-13-11 SIZE, LOCATION AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the following regulations apply.
   (A)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   Height. No freestanding sign shall exceed 35 feet in height.
      (2)   Clearance. All signs shall provide adequate free clearance so as
not to inhibit the orderly flow of pedestrian traffic.
         (a)   Both electrical and non-electrical signs, which overhang a
pedestrian walkway, shall a minimum clearance of nine feet above grade.
         (b)   No freestanding sign shall overhang any easement, right-of-way
or vehicular drive.
      (3)   Sign area.
         (a)   The maximum sign area shall be 150 square feet.
         (b)   One freestanding sign is allowed per frontage.
         (c)   Only one side of a two-sided sign will be used to compute the
total sign area of the sign.
      (4)   Sign spacing. No sign shall be placed within 50 feet of another
sign located at an adjacent business or property.
   (B)   Changeable copy signs.
      (1)   Only one side of a two-sided sign will be used to compute the total
sign area for a property.
      (2)   All signs shall provide adequate free clearance as specified in
subsection (A)(2) above.
   (C)   Electronic message center.
      (1)   Only one side of a two-side sign shall be included when computing
the total sign area for a property.
      (2)   The maximum size of a EMC is 72 feet.
      (3)   All signs shall provide adequate free clearance as specified in
subsection (A)(2) above.
      (4)   The sign message shall not have movement, or the appearance of an
optical illusion of movement, of any part of the sign structure, design or
pictorial segment of the sign, including the movement or appearance of movement
of any illumination or the flashing, scintillating or varying of light
intensity.
      (5)   The information displayed must be displayed for a minimum of three
seconds before changing and the sign shall not pulsate, flash, blink or cause a
glare.
      (6)   These signs shall not exceed the following standard:
         (a)   A brightness level of 0.3 foot-candle above ambient light when
measured with a foot-candle meter; and
         (b)   At a distance from the EMC which is the square root of the
number of square feet of the EMC multiplied by 100.
   (D)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Sign area. The combined total sign area permitted for wall signs
shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the exterior walls building facade to
which the signs are attached.
      (2)   Extension. Wall signs shall not extend beyond the outside perimeter
of the building to which they are attached. A wall sign may extend up to 18
inches over any public right-of-way, alley, easement or vehicular driveway.
      (3)   Clearance. The minimum clearance overhanging a pedestrian walkway
is nine feet.
   (E)   Projecting signs.
      (1)   Sign area. The total sign area for any projecting sign shall not
exceed one square foot per linear foot not to exceed 40 square feet of sign
area of the exterior wall to which it is attached.
      (2)   Number permitted. Only one projecting sign shall be permitted for
any individual building or occupancy.
      (3)   With wall signs. A projecting sign shall not be permitted on any
building to which a wall sign is attached.
      (4)   Extension. A projecting sign may extend up to eight feet from the
building to which it is attached. If the building is located on the property
line, the sign may extend up to eight feet over any public right-of-way,
easement or vehicular driveway, but no closer than two feet from the curb of
any public street or other right-of-way or alley.
      (5)   Clearance. The minimum clearance is nine feet.
   (F)   Window signs. Window signs do not need a permit. Said signs may not
flash, pulsate or cause glare, and if the sign is lighted, must remain lit for
at least five seconds.
   (G)   Wind resistant or “swinger” signs. These signs need a permit, but will
be at no cost to the business owner. Such signs shall not exceed 20 square feet
in sign area and shall be limited to one sign per 100 linear feet of street
frontage.
   (H)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   No sign shall be placed or displayed within the public right-of-
way or easement.
         (b)   No sign shall be placed so as to impair a sight triangle, the
visibility of intersections of streets, driveways and alleys.
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the maximum number of
temporary signs per property shall be one sign per frontage road or one sign
per 600 linear feet, whichever is greater.
         (d)   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, the maximum
size of temporary signs shall be eight square feet for residences and 32 square
feet on other property.
         (e)   Except as specifically provided herein, temporary signs may be
placed 24 hours prior to the commencement of the purpose for the sign and must
be removed 24 hours after the purpose for the sign has concluded.
      (2)   Event streetlight banners on U.S. Highway 412 and U.S. Highway 81.
         (a)   The purpose of these banners is to promote and inform the
community and public of an upcoming annual event or celebration.
         (b)   Permits for these banners may only be granted one per quarter or
four times per year. The permit shall be at no cost to the owner.
         (c)   A maximum of 16 streetlight banners shall be allowed on each
side of the highway per mile section. Approval shall be on a first come, first
served basis.
         (d)   The banners shall not exceed 16 square feet in area, with a
maximum of two banners per light pole.
         (e)   The banners shall be displayed no earlier than 14 days prior to
the event and shall be removed within 14 days following the event.
         (f)   The banners shall be secured to the streetlight poles in a
manner that is approved by the utility pole owner and shall resist an 80 mph
wind load. The bottom of the banner shall be at least nine feet above grade. No
banner shall interfere with traffic control devises, sight triangles or the
operation of the public right-of-way.
         (g)   The banners shall be made of materials commonly used for street
light banners.
      (3)   Other event signs, banners and feather signs.
         (a)   Feather signs. Because of the unique shape of feather flags, the
maximum size and number of signs allowed shall differ from other temporary
signs.
            1.   Feather flags shall not exceed eight feet in height and 27
inches in width.
            2.   The number of feather flags allowed per property shall be as
provided in subsection (H)(3)(b) below.
         (b)   The maximum square footage allowed for these signs is as
follows.
            1.   If the building’s frontage is 50 linear feet or less, 20
square feet of temporary signage is allowed. Additionally, one feather flag is
allowed.
            2.   If the building’s frontage is between 51 and 100 linear feet,
30 square feet of temporary event signage is allowed. Additionally, two feather
flags are allowed.
            3.   If the building’s frontage is between 101 and 200 linear feet,
40 square feet of temporary event signage is allowed. Additionally, three
feather flags are allowed.
            4.   If the building’s frontage is 201 linear feet or more, 50
square feet of temporary event signage is allowed. Additionally, four feather
flags are allowed.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-11) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-5-2019; Ord. 2022-08, passed
4-5-2022)
§ 11-13-12 BILLBOARDS.
   No additional billboards are allowed in the city limits. Billboards erected
on or before January 6, 2009, shall be considered nonconforming. Nonconforming
billboards shall be allowed to remain unless such sign is altered in a manner
that increases the degree of nonconformity, destroyed by calamity or is
abandoned for a period of more than two years. However, the upgrade of an
existing billboard with new technology, whether at the same or a new location,
is permissible and encouraged.
   (A)   The following regulations shall apply to the dimensions and location
of billboards.
      (1)   Height. The maximum height of any billboard shall not exceed 35
feet.
      (2)   Width. The maximum width of any sign shall not exceed 50 feet.
      (3)   Sign area. The maximum sign area for a billboard is 400 square
feet.
      (4)   Setbacks. No billboard shall be located less than 25 feet from any
property line abutting a street.
      (5)   Clearance. All signs shall provide adequate free clearance so as
not to inhibit the orderly flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
         (a)   The minimum clearance is nine feet.
         (b)   Signs overhanging a vehicular drive must have a clearance of 15
feet.
      (6)   Location. Billboards shall be located only along state or federal
highways within the City, with the exception of the Vance Billboards.
      (7)   Number. A maximum of four billboards shall be permitted per mile of
highway frontage. Each side of the highway shall be considered separately.
      (8)   Separation. A minimum of 500 feet shall be maintained between each
billboard sign.
      (9)   Color. The back of any billboard or any unused face of a billboard
must be painted a neutral color, such as: whites, browns, blacks, grays and
greens.
      (10)   Digital. Digital billboards should meet the following standards.
         (a)   The images must display for a minimum of six seconds and the
images must change instantaneously with no fade, dissolve or swipe effects.
         (b)   The sign shall not include any moving parts.
         (c)   The LED units must adjust to ambient light conditions via a
sensor.
         (d)   The illumination of a sign shall not exceed a brightness level
of 0.3 foot-candle above ambient light, as measured using a foot-candle meter
at the following pre-set distances from the base of the sign structure:
 
Sign Face           Distance from Base of Sign Structure
300—375 square fee150 feet
376—475 square fee200 feet
476—672 square fee250 feet
 
   (B)   The following type of billboards are prohibited:
      (1)   Moving billboards, that include, but are not limited to, these
features: pennants, flags, banners, streamers, propellers, disks and
searchlights;
      (2)   Flashing or glaring billboards;
      (3)   Inflatable billboards; and
      (4)   Roof billboards.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-12) (Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 11-13-13 OFF PREMISES SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   No new off premises signs shall be erected within the limits of the City.
Off premises signs erected on or before January 6, 2009, shall be considered
nonconforming. Nonconforming off premises signs shall be allowed to remain
unless such sign is altered in a manner that increases the degree of
nonconformity with the regulations above, is destroyed by calamity or is
abandoned for a period of more than two years.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-13) (Ord. 2022-08, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 11-13-14 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   In order to achieve the general purpose and objectives of this chapter, it
is necessary to provide for the removal or modification of signs which are not
in compliance with this chapter.
   (A)   It is the declared intent of the City to have all nonconforming signs
brought into conformity. If only a portion of a sign is nonconforming, that
portion of the sign may be brought into conformity by independent action of the
sign owner or user without the review and approval of any official of the City,
except where such activity involves structural or electrical alteration. Under
such circumstances, an appropriate permit must be obtained.
   (B)   Destruction by calamity:
      (1)   A sign that is destroyed or is damaged equal to or more than fifty
percent (50%) of its structural value, may be replaced or repaired but it must
conform to this chapter’s regulations; and
      (2)   A sign damaged by less than fifty percent (50%) of its structural
value, may be repaired without bringing the sign into conformity with this
chapter’s regulations, except any freestanding sign which overhangs or
encroaches into any right-of-way or sight triangle.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-14) (Ord. 2016-14, passed 6-7-2016; Ord. 2022-08, passed
4-5-2022)
§ 11-13-15 REVIEW AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Sign permit review. The Code Official of the City shall be authorized
to grant approval of sign permits. Approval shall be granted only after
appropriate reviews have occurred as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Appeal of sign regulation determination. When it is alleged that an
error in an order, requirement, decision or determination was made by an
administrative official in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, an
appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved to the Board of Adjustment in
accordance with Chapter 3 of this title.
   (C)   Variance from sign regulations. When a variance is requested to the
provisions of this chapter, the appeal for a variance shall be heard by the
Board of Adjustment. A variance may be granted only under the provisions
specified in §
11-3-7 (B).
   (D)   Review of sign regulations for specific economic development
opportunities.
      (1)   If the sign ordinance is perceived as an impediment to economic
development, specific cases may be brought before the City Council for review
and approval.
      (2)   The request for review must be submitted to the Community
Development Department 15 days prior to a meeting of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-15) (Ord. 2018-11, passed 3-20-2018; Ord. 2022-08, passed
4-5-2022)
CHAPTER 14: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-14-1   Uses by review
   
11-14-2   Nonconforming uses
   
11-14-3   Building permits
   
11-14-4   Certificates of occupancy
   
11-14-5   Exceptions
   
11-14-6   Ingress and egress from public streets; drive specifications
   
11-14-7   Open space, common areas or green areas
   
11-14-8   Storage and parking of motor vehicles
   
11-14-9   Drilling for oil or gas; annexed land
§ 11-14-1 USES BY REVIEW.
   (A)   Consideration of impact. The development and administration of this
title is based upon the division of the City into zoning districts within which
the uses of land and buildings are relatively uniform. It is recognized,
however, that there are occasions when, in addition to the principal permitted
uses, other uses, hereinafter referred to as “uses by review”, because of their
unique characteristics and because of the uniqueness of their proposed
location, may be allowed after careful consideration of the impact of the
particular uses upon the surrounding neighborhood and the public facilities
therein.
   (B)   Authorization. The Planning Commission may grant a use that is listed
under uses by review in a particular zoning district after a public hearing has
been conducted by said Commission.
   (C)   Conditions for authorization. No use by review shall be granted by the
Commission unless a determination has been made that the application meets the
following conditions.
      (1)   Effect on adjacent properties. The proposed use will not adversely
affect the use of adjoining or adjacent properties when operated in accordance
with all required conditions.
      (2)   Utility, drainage, parking design criteria. Adequate utility,
drainage, parking, loading, access and other design criteria shall be provided
in accordance with all standards and provisions of this code.
      (3)   Traffic impact. The proposed use shall not generate vehicular
traffic that is hazardous to, in conflict with or exceeds the existing and
anticipated traffic capacity of the transportation systems serving the area.
      (4)   Noxious or offensive emissions. Adequate safeguards shall be
proposed to limit noxious or offensive emissions, including noise, glare,
smoke, dust and odor.
      (5)   Industrial uses, required conditions. An application for an
industrial use shall also meet the following specific conditions.
         (a)   The use, manufacture or storage of potentially combustible,
explosive or hazardous materials has been reviewed and approved by the Fire
Marshal and other officials for compliance with applicable city, state and
federal regulations.
         (b)   The method of pretreatment, handling, storage and discharge of
wastewater, stormwater and any other effluent has been reviewed for compliance
with applicable city, state and federal regulations.
         (c)   The emission of air contaminants will be in compliance with
applicable city, state and federal regulations.
         (d)   Safeguards shall be required to limit noise pressure levels, be
it continual, intermittent or at a steady or random beat, at any pitch or
frequency, within the limits of levels commonly associated with uses permitted
by right in the zoning district.
         (e)   No heat, glare or vibration shall be detected from any location
beyond the property lines of the lot on which the use will be located.
         (f)   Safeguards shall be required to limit odors so as not adversely
impact the use of adjacent properties.
      (6)   Protection of public health and safety. Other conditions as may be
reasonably necessary to secure and protect the health, safety, comfort,
convenience and welfare of the public due to the characteristics of the
proposed use. In making its determination on an application for use by review,
the Commission may impose any requirements necessary to have said proposed use
meet the above conditions.
      (7)   Adult entertainment use. An application for an adult entertainment
use shall also meet the following specific conditions.
         (a)   Development criteria. Any person applying for use by review
approval to locate, remodel, alter, rebuild or relocate an adult entertainment
use within the City must state that said use will comply with the following
developmental criteria, as well as all other conditions contained within this
section, generally.
            1.   No use by review approval shall be granted for any proposed
location which is within a 1,000-foot radius of any other adult entertainment
use.
            2.   No adult entertainment use shall be allowed to locate within a
500-foot radius of any church, public or private school, or public or private
park, nor shall any adult entertainment use be allowed to locate within 500
feet of any area zoned for residential use.
            3.   All distances required to be met pursuant to this section
shall begin at the property line of the proposed use and are measured to the
nearest property line of the public or private school or park, church or
residentially zoned area, or any, adult entertainment use within the prescribed
distance, if any.
         (b)   First use deemed complying. In the event that any two or more
adult entertainment uses are located within 1,000 feet of each other as of
November 1, 1997, that adult entertainment use which shall have been first
operated shall be deemed the complying use. The person, firm or corporation, or
other entity responsible for the operation or management of the adult
entertainment use shall have the responsibility of establishing by documented
evidence the date on which such use first began continuous operation.
   (D)   Application for use. An application for a use by review shall be filed
with the Director of Community Development no later than ten days prior to the
date of the Planning Commission hearing. Any evidence as may be necessary to
enable the Planning Commission to properly consider the request should
accompany the application.
   (E)   Public notice. The subject property shall be posted with a notice or
notices indicating the time and place of the Planning Commission hearing. Said
notice shall be posted no later than seven days prior to the date of the
hearing. The property shall remain posted until a final decision has been made
concerning the application.
   (F)   Right of appeal. If the applicant or any other person wishes to appeal
the decision of the Planning Commission, he shall file a written application to
appear before the City Council. Said appeal shall be made to the Director of
Community Development no later than seven days after the date of the Planning
Commission hearing. The City Council shall then conduct a public hearing to
consider the application.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-1) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-14-2 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Buildings or structures.
      (1)   Continuation. A nonconforming building or structure lawfully
existing at the time this title became effective may be continued, except as
otherwise provided.
      (2)   Repairs and alterations. A nonconforming building or structure may
be repaired or altered, and any building, structure or portion thereof,
declared unsafe by the Building Inspector of the City, may be strengthened or
restored to a safe condition.
      (3)   Change of use. A nonconforming use of a building or structure may
be changed to a less objectionable use of a more restricted zone, but not to a
use of a less restrictive zone, nor shall a nonconforming use be changed to
another use of the same classification. When the use of a nonconforming
building or structure is hereafter changed to a use of a more restrictive zone,
such use thereafter shall not be changed to a use of a less restrictive zone.
      (4)   Discontinuance. If a nonconforming use of any building or structure
is discontinued, or its normal operation stopped for a period of one year, the
use of the building or structure shall thereafter conform to a use permitted in
the zone in which it is located.
      (5)   Destruction by calamity.
         (a)   No building which has been damaged by fire or other causes to
the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value shall be
repaired or rebuilt, except in conformity with this title.
         (b)   The owners of owner occupied single-family dwellings in I-2 and
I-3 zones which have been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more
than fifty percent (50%) of their replacement value may, if they desire to
rebuild, appeal to the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment may grant a
special exception under the terms of §
11-3-6(B)(3).
      (6)   Single-family residences in I-2 and I-3 zones, enlargement.
         (a)   Nonconforming single-family dwellings lawfully existing in I-
2 and I-3 zones at the time this title became effective may be structurally
enlarged upon application by owner occupant.
         (b)   The enclosed floor area of any structural enlargement shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of enclosed floor area existing at the time this
title became effective.
   (B)   Land.
      (1)   Continuation. A nonconforming use of land, where no building is
involved and where such use is the principal use, lawfully existing on the
effective date of this title may be continued, except as otherwise provided in
this title.
      (2)   Extension. A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded,
enlarged or extended in any way either on the same or adjoining properties.
      (3)   Termination or change of use. Where a nonconforming use of land, or
any portion thereof, is discontinued or changed, any future use of such land
shall be in conformity with this title.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-2) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-14-3 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required; information and documents. It shall be a violation of
this title for any person to change or permit the change in the use of land,
buildings or structures, or to erect, alter, move or improve any building or
structure in accordance with the Building Code until a building permit has been
obtained under the following conditions, and after providing the following
information and documentation:
      (1)   Plot plan. A plot plan legibly drawn to scale, showing the exact
size, shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the exact size and
location on the lot of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact
size and location on the lot of the structure or building proposed to be
repaired, altered, erected or moved; and the size, arrangement, number of
parking stalls, movement of vehicles and ingress and egress drives for all off
street parking and loading facilities;
      (2)   Declaration of use of land and buildings. A declaration of the
existing and intended use of each existing and proposed building or structure
on the lot and the number of families and housekeeping units which each
existing building accommodates and which each existing and proposed building is
designed to accommodate; and
      (3)   Additional information. Any additional information relating to the
proposed improvement needed to determine compliance with this title.
   (B)   Records kept. A careful record of such applications and plot plans
shall be kept in the Office of the Code Official.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-3) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-14-4 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Certificate required. No vacant land shall be occupied or used except
for agricultural uses, and no building erected or structurally altered shall be
occupied or used until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the
Code Official.
   (B)   Application; issuance. A certificate of occupancy for the use of
vacant land or to change any use thereof shall be applied for before any such
land shall be occupied or used, and a certificate of occupancy shall be issued
within three days after application has been made; provided that the use is in
conformity with the provisions of the ordinances of the City.
   (C)   Compliance with Building Code. The certificate of occupancy for the
use of the building shall be as provided by the Building Code of the City.
   (D)   Fee. No fee shall be charged for the original certificate of occupancy
issued in connection with construction of a building; for all other
certificates or copies of an original, there shall be a charge of $5 each.
   (E)   Excavation permit. No permit for excavation for any building shall be
issued before application has been made therefor.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-4) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-14-5 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Height exceptions. Hospitals, churches, schools and other places of
public assembly, when located in any zoning district, may exceed the height
limitations; provided that for each story by which the height of such building
exceeds the minimum height requirements, the side and rear yard requirement
shall be increased an additional two feet more than originally required.
   (B)   Area exceptions.
      (1)   Lots of record. A one-family dwelling may be constructed or moved
on any lot, in separate and different ownership from any lot immediately
adjoining.
      (2)   Reduction in lot area. No lot, existing and of record at the time
of the adoption of this title, shall be so reduced that the lot area shall be
smaller than prescribed by this title.
      (3)   Separation of lot. No lot shall be separated by ownership, if by
such action, the requirement of this title would be altered.
      (4)   Hospitals, churches, schools. Hospitals, churches, schools and
other places of public assembly shall not have a lot area less than 12,000
square feet.
   (C)   Yards.
      (1)   Existing alignment. When fifty percent (50%) or more of the lots on
the same side of the street and between intersections have a fairly uniform
front yard depth more or less than the required front yard depth, all buildings
hereafter erected in any such block on the same side of the street shall be
located as to conform with such uniform depth, unless its depth is controlled
by adjacent projecting buildings. For the purpose of this exception, a vacant
lot shall be assumed to have a front yard depth as required in the zoning
district in which it is located.
      (2)   Through lots. At each end of a through lot, there shall be a front
yard depth required by this title for the zoning district in which each street
frontage is located.
      (3)   Semidetached dwelling. For the purpose of side yard regulations,
the following dwellings with common party walls are considered as one building
occupying one lot: semidetached two-family and four-family dwellings, row
dwellings and group dwellings.
   (D)   Other exceptions.
      (1)   Side yards adjacent to public thoroughfare. A developer may
designate in a new platted subdivision, an area that is bounded on three sides
by a public thoroughfare to be lots having side yards of three feet on one side
and nine feet on the other, with a minimum of 12 feet between buildings.
      (2)   Filling station or pump location. No business which dispenses
liquid fuels to the public shall be permitted to locate a pump for said
purposes closer to any street or alley right-of-way line or property line than
15 feet, in any zoning district.
      (3)   Corner visibility. In all residential, agricultural and
neighborhood business zoning districts, no fence, wall, shrubbery, sign,
marquee or other obstruction to vision between the height of three feet and
seven feet above street level shall be permitted within the triangular area
formed within 45 feet of the intersection of the curb line of two streets or
railroad right-of-way line and a street curb line.
      (4)   Dwellings in commercial or special use district. Any dwellings
located in a commercial or special use district shall comply with all
regulations of the R-7 Multi-Family District.
      (5)   Corner lots. The side yard adjacent to a street shall have a width
of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the depth of the front yard. When this
side yard is used as a driveway entrance, the minimum depth of the drive shall
be 20 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-5) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980; Ord. 2009-26, passed
11-3-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
11-13-5(B)
§ 11-14-6 INGRESS AND EGRESS FROM PUBLIC STREETS; DRIVE SPECIFICATIONS.
   The location and size of any entrance or driveway leading from a public
street is subject to the following minimum conditions.
   (A)   A zones and all R zones.
      (1)   Maximum width of drive: 30 feet at property line;
      (2)   Minimum width of drive: Ten feet at property line; and
      (3)   Minimum radius to curb: Five feet.
   (B)   Common drive (A Zones and all R Zones). Maximum width of drive: 30
feet at front property line or 15 feet either side of the dividing lot line.
   (C)   Width. Maximum width of drive in all commercial and industrial zones:
40 feet at property line with a 15 foot minimum radius to the curb.
   (D)   Intersections and fire hydrants. No portion of any entrance or drive
leading from a public street shall be closer than 20 feet from the property
line at an intersecting street, nor three feet to a fire hydrant or catch
basin.
   (E)   Distance between drives. The minimum distance between drives at the
property line shall be ten feet.
   (F)   Property abutting arterial streets. All requested drives leading from
an arterial street, as designated by the City’s metropolitan area
transportation plan, must be as recommended by the City’s Traffic Committee.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-7) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-14-7 OPEN SPACE, COMMON AREAS OR GREEN AREAS.
   Land under individual or private, group or unit ownership may be used for
open recreational space in any zone when designated as open space, common area
or green area on a plat; provided:
   (A)   The agreements, provisions or covenants which govern the use,
maintenance and continued protection of the open space are submitted for
approval with the final plat; and
   (B)   Upon approval of the final plat, there is recorded in the Register of
Deed’s Office an easement, running with the land, to the person, unit or group
responsible for the maintenance of the area, limiting uses of such space to an
open area without buildings or structures for which a building permit is
required, and which easement shall not be revoked without consent of the City.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-7) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
§ 11-14-8 STORAGE AND PARKING OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Storage and parking of automobiles, recreational vehicles and commercial
vehicles shall not be permitted on any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot
located in a residential zoning district, except in accordance with the
provisions specified below.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACTIVELY SERVICING A PROPERTY. Active service to a property shall
include, but may not be limited to, pick ups and delivery, maintenance and
repairs being actively performed on the property.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with a maximum rated carrying capacity of
one and one-half tons used for commercial purposes. Any vehicle with
advertising or business designation affixed to it shall be considered a
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Also, special mobile equipment including, but not limited
to: ditch diggers, apparatuses, graders, scrapers, earthmoving equipment and
other commercial equipment.
      PRIVATE PASSENGER VEHICLE. An automobile, station wagon, van or truck
with a maximum rated capacity of one and one-half tons used exclusively as a
passenger vehicle and for hauling property of the owner and used to satisfy the
daily transportation needs of the inhabitants of the dwelling.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle not permanently fixed to the ground and
not designed to be permanently connected to utilities, including water and
sewer. Such vehicle can be self-propelled or towed on its own wheels or
transported on a trailer. Such vehicle is used primarily for hobby, vacation,
extended travel, camping, sports and/or aquatic use. Such vehicle is designed
for temporary occupancy only for such recreational use. For purposes of this
title, two-wheeled vehicles, whether self-propelled or human powered (i.e.,
motorcycles and bicycles), tents and camper shells mounted on the walls of the
cargo box of pickup trucks are not considered RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. For
purposes of this title, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES shall include motor homes and
converted buses, camping and travel trailers, collapsible camper trailers,
light duty utility trailers and transporters, horse and cattle trailers and
“off street” vehicles, including snowmobiles, dune buggies and all-terrain
vehicles with three wheels, boats and other watercraft with their trailers (a
boat trailer without a boat mounted on it shall be considered to be a
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   (B)   Commercial vehicles.
      (1)   Residential lots. Only one commercial vehicle, not exceeding one
and one-half tons’ rated capacity, shall be permitted on a lot occupied by a
dwelling or on a residentially zoned lot. Gardening, lawn tractors and
implements used exclusively for upkeep and maintenance of the lot are allowed
on a residential lot.
      (2)   Hauling explosives. In no case shall any commercial vehicle which
might be permitted in subsection (B)(1) above be used for hauling explosives,
gasoline or liquefied petroleum.
      (3)   Paved driveways. Unless actively servicing a property, any
commercial vehicle that is permitted in subsection (B)(1) above must be parked
on a paved driveway, or other hard surface as defined in §
11-12-4 (C), of the dwelling or residentially zoned lot.
      (4)   Parked in public street. In no case shall any commercial vehicle be
permitted to be parked, stored or idled in a public street or right-of-way
unless actively servicing the property.
      (5)   Hours. Except as provided herein, no commercial vehicle shall be
permitted to be parked, stored or idled in a public street or right-of-way
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (6)   Exceptions and limitations.
         (a)   Exceptions.
            1.   Residents who are required to drive a commercial vehicle to
and from their home may park a commercial vehicle in front of their residential
lot.
            2.   Residents who own and operate a home business may park a
commercial vehicle in front of their residential lot.
         (b)   Limitations.
            1.   Only one commercial vehicle per residence shall be allowed to
be parked in the street, regardless of how many occupants of the residence
drive commercial vehicles.
            2.   The allowed commercial vehicle shall not exceed eight feet in
height or 20 feet in length.
            3.   The allowed commercial vehicle shall not have a trailer
attached.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles. No more than three recreational vehicles shall
be parked or stored on any lot outside of the main or accessory buildings,
either temporarily or permanently. Of the three recreational vehicles allowed,
only one may be a motor home, converted bus, camping or travel trailer, or
collapsible camper trailer, utility trailer or transporter, horse or cattle
trailer, or any similarly used or sized vehicle. Of the three recreational
vehicles allowed, only one may be a boat or other watercraft, a trailer meant
for such boat or watercraft, or any similarly used or sized vehicle. For
purposes of this title, carports open on two or more sides shall not be
considered main or accessory buildings.
      (1)   No recreational vehicle shall be parked or stored in a manner that
would constitute a traffic hazard or shall be parked, idled or stored in a
public street or right-of-way.
      (2)   No recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping or
housekeeping purposes, except that one recreational vehicle shall be allowed
for occasional living purposes to accommodate visitors for no more than two
periods of not longer than 72 hours per calendar month.
      (3)   No recreational vehicle shall be parked in a front or side yard
unless parked on a paved driveway or other hard surface as defined in §
11-12-4(C).
   (D)   Private passenger vehicle.
      (1)   Prohibited parking. No private passenger vehicle shall be parked,
idled or stored in the front yard or side yard of any residence lying within an
agricultural, residential, commercial or industrial district or in the front
yard or side yard of any residentially zoned lot.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Vehicles parked within a designated parking area such as a
garage, carport or driveway; and
         (b)   Lots that have no access to an alley and have no paved driveway,
or other hard surface as defined in §
11-12-4(C).
      (3)   Temporary parking permit; disabled persons. Residents with special
circumstances such as those with disabilities may seek a temporary parking
permit from Code Administration. These permits shall be good for no longer than
one year and are personal to the resident requesting same.
   (E)   Violation. A violation of this section has a maximum penalty of $200
plus costs for a first offense, a maximum penalty of $300 plus costs for a
second offense and a maximum penalty of $500 plus costs for a third and
subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-8) (Ord. 2015-33, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 11-14-9 DRILLING FOR OIL OR GAS; ANNEXED LAND.
   Whenever any land or territory is annexed to the City and on the effective
date of such annexation the same is leased for oil and gas purposes, nothing in
the zoning regulations shall prohibit the drilling for the production of oil
and gas or other minerals on said premises under the lease in force upon said
annexation.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-9) (Ord. 80-29, passed 12-16-1980)
CHAPTER 15: TRANSFER OF DENSITY/INTENSITY OR DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS
Section
   
11-15-1   General description
   
11-15-2   Sending areas created
   
11-15-3   Receiving areas designated
   
11-15-4   Notice and hearing requirements
§ 11-15-1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City that landowners subject to development
restrictions in the sending areas should be provided regulatory incentives to
permanently restrict such lands from urbanization. 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq.,
authorizes the City to control the density of population through zoning. While
such regulations may be legally imposed where they further a legitimate public
purpose and are reasonable, the transfer of development rights provides a
vehicle to enable the private market to allocate economic benefits to
landowners in the restricted areas, thereby enhancing the viability of
businesses in the sending areas and avoiding potential legal disputes between
the private landowners and the City. This chapter establishes procedures for
transferring densities from sending to receiving parcels.
   (B)   The transfer of density/intensity or development rights (TOR) system
is based on the carrying capacity. In other words, a finite amount of
development is permitted in the areas within the sending and receiving zones.
The City is indifferent as to who does the development. Instead, it lets the
market decide the price. Accordingly, the accumulation of transfer rights is
related to the overall purpose of preserving resources in the area.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-1) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-15-2 SENDING AREAS CREATED.
   (A)   Severable development rights are hereby created in the sending areas
designated below.
   (B)   (1)   All sending areas are assigned development rights at the
following ratios:
 
Sending Area                             Development Rights That May Be
                                         Transferred
Clear zone, APZ I and APZ II of the      1 dwelling unit per gross acre and/or
Airfield Environs Overlay District (AED) 0.15 floor area ratio
 
      (2)   For purposes of this subsection (B), DEVELOPMENT RIGHT refers
solely and exclusively to development density or floor area that may be
transferred for development on another site, lot, parcel or portion thereof,
and not to development rights within a sending area. Nothing in this subsection
(B) shall be construed to limit, waive or exempt any development standards
applicable to the Airfield Environs Overlay District (AED), which standards
shall remain in full force and effect within the sending area.
   (C)   Documentation of compliance with the requirements for eligibility as a
sending area shall be submitted with a master development plan requesting a
rezoning to CIO.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-2) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-15-3 RECEIVING AREAS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   No severable development rights shall be exercised in conjunction with
the development of subdivision of any parcel of land that is not located in a
receiving area. A parcel of land that receives development rights pursuant to
this chapter shall be referred to as a “receiver site”. The following districts
located within the urban area boundary except for land located in the AED
zoning overlay designated on the urban area boundary map are hereby designed as
receiving areas for purposes of transferring severable development rights: CIO
(commercial incentive overlay).
   (B)   Sending areas and receiver sites may be designated on the same lot or
parcel, or on separate parcels, whether under the same ownership or common
ownership.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-3) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 11-15-4 NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any proposed transfer of development rights from the sending area or to the
receiver site shall be subject to the notice and hearing requirements of 11
O.S. § 43-104.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-4) (Ord. 04-02, passed 1-6-2004)
CHAPTER 16: RESIDENTIAL CARPORTS AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
Section
   
11-16-1   Definitions
   
11-16-2   Exemption
   
11-16-3   General standards and size for accessory buildings
   
11-16-4   General standards for carports
   
11-16-5   Violation
§ 11-16-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building or structure which is subordinate to the
principal building, serves a purpose clearly incidental and related to the
principal building and located on the same lot as the principal building. An
ACCESSORY BUILDING may include, but is not limited to, a detached garage,
storage building, playhouse or greenhouse.
   CARPORT. A permanently roofed structure, open on at least two sides,
designed for occupancy by a private passenger vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-1) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-16-2 EXEMPTION.
   Section 11-16-3 does not apply to property zoned R-6 (Mobile Home Park), R-
7 (Residential Multi-Family) or residentially zoned property on lots greater
than one acre in size, excepting subsections (A) and (B) of said section.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-2) (Ord. 2020-14, passed 7-21-2020)
§ 11-16-3 GENERAL STANDARDS AND SIZE FOR ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, place or construct an accessory building on a
residentially zoned lot, in whole or in part, without first obtaining a
building permit. An application for a permit shall be made by the owner or
lessee of the residential property, or by an agent of either, or by a licensed
contractor employed in connection with the proposed work.
   (B)   All accessory buildings shall be constructed, erected or installed in
accordance with the building, electrical and other codes adopted by the City.
   (C)   No accessory building shall be constructed, erected or placed on a
residentially zoned lot of an acre or less unless permitted by this chapter.
However, existing nonconforming accessory buildings, constructed prior to
November 1, 2015, may be repaired consistent with the provisions of §
11-14-2.
   (D)   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a residential lot
until the construction of the principal building has actually commenced.
   (E)   No accessory building may be constructed, placed or erected on a
vacant lot but an existing nonconforming accessory building may continue to be
used even if it is the only structure on the lot.
   (F)   All accessory buildings, except those smaller than 650 square feet,
must be on a permanent foundation.
   (G)   An accessory building may not be used as a residence.
   (H)   Where the primary building does not include a garage, a detached
garage will not be considered an accessory building for purposes of this
section, except for subsections (A) and (B) above. However, this does not apply
to a lot where the primary building had a garage, but the garage has been
converted to another use.
   (I)   The total square footage of multiple accessory buildings may not
exceed the square footage allowed for the applicable lot size under subsection
(N) or (O) below.
   (J)   The minimum distance between an accessory building and the side lot
line shall be five feet. The minimum distance between an accessory building and
the rear lot line shall be five feet.
   (K)   Accessory buildings shall be located behind the rear wall of the
principal building on the lot.
   (L)   Accessory buildings shall not exceed 25 feet in height, measured to
the top of the side wall fascia.
   (M)   The maximum overhead door height shall not exceed 15 feet, measured
from to the top of the side wall fascia.
   (N)   On lots less than one-fourth acre, the total square footage for all
accessory buildings shall not exceed 900 square feet.
   (O)   On lots one-fourth acre up to one acre, the total square footage for
all accessory buildings shall not exceed 1,600 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-3) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015; Ord. 2020-14, passed
7-21-2020)
§ 11-16-4 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR CARPORTS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, place or construct a carport on a residentially
zoned lot, in whole or in part, without first obtaining a building permit. An
application for a permit shall be made by the owner or lessee of the
residential property, or by an agent of either, or by a licensed contractor
employed in connection with the proposed work.
   (B)   Carports shall be located only over an existing driveway unless
otherwise allowed by this chapter.
   (C)   Carports shall be constructed, erected or installed in accordance with
the building, electrical and other codes adopted by the City and which may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   Carports shall have an architectural design and appearance compatible
with the principal building on the premises and shall be kept in an attractive
state, in good repair and in a safe and sanitary condition.
   (E)   No carport shall be constructed, erected or placed on a residentially
zoned lot unless permitted by this chapter. However, if an existing carport was
legally constructed prior to November 1, 2015, reconstruction or renovation of
such carport shall be permitted; provided that such reconstruction or
renovation occurs only on the original footprint of the carport. No carport
shall be permitted to be enlarged or expanded unless the carport complies with
this chapter.
   (F)   No carport shall be constructed upon a residential lot until the
construction of the principal building has actually commenced.
   (G)   No more than one carport shall be allowed on a lot and shall be no
larger than 12 feet in width for a single car width driveway or 24 feet in
width for a double car width driveway. Under no circumstance shall any carport
exceed 24 feet in width, measured from eave line to eave line. No carport shall
exceed 15 feet in height at its highest point.
   (H)   The minimum distance between a carport and the side lot line shall be
five feet. The minimum distance between a carport and the rear lot line shall
be five feet. The minimum distance between a carport and the front lot line
shall be 25 feet.
   (I)   Carports located entirely in the back yard of a residence need not be
placed over a driveway.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-4) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 11-16-5 VIOLATION.
   The violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of up to $100
plus costs and fees. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-5) (Ord. 2015-30, passed 9-15-2015)
CHAPTER 17: FENCES
Section
   
11-17-1   Definitions
   
11-17-2   Materials
   
11-17-3   Retaining walls
   
11-17-4   Setbacks and view restrictions
   
11-17-5   Vacant lots
   
11-17-6   General standards and regulations
   
11-17-7   Front yard fences
   
11-17-8   Side or rear yard fences
   
11-17-9   Preexisting fences
   
11-17-10   Violation
§ 11-17-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FRONT YARD FENCES. A fence located within the required front yard area for
all zoning districts, or continuous with or in front of the front wall of the
principal building on the site. It shall be considered as a structure and
subject to the regulations of the city building regulations.
   SIDE OR REAR YARD FENCES. A fence located behind the front wall of the
principal building on the site. It shall be considered as a structure and
subject to the regulations of the city building regulations.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area of the SIGHT TRIANGLE shall be determined by the
characteristics of the street, drive, alley or railroad intersections by which
the triangle is formed.
      (1)   An uncontrolled intersection shall require a SIGHT TRIANGLE, clear
of sight impediments, measuring 50 feet along the curb line of both streets.
      (2)   A four-way controlled intersection shall require a SIGHT TRIANGLE
measuring 20 feet along the curb line of both streets.
      (3)   A two-way controlled intersection shall require a SIGHT TRIANGLE
measuring 20 feet along the curb line of the controlled street and 50 feet
along the curb line of the uncontrolled street. If the uncontrolled street has
a posted speed limit in excess of 35 mph, the SIGHT TRIANGLE shall measure 70
feet along the curb line of the uncontrolled street.
      (4)   The intersection of a drive or alley and a street shall require a
SIGHT TRIANGLE measuring 20 feet along the drive or alley and 50 feet along the
street. If the posted speed limit on the street is in excess of 35 mph, the
SIGHT TRIANGLE shall measure 70 feet along the curb line of the street.
      (5)   The intersection of a street and a railroad shall require a SIGHT
TRIANGLE measuring 70 feet along the railroad right-of-way line and 50 feet
along the curb line of the street.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-1) (Ord. 2015-32, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 11-17-2 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Only picket, vinyl, split rail, chainlink, decorative wrought iron (or
galvanized steel, aluminum or similar material having the appearance of),
ribbed or corrugated metal panels, stone, brick, stucco or specialty concrete
block shall be permitted. Collar activated, radio, wireless or other electronic
pet containment systems are allowed.
   (B)   Metal pieces, garage or other door panels, plywood sheets or other
material not commonly used for fencing shall not be allowed in any zoning
district. Barbed, chicken wire, hot wire or electric strand(s) fences shall not
be allowed except in agricultural or industrial zoning districts.
   (C)   The architectural design and materials used shall harmonize with the
main building to which the fence is accessory.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-2) (Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-23-2017)
§ 11-17-3 RETAINING WALLS.
   Retaining walls may be allowed to solve drainage or topographical problems.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-3) (Ord. 2015-32, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 11-17-4 SETBACKS AND VIEW RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Setbacks. Except as otherwise provided herein, the following setbacks
shall apply to fences:
      (1)   Minimum distances to front lot line: An eight-foot setback is
required if the fence is constructed with opaque or solid material exceeding
four feet in height. No setback shall be required for other fences;
      (2)   Minimum distance to side lot line: None; and
      (3)   Minimum distance to rear lot line: None.
   (B)   View restrictions.
      (1)   Fences shall not cause a view obstruction.
      (2)   Hedges or other vegetation used as a barrier or in a manner similar
to a fence shall not cause a view obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-4) (Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-23-2017)
§ 11-17-5 VACANT LOTS.
   Except for properties zoned agriculture, fencing shall not be allowed on
vacant lots.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-5) (Ord. 2015-32, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 11-17-6 GENERAL STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, place or construct a fence, in whole or in
part, without first obtaining a building permit. An application for a permit
shall be made by the owner or lessee, or by an agent or either, or by a
licensed contractor employed in connection with the proposed work.
   (B)   Fences shall not obstruct any public walkway, even if said public
walkway is on private property.
   (C)   Fences shall not obstruct any public right-of-way.
   (D)   Fences shall not obstruct any drainage easement, even if said drainage
easement is on private property.
   (E)   Fences shall not obstruct the “sight triangle”, as defined in §
11-17-1.
   (F)   Metal fences shall be capped on the top edge and level with or below
the ground on the bottom.
   (G)   Fences shall be kept in good repair and in a safe condition at all
times by the property owner and/or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-6) (Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-23-2017)
§ 11-17-7 FRONT YARD FENCES.
   (A)   Spiked caps or spears shall not be used on pickets under five and one-
half feet in height.
   (B)   No front yard fence shall be erected within 25 feet of the
intersection of any public or private street.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-7) (Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-23-2017)
§ 11-17-8 SIDE OR REAR YARD FENCES.
   Spiked caps or spears shall not be used on pickets under five and one-half
feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-8) (Ord. 2015-32, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 11-17-9 PREEXISTING FENCES.
   (A)   Preexisting fences legally constructed prior to November 1, 2015,
shall be allowed to remain unless such fence constitutes a traffic hazard,
blocks or restricts the visibility of motorists or pedestrians, or constitutes
a hazard to the general health, safety and welfare of the public.
   (B)   All preexisting fences shall be maintained in good condition and shall
not be structurally altered or expanded in any manner which increases the
degree of nonconformity with this chapter.
   (C)   A fence which is destroyed or in a state of ruin or decay equal to
more than fifty percent (50%) of its value, as determined by the Code Official,
may be replaced or reconstructed to conform to this title at the option of the
owner of the fence. A fence which is destroyed or in a state of ruin or decay
equal to forty-nine percent (49%) or less of its value, as determined by the
Code Official, may be repaired to its original condition at the option of the
owner of the fence.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-9) (Ord. 2015-32, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 11-17-10 VIOLATION.
   The violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of up to $100
plus costs and fees. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-10) (Ord. 2015-32, passed 10-20-2015)
TITLE 12: LAND DEVELOPMENT
   Chapter
      
1.    GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
      
2.    GENERAL PLATTING PROCEDURES
      
3.    LOT SPLITS
      
4.    PRELIMINARY PLAT
      
5.    FINAL PLAT
      
6.    LAND DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS
      
7.    REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
      
8.    CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Section
   
12-1-1   Citation
   
12-1-2   Interpretation and purpose
   
12-1-3   Scope
   
12-1-4   Administrative agency
   
12-1-5   Application of regulations
   
12-1-6   Definitions
   
12-1-7   Enforcement
   
12-1-8   Variances
   
12-1-9   Denial of building permit for noncompliance
§ 12-1-1 CITATION.
   This title shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Ordinance of
the City”.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-1-2 INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall
be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare. To protect the public, among other purposes, such
provisions are intended to provide for a permanently wholesome community
environment, adequate municipal services and safe streets.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-1-3 SCOPE.
   This title shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision created and recorded prior to October 1, 1998, nor is it intended
by this title to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or interfere with
existing provisions of other laws or ordinances, except those specifically
repealed by this title, or with private restrictions placed upon property
running with the land. Where this title imposes a greater restriction upon land
than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of law, ordinance,
contract or deed, the provisions of this title shall control.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-1-4 ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY.
   In accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances of the City, the
provisions of this title shall be administered by the City through its
Community Development Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-1-5 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Except as provided in this title:
   (A)   Conformity of subdivision. No person shall subdivide any tract of land
which is located within the City, except in conformity with the provisions of
this title; and
   (B)   Exemption. Plats containing not more than three lots may be exempted
from the provisions of all or part of the procedural regulations in Chapter 2
of this title, upon written approval of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-1-6 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights-of-way, public
walks, parks or greenspace, rural land or drainage channels or a combination
thereof.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line or lines denoting the area within
which buildings or structures may be erected.
   CITY. The City of Enid, Garfield County, Oklahoma.
   CITY COMMISSION. The City Council, the governing body of the City of Enid.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A comprehensive plan prepared by the Planning Commission
which indicates the general locations recommended for the various functional
classes of public works, places and structures and for the general physical
development of the City and includes any unit or part of such plan separately
adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   LAND USE PLAN. The map established by the City showing the streets, highways
and parks theretofore laid out, adopted and established by law, and any
amendments thereto adopted by the City or additions thereto resulting from the
approval of subdivision plats by the Planning Commission and the subsequent
filing of such approved plats.
   LOT. Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one building,
or a group of buildings, and its buildings and uses, including such open space
as required by this title or other laws or regulations, and having its
principal frontage on a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut for their full
lengths on a street; provided that the interior angle at the intersection of
such sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two nonintersecting sides abutting on two or more streets.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this title.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Metropolitan Area Planning Commission of the City.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record, with necessary affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and
with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots, and blocks,
streets, alleys, public areas and other divisions of land.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the
character and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   SIDEWALKS. Accessible pathways intended for pedestrian traffic only.
   STORM FREQUENCY (Q). A stormwater flow determination based upon full
development discharge, unless otherwise noted.
   STREETS AND ALLEYS.
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which gives a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. An arterial street especially designated for
through traffic, entrance into which, at intersections, is or may be limited by
requiring all entering vehicles to be brought to a complete stop.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor streets
to arterial streets, including the principal entrance streets of a residential
development and streets for circulation within such a development.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC or DEAD END STREET. A minor street with only one outlet.
      (5)   LIMITED ACCESS STREET or FRONTAGE ROAD. The auxiliary service road
located and running parallel to the arterial highways.
      (6)   MINOR COLLECTOR STREET. A street that carries traffic from minor
streets to collector streets.
      (7)   MINOR OR LOCAL STREET. A street used primarily for access to the
abutting properties.
      (8)   STREET. Any public right-of-way which affords the primary means of
vehicular access to abutting property or provides for the movement of vehicular
traffic through or adjacent to the subdivision.
      (9)   STREET ROADWAY. The portion of the street available for vehicular
traffic, and, where curbs are laid, the portion from face to face of curbs.
      (10)   STREET WIDTH. The length of the shortest distance between the
lines delineating the right-of-way.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under this
title to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division of land into two or more lots, parcels, tracts or
areas, any one of which, when divided, has an area of less than ten acres, or
any division of land involving the vacation or dedication or right-of-way or
alignment of an existing or proposed street or highway or public utility
easement, or the resubdivision of land heretofore divided into lots, sites or
parcels. The term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context,
shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 12-1-7 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Public improvements. The City hereby defines its policy to be that the
City will withhold all public improvements of whatsoever nature, including the
maintenance of streets and the furnishing of sewerage facilities and water
service from all subdivisions which have not been approved, and from all areas
dedicated to the public which have not been accepted by the City, in the manner
prescribed herein.
   (B)   Revision of plat after approval. No changes, erasures, modifications
or revisions shall be made in any plat of a subdivision after approval has been
given by the Planning Commission and endorsed in writing on the plat, unless
the said plat is first resubmitted to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Filing fees.
      (1)   Preliminary plat. The subdivider shall pay a filing fee of $50 for
every preliminary plat submitted to the Planning Commission for approval.
      (2)   Final plat. The fee shall be $100 for every final plat submitted to
the Planning Commission for approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-1-8 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances; findings. The Planning Commission may recommend a variance
from this title when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance. In recommending any variance, the Planning Commission shall
prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to, or desirable for, the
public interest. In making its findings, as required hereinbelow, the Planning
Commission shall take into account the nature of proposed use of land and the
existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work
in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision
upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless
the Planning Commission finds that:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said proper is
situated; and
      (4)   The modifications have been requested in writing by the subdivider
stating the reasons for each modification and that the variance is approved by
a majority of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Planned unit development (PUD); findings. The Planning Commission may
recommend a variance from this title in case of a plan for a planned unit
development (PUD), which, in the judgment of the Planning Commission, provides
adequate public space and includes provisions for efficient circulation, light
and air and other needs. In making its findings, as required below, the
Planning Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of
land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to
reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the
proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. The Planning
Commission shall find that:
      (1)   The proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable
community development; and
      (2)   The proposed project will be in harmony with adjacent areas.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Generally. Application for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
the consideration of the Planning Commission. The petition shall state fully
the grounds for the application and all the facts relied upon by the
petitioner.
      (2)   Planned unit development. Application for any such variance shall
be made in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed for the consideration of the Planning Commission, stating fully and
clearly all facts relied upon by the petitioner and shall be supplemented with
maps, plans or other additional data which may aid the Planning Commission in
the analysis of the proposed project. The plans for such development shall
include such covenants, restrictions or other legal provisions necessary to
guarantee the full achievement of the plan.
      (3)   Patio homes, townhouses and/or all housing. Land zoned or proposed
to be zoned for patio homes, townhouses and/or other all housing shall be
platted to comply with city zoning regulations.
      (4)   Mobile home parks and mobile home neighborhoods. Plats for
subdivisions intended for mobile home parks or mobile home neighborhoods shall
comply with the requirements of Title 9, Chapter 12, and in case of conflict
between said Title 9, Chapter 12 and this title, said Title 9, Chapter 12 shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 12-1-9 DENIAL OF BUILDING PERMIT FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement or alteration of any existing structure on any tract of land which
does not comply with all of the provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-9) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
CHAPTER 2: GENERAL PLATTING PROCEDURES
Section
   
12-2-1   Preliminary plat
   
12-2-2   Final plat
§ 12-2-1 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Contents. The preliminary plat shall show, on a map, all the facts
needed to enable the Planning Commission to determine whether the proposed
layout of the land in a subdivision is satisfactory from the standpoint of
public interest.
   (B)   Preparation. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered
engineer or licensed land surveyor registered in the state.
   (C)   Filing. The subdivider, two weeks prior to the Planning Commission
meeting at which consideration is desired, shall file an application for
preliminary approval with the city Community Development Department and as many
copies of the preliminary plat as may be required by the department according
to the standards and other provisions of this title. The preliminary plat shall
be considered officially filed after it is received by the Planning
Administrator and is found to be in general compliance with the provisions of
this title.
   (D)   Review and approval.
      (1)   Review process. The Community Development Department shall, within
two days after the filing of the preliminary plat, transmit copies of the plat
for their study and recommendation to the:
         (a)   Director of Engineering Services;
         (b)   Public Works Director;
         (c)   Public Utilities Director;
         (d)   ADA Compliance and Risk Management Coordinator;
         (e)   Each company or agency furnishing electric, gas, telephone and
cable service; and
         (f)   Any other official body, company or agency as may be directed by
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Time requirement. The Planning Commission shall act on the
preliminary plat within 30 days after filing, unless such time is extended by
agreement with the subdivider or his agent, during which period it shall
receive a written report with the recommendation from each city official, body,
company or agency enumerated in subsection (D)(1) above. If no action is taken
by the Planning Commission within said 30 days after filing, or such longer
period as may have been agreed upon, the preliminary plat as filed shall be
deemed approved, and it shall be the duty of the secretary of the Planning
Commission to comply with subsection (D)(3)(a) below.
      (3)   Notice of action taken. The Planning Commission shall determine
whether the preliminary plat shall be approved, approved with modifications or
disapproved and shall give notice to the subdivider in the following manner.
         (a)   If approved, the secretary of the Planning Commission shall
affix his signature to the plat and attach a notation that it has received
preliminary approval and return it to the subdivider for compliance with final
approval requirements.
         (b)   If approved with modifications or disapproved, the secretary of
the Planning Commission shall attach to the plat a statement of the reasons for
such action and return it to the subdivider.
         (c)   In any case, a notation of the action taken, and requisite
reasons therefor, shall be entered in the records of the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Effect of approval. Approval of the preliminary plat by the
Planning Commission shall not constitute final acceptance of the subdivision by
the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Right of subdivider after approval. Preliminary approval shall
confer upon the subdivider the right for a one-year period from the date of
approval that the general terms and conditions under which the preliminary
approval was granted will not be changed.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-1) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 12-2-2 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Scope. The final plat will have incorporated all changes or
modifications required by the Planning Commission; otherwise, it shall conform
to the preliminary plat, and it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time; provided that such portion conforms with all the requirements of
this section.
   (B)   Preparation. The final plat shall be prepared by a registered engineer
or licensed land surveyor registered in the state.
   (C)   Filing.
      (1)   Required matter. After receiving notice of the action of the
Planning Commission approving the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
proceed to file with the Community Development Department:
         (a)   Copies of the final plat in the amount required by the Planning
Administrator;
         (b)   A written application for final approval; and
         (c)   Construction plans; cross-sections and profiles of streets, and
all other construction drawings related to water and sewer improvements to be
constructed in the subdivision.
      (2)   Time limits.
         (a)   The first final plat of a subdivision shall be filed not later
than one year after the date of approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise it
will be considered void unless an extension is requested in writing by the
subdivider and for good cause granted by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The final plat and accompanying plans shall be filed at least 14
days prior to the meeting at which it is to be considered. The final plat shall
be considered officially filed when it is received by the Planning
Administrator, and is found to be in general compliance with the provisions of
this title.
   (D)   Review and approval.
      (1)   Review process. Cross-sections, profiles and other construction
drawings shall be forwarded by the Community Development Department to the
appropriate city department for study and recommendations. The Department
shall, within two days after the filing of the final plat, transmit copies of
the plat for their study and recommendation to the:
         (a)   Director of Engineering Services;
         (b)   Public Works Director;
         (c)   Public Utilities Director;
         (d)   ADA Compliance and Risk Management Coordinator;
         (e)   Each company or agency furnishing electric, gas, telephone and
cable service; and
         (f)   Such other official body, company or agency as may be directed
by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Resubmittal. After receiving a written report from each city
official, company or agency enumerated in subsection (D)(1) above, the Planning
Administrator shall notify the subdivider of any recommended changes or
suggestions so that the subdivider may correct the final plat and submit same
for final approval.
      (3)   Time requirements. The final plat shall then be resubmitted prior
to the meeting at which the plan is to be considered by the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall act on the final plat within 60 days
after filing, unless such time is extended by agreement with the subdivider or
his agent. If no action is taken by the Planning Commission within said 60 days
after filing, or such longer period as may have been agreed upon, the final
plat shall be deemed approved, and it shall be the duty of the Planning
Commission Chairman to comply with subsection (D)(4)(a) below.
      (4)   Notice of action taken. The Planning Commission shall determine
whether the final plat shall be approved or disapproved and shall give notice
to the subdivider in the following manner.
         (a)   If approved, the Planning Commission Chairman shall affix his
signature to the plat and attach thereto a notation that it has received final
approval and return it to the Community Development Department for submission
to the City Council.
         (b)   If disapproved, the secretary of the Planning Commission shall
attach to the plat a statement of the reasons for such action and return it to
the Community Development Department for submission to the City Council.
         (c)   In any case, a notation of the action taken, and the requisite
reasons therefor, shall be entered in the records of the Planning Commission,
and the records and plat submitted to the City Council for consideration.
      (5)   Recording. Within six months after approval of the final plat by
the City, the subdivider shall record it in the Office of the County Clerk;
otherwise the final plat shall be considered void.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-2) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
CHAPTER 3: LOT SPLITS
Section
   
12-3-1   Authority
   
12-3-2   Definition
   
12-3-3   Approval procedure
   
12-3-4   Design review process
   
12-3-5   Survey preparation
   
12-3-6   Administrative review; fee
   
12-3-7   Guidelines for lot split approval
   
12-3-8   Certificate of approval
   
12-3-9   Policy for approval of additional lot splits
§ 12-3-1 AUTHORITY.
   The City’s Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, pursuant to the powers and
jurisdiction vested through 19 O.S. § 866.13, does hereby exercise the power
and authority to review, approve and disapprove transfers of land hereinafter
referred to as “lot splits”.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-3-2 DEFINITION.
   (A)   Term defined. A LOT SPLIT is herein defined as the subdivision of land
into no more than two lots, parcels, tracts or sites, any one of which when
divided has an area of ten acres or less and which does not require the
dedication, vacation or alignment of any right-of-way, easement or street,
under the regulations as would ordinarily be required when subdividing. A LOT
SPLIT would include all processes related to the conveyance of title by:
      (1)   Deed by metes and bounds description;
      (2)   Deed described by reference to an unapproved (preliminary) or
vacated plat; and
      (3)   Deed resulting from the adjustment of lot lines in an approved
plat.
   (B)   Classification. The classification of a proposed subdivision as a lot
split shall be limited to those instances where any public improvements
required as a condition of development, except for the extension of service to
individual lots, either have been provided or are not reasonably accessible.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-2) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-3-3 APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   Whenever any lot split is proposed, the applicant shall secure approval in
accordance with the following procedure:
   (A)   Design review process;
   (B)   Administrative review;
   (C)   Planning Commission approval; and
   (D)   Recording of deed(s).
(Prior Code, § 12-3-3) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-3-4 DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   A meeting is recommended between the Director of Community Development
and the applicant before the submittal of any proposed subdivision. The purpose
of the meeting is to determine the proper classification of the subdivision and
to provide technical assistance in the review of the proposal.
   (B)   Prior to design review, the applicant should prepare a development
sketch of the proposed subdivision consisting of those elements as outlined
below:
      (1)   The general dimensions of the existing lot and the lot(s) to be
created by the subdivision;
      (2)   The location of any rights-of-way or easements on or abutting the
lot;
      (3)   The location of any utilities on or abutting the lot; and
      (4)   The location of any structure or other improvements on the lot.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-4) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-3-5 SURVEY PREPARATION.
   (A)   Elements of survey. Prior to the submittal of an application for lot
split approval, the applicant shall cause to be prepared an accurate survey of
the tract. The survey shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered in the
state and shall contain the following elements:
      (1)   Dimensions of the existing lot and the dimensions of the proposed
lot(s) to be created by the lot split;
      (2)   The location and width of any streets or easements on or abutting
the lot; and
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all existing structures and any
other improvements, with their locations in relation to existing and proposed
lot lines.
   (B)   Authority to waive. The Director may waive the requirement for a
survey if the tract or parcel is void of any improvements or any other design
elements which would necessitate the need of an accurate boundary description.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-5) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-3-6 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW; FEE.
   Upon receipt of a lot survey, other supporting data and fee, the Director
shall review a lot split proposal for conformance with this title. To partially
defray the costs of administrative procedures, a fee of $10 shall be paid to
the City Clerk at the time of application submittal for lot split approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-6) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-3-7 GUIDELINES FOR LOT SPLIT APPROVAL.
   The approval or denial of a lot split shall be based upon the following
guidelines.
   (A)   Conformance with zoning regulations. Lot dimensions and area shall
conform to the zoning regulations of the City. No lot split shall be approved
which would create a nonconforming lot.
   (B)   Sewage disposal. Adequate provisions shall be made for the proper
disposal of sewage. Each lot created by a lot split shall have direct access to
a public sewer. A lot not served by a public sewer shall be of sufficient area
to properly accommodate an individual sewage disposal system. Any lot split
application which would create a lot of one acre or less shall be accompanied
by appropriate tests performed by an authorized representative of the County
Department of Environmental Quality, determining the proposed lot to be
suitable for an individual sewage disposal system.
   (C)   Water supply.
      (1)   Each lot created by a lot split shall have direct access to a
public water supply. A lot not served by a public water main shall be of
sufficient area to properly accommodate both a water well and an individual
sewage disposal system, if a public sewer is not available.
      (2)   Any lot split application which would create a lot of one acre or
less shall be accompanied by appropriate tests performed by an authorized
representative of the County Department of Environmental Quality, determining
the proposed lot to be suitable for both a water well and an individual sewage
disposal system, when a public sewer is not available.
   (D)   Access to utilities. No lot split shall be approved which would create
a lot without access to adjacent or adjoining public utilities.
   (E)   Access to streets. No lot split shall be approved which would create a
lot without frontage upon a public street.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-7) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-3-8 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   When a lot split has been approved by the Planning Commission, such approval
shall be shown by certification signed and dated by the Director on the
instrument of transfer. The applicant may then file the instrument with the
County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-8) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-3-9 POLICY FOR APPROVAL OF ADDITIONAL LOT SPLITS.
   If a lot, parcel or tract has previously been subdivided, any subsequent lot
split requests may be disapproved by the Planning Commission if, in the opinion
of the Commission, it is determined that the intent and purpose of the
subdivision regulations is being circumvented by the approval of any additional
lot splits, at which time platting shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-9) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
CHAPTER 4: PRELIMINARY PLAT
Section
   
12-4-1   Submittal
   
12-4-2   Planning assistance meeting
   
12-4-3   Form
   
12-4-4   Map contents
§ 12-4-1 SUBMITTAL.
   One electronic copy and ten copies of the preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the Community Development Department no later than two weeks prior
to the Planning Commission meeting in which the plat is to be considered. Late
submittals will be held until the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-1) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 12-4-2 PLANNING ASSISTANCE MEETING.
   A meeting is recommended between the City, the subdivider and the design
engineer prior to the preparation of the preliminary plat. The purpose of the
meeting is to discuss the proposed site and any special features, drainage
characteristics and utility services that may be unique and applicable to the
area. A detailed sketch of the proposed development should be prepared to
assist in the discussions. The absence of such a meeting may delay the review
and approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-2) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-4-3 FORM.
   The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn. The size of the
plat map shall not be less than 24 inches by 36 inches. All preliminary plats
shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet, unless otherwise
recommended by the Planning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-3) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-4-4 MAP CONTENTS.
   The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Description:
      (1)   The name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate, be the same
in spelling or alike in pronunciation with any other recorded subdivision in
the county;
      (2)   Names of adjacent and adjoining subdivisions and the owners of
adjoining parcels of unplatted land;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the subdivider, owner and engineer or
surveyor;
      (4)   Location by section, range, township, city, county, state; and
      (5)   Names of any streets adjoining the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Existing conditions:
      (1)   Boundaries of the subdivision indicated by a heavy line and the
approximate acreage;
      (2)   Location, width, and name of any existing or platted street,
railroad right-of-way, sidewalk, easement, park, permanent building, section or
corporate boundary; and
      (3)   Existing and proposed zoning of the subdivision and all adjoining
land.
   (C)   Survey data:
      (1)   Existing contours with intervals of not more than two feet;
elevations are to be based on sea level datum;
      (2)   Drainage channels, defined flood hazard areas, power transmission
poles and lines and any other significant physical characteristic; and
      (3)   Vicinity map.
   (D)   Drafting of plat: date of preparation, scale of map, north arrow; and
   (E)   Proposal:
      (1)   Location and principal dimensions for all proposed streets,
sidewalks, alleys, easements, lot lines and areas to be reserved for public
use;
      (2)   Provisions for water supply;
      (3)   Provisions for sewage disposal; and
      (4)   Provisions for drainage and flood control.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-4) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
CHAPTER 5: FINAL PLAT
Section
   
12-5-1   Submittal
   
12-5-2   Conformity
   
12-5-3   Form
   
12-5-4   Map contents
§ 12-5-1 SUBMITTAL.
   One electronic copy and ten copies of the final plat shall be submitted to
the Community Development Department no later than two weeks prior to the
Planning Commission meeting in which the plat is to be considered. In addition,
the number and type of construction plans shall be submitted as specified in §
12-8-2. The final plat shall be signed and sealed by a licensed land surveyor
registered in the state. Late or incomplete submittals will be held for the
next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 12-5-2 CONFORMITY.
   The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved by the
Planning Commission. Any major deviations will require the resubmittal of the
preliminary plat with the proposed deviations. This determination shall be made
by the Planning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-5-3 FORM.
   The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in India ink on tracing
cloth or Mylar. The size of the map shall not be less than 24 inches by 36
inches. All plats shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet, unless
otherwise recommended by the Planning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-3) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-5-4 MAP CONTENTS.
   (A)   Description:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision;
      (2)   Name of the subdivider, owner, engineer or surveyor; and
      (3)   Location by section, range, township, city, county, state.
   (B)   Existing conditions:
      (1)   All plat boundaries;
      (2)   Bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines,
section corners or other recognized monuments which shall be accurately
described on the plat;
      (3)   Municipal, township, city, county or section lines accurately tied
to the lines of the subdivision by distance and bearings; and
      (4)   Accurate location of all monuments.
   (C)   Survey data:
      (1)   Length of all arcs, radii, internal angles, points of curvature and
tangent bearings; and
      (2)   When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at
angles other than 90 degrees, width at the building lines shall be shown.
   (D)   Drafting of plat: date of preparation, scale of map, north arrow;
   (E)   Proposals:
      (1)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services and/or
utilities, and any limitations of such easements;
      (2)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths of feet and with bearings or angles to street and alley lines;
      (3)   Accurate outlines of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for
public use with the purpose indicated thereon; and
      (4)   Building setback lines, with dimensions.
   (F)   Title block information:
      (1)   Protective covenants shall be provided on separate recordable
instruments;
      (2)   Director of Engineering Services certificate as required;
      (3)   Certification shall be furnished from the City Clerk or County
Treasurer that all taxes and assessments have been paid on the land within the
proposed subdivision;
      (4)   Certification from the Planning Commission, and the City Council;
      (5)   Certification by a registered civil engineer or licensed land
surveyor to the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him and that
all monuments shown thereon actually exist, and that their location is
correctly shown;
      (6)   An acknowledgment by the owner or owners of his or their adoption
of the plat, and of the dedication of streets and other public areas; and
      (7)   All proposed lots shown on the plat shall be sequentially numbered,
according to the address system adopted by the City. Street addresses shall be
assigned by the Code Administration Department and shall be designated and
printed on each proposed lot. Each plat shall then include a caveat and a
disclaimer to read as follows: “Addresses shown on this plat are accurate as of
the time the plat was filed of record. Addresses are subject to change and
should never be relied upon in place of the legal description”.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-4) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
CHAPTER 6: LAND DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
12-6-1   Conformity with Comprehensive Plan elements
   
12-6-2   Streets
   
12-6-3   Alleys
   
12-6-4   Easements
   
12-6-5   Blocks
   
12-6-6   Lots
§ 12-6-1 CONFORMITY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ELEMENTS.
   The proposed subdivision shall conform to each element contained in the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-1) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-6-2 STREETS.
   (A)   Conformity. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets shall conform to the City’s most current approved
Comprehensive Plan and approved transportation plan and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to
public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed
uses of the land to be served by such streets, where not shown on the
transportation plan map, the arrangement and other design standards of streets
shall conform to the provisions found herein.
   (B)   Relation to adjoining street system. The arrangement of streets in a
new subdivision shall make provision for the continuation of the existing
streets in adjoining areas.
   (C)   Projection of streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in a new subdivision shall make provisions for the
proper projection of streets.
   (D)   Streets carried to property lines. When a new subdivision adjoins an
undeveloped parcel of land susceptible of being subdivided, then the new
streets shall be carried to the boundaries of the tract proposed to be
subdivided.
   (E)   Street jogs prohibited. Street jogs at intersections with centerline
offsets of less than 100 feet shall be avoided.
   (F)   Dead end street or cul-de-sac. Dead end streets or cul-de-sacs
designed to be so permanently, shall not be longer than 600 feet in length, and
shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having an outside roadway
diameter of at least 80 feet, and a street property line diameter of at least
100 feet. If a dead end street is of a temporary nature, a similar turnaround
shall be provided and provisions made for future extension of the street into
adjoining properties. If the cul-de-sac is less than 150 feet in length, the
turnaround may be omitted. Each turnaround may have a center island of not less
than 20 feet in diameter. Each island shall be approved with the final plat.
Approved islands will be curbed, and if unpaved, any plantings shall not
interfere with sight clearance.
   (G)   Arterial streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains within its
boundaries an arterial street which has not been improved to the design
standards specified in the City’s most current transportation plan, an accel-
decel turning lane shall be provided where any street within the subdivision
intersects the arterial street to afford separation of through and local
traffic. This requirement shall not apply to private residential drives.
   (H)   Local or minor streets. Local streets shall be so laid out that their
use by through traffic will be discouraged.
   (I)   Street right-of-way widths.
      (1)   Street widths shall not be less than as follows:
Street Type Width (Feet)
Street Type                 Width (Feet)
Arterial                    120
Collector                   80
Residential collector       60
Local, apartments           60
Local, all others           50
Cul-de-sac                  50
Frontage or marginal access 40
 
      (2)   In front of areas designated and zoned for commercial use, or where
a petition for a change in zoning is contemplated to permit such use, the
street width shall be increased by such amount on each side as may be deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission to assure the free flow of through traffic
without interference by parked vehicles and to provide safe parking space for
such commercial district.
   (J)   Intersections. The intersections of more than two streets at one point
shall be avoided, except where it is impracticable to secure a proper street
system otherwise. Streets shall intersect one another at an angle as near to a
right angle as possible, and no intersections of streets at angles less than 60
degrees shall be approved. Street intersections shall be rounded with a radius
of 25 feet measured at the face of curbs when the said intersection occurs at
right angles. If an intersection occurs at an angle other than a right angle,
it shall be rounded with a curve of a radius acceptable to the Planning
Commission. In commercial or industrial zoning districts, the Planning
Commission may permit comparable cutoffs or chords.
   (K)   Street deflections. When connecting street lines which connect between
intersections deflect from each other, they shall be connected by a curve with
a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than 200 feet.
   (L)   Reverse curves. A tangent shall be introduced between reverse curves
on arterial and collector streets sufficient to provide for the smooth flow of
traffic.
   (M)   Subdivision into tracts larger than ordinary building lots. Where a
tract is subdivided into larger parcels than are ordinarily permitted, such
parcels shall be arranged so as to allow the opening of future streets and
logical further resubdivision.
   (N)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited, except under conditions approved by the Planning Commission and
when such strips are owned by the City.
   (O)   Ingress and egress. Ingress and egress to residential property shall
not be provided on arterial streets.
   (P)   Street grades. No street grade shall be less than three-tenths of one
percent (0.3%), and shall not exceed eight percent (8%) or eleven percent (11%)
on local streets, with due allowance for reasonable vertical curves.
   (Q)   Railroad or highway abutting subdivision. Where a subdivision borders
on or contains a railroad right-of-way or limited access highway right-of-way,
the Planning Commission may require a street approximately parallel to, and on
each side of, such right-of-way, at a distance suitable for the appropriate use
of the intervening land, or for park purposes in residential districts, or for
commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distance shall
also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades and
future grade separations.
   (R)   Half-streets prohibited. Half-streets shall be prohibited, except
where essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity
with the other requirements of these regulations and where the Planning
Commission finds it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other
half when the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half-street is
adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be
platted within such tract.
   (S)   Street names and numbers. Names of new streets shall not duplicate
existing or platted street names unless a new street is a continuation of, or
in alignment with, the existing or platted street. All street names shall be
subject to approval by the Planning Commission. So far as practicable, street
names shall be grouped in categories and names within a category shall be used
in only one area of the City; streets which continue in a straight line shall
continue with the same name; streets which curve to the extent that they
intersect with other parallel streets shall have a separate name for that
portion of the street. House numbers shall be assigned by the Code
Administration Department of the City.
   (T)   Access to streets across ditches. The subdivider shall provide access
to all proposed streets, across all ditches, in a standard method approved by
the Director of Engineering Services.
   (U)   Vacation of streets. The Metropolitan Area Planning Commission shall
not recommend the vacation of any street or part of a street dedicated for
public use, if such vacation interferes with the uniformity of the existing
street pattern or any future street plan prepared for the area.
   (V)   Private streets. Public improvements shall not be approved for any
private street or drive, unless expressly recommended for approval by the
Metropolitan Area Planning Commission.
   (W)   Hardship to owners of adjoining property avoided. The street
arrangement shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining
property in platting their own land and providing convenient access to it.
   (X)   Street interval. In general, provisions should be made for through
streets at intervals not exceeding one-half mile along arterial streets.
   (Y)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required pursuant to §
10-7-1 and shall comply with §
12-8-7.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-3) (Ord. 2014-37, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 12-6-3 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Residential area. Alleys shall not be provided in residential areas,
unless expressly approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial districts. Alleys shall be provided in
commercial and industrial districts, except that the Planning Commission may
waive this requirement where other definite and assured provision is made for
service access, such as off street loading, unloading and parking consistent
with, and adequate for, the uses proposed.
   (C)   Width. The minimum right-of-way width of an alley shall be 24 feet.
   (D)   Dead end. Dead end alleys shall not be permitted, except the Planning
Commission may waive this requirement where such dead end alley is unavoidable
and where adequate turnaround facilities have been provided.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-3) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-6-4 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utilities. Easements with a right-of-way width of ten feet shall be
provided on each side of all rear lot lines and along certain side lot lines
where necessary for utilities. When restricted to one side of such line, the
easement shall be not less than 20 feet in width.
   (B)   Drainage. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement
or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such
watercourse, and such further width or construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the purpose of protecting private property from flood hazards.
Stormwater easements or drainage right-of-way shall be sufficient to include
all flooded area, shall provide ingress and egress together with adequate
working room for power driven maintenance equipment.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-4) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-6-5 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Factors governing dimensions. Block length and width or acreage within
bounding roads shall be such as to accommodate the size of lot required by the
zoning ordinance and to provide for convenient access, circulation, control and
safety of street traffic.
   (B)   Lengths. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,320 feet, or be less than
250 feet.
   (C)   Arrangement. A block shall normally be so designed as to provide two
tiers of lots.
   (D)   Pedestrian walkways. In blocks over 600 feet long, pedestrian
crosswalks may be required by the Planning Commission in locations deemed
necessary to public health, convenience and necessity. Such crosswalk shall be
ten feet wide and be straight from street to street.
   (E)   Sidewalks and curb ramps. Where sidewalks are provided, the blocks
must be designed to accommodate sidewalks and curb ramps with detectable
warnings consistent with §
12-8-7.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-5) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 12-6-6 LOTS.
   (A)   Dimensions. Lot dimensions and area shall not be less than the
requirements of the city zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Location. All lots shall abut their full frontage on a publicly
dedicated street or a street that has received the legal status as such.
   (C)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to
permit appropriate building setback from, and orientation to, both streets.
   (D)   Uninhabitable lots. Lots subject to flooding and lots deemed by the
Planning Commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential
occupancy, nor for such other uses as may increase danger to health, life or
property or aggravate the flood hazard, but such land within the plat shall be
set aside for such uses as shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional
inundation.
   (E)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of larger tracts must be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (F)   Space for public use. Where a proposed park, playground, school or
other public use designated on the Comprehensive Plan is located in whole or in
part within a subdivision, the subdivider shall reserve adequate space for such
purpose in such area within the subdivision when the Planning Commission finds
the requirement to be reasonably necessary to the public health and welfare of
the residents of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
CHAPTER 7: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
12-7-1   Guarantee in lieu of improvements
   
12-7-2   Specific improvements
   
12-7-3   Water supply
   
12-7-4   Sanitary sewer system
§ 12-7-1 GUARANTEE IN LIEU OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Before approval of a final plat, the Planning Commission must be satisfied
that all improvements required in this chapter have been constructed. In lieu
of the completion of the improvements, the subdivider may:
   (A)   Furnish a bond executed by a surety company authorized to do business
in the state, a cashier’s check payable to the City Clerk or a letter of credit
in forms prescribed by the City and issued by a bank or building and loan
company authorized to do business in the state, in an amount equal to the cost
of construction of the required improvements and conditioned upon the
completion of the improvements within 12 months after approval of the final
plat; or
   (B)   Ask for a conditional approval of the final plat, with the final
approval to be made upon completion of the improvements and which must be
completed within 12 months of the conditional approval. If a bond, cashier’s
check or letter of credit is given and the work is not completed within 12
months, the City shall obtain payment on the bond or use the funds from the
cashier’s check or from the letter of credit and complete the required
improvements. No building permit shall be issued by the Code Official for a
dwelling unit in the subdivision until the required improvements for such unit
have been constructed or such construction is guaranteed by a bond, cashier’s
check or letter of credit, and no certificate of occupancy shall be issued for
any such unit until the improvements required therefor are completed.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-1) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-7-2 SPECIFIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to the granting of final approval, the subdivider shall have installed
or shall have furnished adequate guarantee for the ultimate installation of the
following.
   (A)   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets, and at intermediate points as shall be
required by the Director of Engineering Services. The monuments shall be of
such material, size and length as may be approved by the City.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   Surfacing. All streets shall be surfaced in accordance with
applicable standard specifications of the City. Such construction shall be
subject to inspection and approval by the City.
      (2)   Curbs, gutters and drainage.
         (a)   Curbs, gutters, drainage and drainage structures shall be
provided in accordance with standard specifications of the City. Such
construction shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the City.
Primary drainage channels shall generally be open channels having a capacity to
carry the runoff from a rain of 50-year frequency with a minimum side slope of
three to one, and shall be sodded or have some other approved bank protection
designed to control erosion. Secondary drainage channels are to be either open
channels or enclosed storm sewers.
         (b)   Open channels shall be improved by providing a paved section
that will carry the runoff from a rainfall of 25-year frequency within the
lined section, or a cellular geocell confinement system minimum eight-foot
width placed in the bottom of the channel and a sodded section having maximum
side slopes of three to one, to carry the additional runoff from a rain of 50-
year frequency. Enclosed storm sewers shall be constructed of precast or
prefabricated pipe, or shall be built-in-place reinforced concrete boxes. Storm
sewers carrying runoff from streets are to be designed to serve a minimum ten-
year frequency rain and have an emergency overflow which will not inundate any
building pad from a rain of 100-year frequency. All flow across continuous
streets or alleys is to be through culverts or bridges sized to accommodate a
minimum 50-year frequency rainfall, without increasing the depth of upstream
flow in the primary or secondary channels. Drainage easements of satisfactory
width to provide working room for construction and maintenance are to be
provided for all improvements. The easements shall include all land having an
elevation below the 50-year maximum flood elevation for the final improved
channel. The maximum top of curb elevation along each lot shall be specified on
all subdivision plats when filed with the Planning Department to establish
front elevation lot gradients.
      (3)   Pavement width. The paved roadway width of all streets shall be
adequate to serve the existing and the estimated future traffic load for the
facility. The minimum width of residential streets providing for two-way
traffic shall be 26 feet between faces of curbs. Collector streets shall be
designed with traffic lanes not less than 12 feet in width.
      (4)   Driveway. All driveways which connect with public streets shall be
constructed in accordance with Standard Design of Driveway Entrances of
Oklahoma Highways, as prepared by the Oklahoma Department of Highways, see OAC
Title 730, Chapter 35, and in accordance with all city ordinances relative to
driveways. Where a driveway intersects a sidewalk, it shall not create a cross-
slope for the sidewalk of more than two percent (2%).
      (5)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks must be constructed consistent with §
12-8-7.
      (6)   Street name signs. Street name signs shall be placed at all street
intersections within or abutting the subdivision. Such signs shall be of a type
approved by the City and shall be placed in accordance with standards of the
City. For subdivisions within the City, the street name signs will be provided
by the City at no cost to the subdivider.
      (7)   Traffic control signs and devices. All traffic control signs and
devices shall comply with city standards. When a subdivision is within the city
limits, such signs and devices will be furnished by the City at no cost to the
subdivider. Where traffic lights are provided, audible signals must be
provided, except for industrial properties where there is no discernible
pedestrian presence and where sidewalks are not planned for the street running
parallel to the development.
      (8)   Lighting. All streetlight standards or posts shall be approved by
the City. For subdivisions within the city limits, streetlights will be
provided by the City at no cost to the subdivider.
      (9)   Street plantings. All unpaved areas in the public right-of-way
shall be seeded, sprigged or sodded to grass, or ground cover; no other
planting, placement or construction of any kind shall be done without a permit
from the Director of Engineering Services.
(Prior Code, § 12–7-3) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 12-7-3 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Plans; required connections to public water supply. All plans for
water supply and distribution shall be approved by the City. All water lines,
including hydrants, valves, service connections and the like, shall be
constructed by the subdivider at no cost to the City, except that when the
master water plan of the City requires pipeline sizes in excess of that
necessary to render adequate fire and domestic service to the subdivision, such
excess cost will be paid by the City if funding is available. The water supply
of the City shall be used and the laterals of the subdivision, connected to the
city water supply when the city water line is within 1,320 feet of any part of
the subdivision.
   (B)   Nonaccessible public water supply. In a proposed subdivision, pending
accessibility of a public water supply, that is, when the water lines of the
City are not within 1,320 feet of the subdivision, the subdivider may be
required to construct wells or a private water supply system in such manner
that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to every lot in the
subdivision at the time improvements are erected thereon. The adequacy,
healthfulness and potableness of the water supply shall be subject to the
approval of the Department of Environmental Quality and all construction shall
be subject to the approval of the Director of Engineering Services.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions;
fire hydrant standards shall be subject to the approval of the City’s Fire
Department and the Director of Engineering Services.
   (D)   As built plans. One set of as built plans and specifications for the
improvements herein required, certified and signed by an engineer registered in
the state, shall be filed with the Director of Engineering Services prior to
the acceptance by the City Council of any improvement installed by the
subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-3) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-7-4 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Plan preparation. Plans for the improvements herein required shall be
prepared by a qualified engineer, registered in the state. All sanitary sewer
improvements shall be constructed by the subdivider at no cost to the City,
except when the City requires sewer pipeline sizes in excess of that which is
necessary to serve the subdivision, the excess cost shall be paid by the City,
if funds are available. Two sets of prints of the proposed plans and
specifications for all improvements shall be filed with the Director of
Engineering Services.
   (B)   Public sanitary sewer accessible. Where a public sanitary sewer is
accessible, that is, when any portion of the subdivision is within 1,320 feet
of a sanitary sewer line, each lot within the subdivided area shall be provided
with a connection thereto. All connections shall be subject to the approval of
the Director of Engineering Services.
   (C)   As built plans. One set of as built plans and specifications for the
improvements herein required, certified and signed by an engineer registered in
the state, shall be filed with the Director of Engineering Services prior to
the acceptance by the City Council of any improvement installed by the
subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-4) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
CHAPTER 8: CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
Section
   
12-8-1   Grading plans, drainage improvements
   
12-8-2   Submittal
   
12-8-3   Street construction plans
   
12-8-4   Drainage construction plans
   
12-8-5   Sanitary sewer construction plans
   
12-8-6   Water distribution construction plans
   
12-8-7   Sidewalk construction plans
§ 12-8-1 GRADING PLANS, DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Approval. Before final plat approval, the grading plans for the total
area included in the preliminary plat with proposed streets, water
distribution, sewers layout and drainage improvements shall be submitted to,
and be approved by, the Director of Engineering Services.
   (B)   Earth changes. Earth changes for final plats shall be complete before
issuance of building permits.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-1) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-8-2 SUBMITTAL.
   One electronic copy and ten copies of the final plat, five copies of the
sanitary sewer construction plans, five copies of the water construction plans,
two copies of the construction plans and pay quantities for the street and
drainage improvements, two copies of the pay quantities for the sanitary sewer
and two copies of the pay quantities for the water shall be submitted to the
Community Development Department no later than two weeks prior to the Planning
Commission meeting at which the plat and plans are to be considered for
approval. The final plat shall be signed and sealed by a licensed land
surveyor, registered in the state, and the first page of each of the plans for
streets and drainage, water and sanitary sewer, shall be signed and sealed by a
registered professional engineer, registered in the state. Late submittals will
be held for the next meeting.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998; Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-
2009)
§ 12-8-3 STREET CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Design standards. Street design standards shall be in accordance with
city standards and as outlined in the following subsections.
   (B)   Right-of-way width. The right-of-way shown in table 1 (division (S)
below) shall be considered the minimum for paving, grading, sidewalks, street
utilities, maintenance, safety and possible pavement widening. When existing or
anticipated traffic or arterial streets warrant greater width, such widths
shall be required.
   (C)   Lane widths.
      (1)   Local. The 21-foot back to back minimum width is for areas which
allow for occasional standing vehicles where mandatory off street parking is
required. The pavement thickness for residential streets shall be a minimum of
five inches of portland cement concrete or a minimum of five inches of
asphalted concrete. The pavement thickness for commercial streets shall be a
minimum of six inches of portland cement concrete or a minimum of six inches of
asphalted concrete. Pavement sections for industrial development shall be as
recommended by the Director of Engineering Services.
      (2)   Collector.
         (a)   The pavement width of collectors should provide space for two
lanes of traffic, where they serve as principal entrance streets to a
residential development or for circulation in such a development, and be a
minimum width of 33 feet back to back. Where the density of land use increases,
the probability of curb parking and vehicle and pedestrian traffic also
increases; therefore, the 33 foot back to back width shall also be used for
multi-family, commercial or industrial uses.
         (b)   Where provisions are necessary to provide space for two lanes of
moving traffic plus accommodation for curb parking, 37-foot back to back width
is considered necessary to serve this function. The pavement thickness for
residential streets shall be a minimum of six inches of portland cement
concrete or a minimum of six inches of asphalted concrete.
   (D)   Right-of-way widths. The minimum right of way widths in any land
development shall be the minimums set forth in the table located in §
12-6-2(I).
   (E)   Type of curbs.
 
Collector 6-inch barrier curb
Local     6-inch barrier curb
Note to table: Where sidewalks are provided, curb ramps with detectable
warnings must be provided at each intersection consistent with §
12-8-7
 
   (F)   Street grades.
      (1)   Maximum street grade shall be eight percent (8%) (eleven percent
(11%) for local streets) and the minimum grade shall be three-tenths percent
(0.3%).
      (2)   Vertical curves shall be required where the algebraic difference in
grades is one percent (1%) or greater, with a minimum vertical curve length of
50 feet.
   (G)   Curb radii.
      (1)   Curb radius at intersection of residential streets:
 
25 foot radius Local to local
25 foot radius Collector to local
30 foot radius Local to arterial
30 foot radius Collector to arterial
 
      (2)   Curb radius at intersection of commercial or industrial streets:
 
Commercial 30 foot radius
Industrial 50 foot radius
 
   (H)   Horizontal alignment. Horizontal alignment shall provide either a 200-
foot sight distance or a 125-foot radius curve, utilizing whichever is greater.
   (I)   Street grades. The plans shall provide proposed grade and existing
grade of streets 200 feet beyond the end of improvements, if the street is to
be extended at a later date.
   (J)   Pad elevations. The plans and profile sheets shall show abutting lots
and finished contour lines or pad elevations.
   (K)   Scale. The scale on all plan and profile sheets shall be:
 
Horizontal 1 inch = 50 feet
Vertical   1 inch = 5 feet
 
   (L)   North arrow. The plans shall show the north arrow and scale on each
sheet.
   (M)   Street Improvement District. The plans shall show the Street
Improvement District (SID) number on all sheets. The SID number is assigned by
the Director of Engineering Services.
   (N)   Stationing. Stationing shall be shown on the plan and profile sheets
with a minimum of 100 foot stations on all street and drainage plans. The
stationing shall be shown on the plan view with a line running along the
centerline of the construction.
   (O)   Curb line slope. The slope between the back of the curb and four feet
behind the curb shall be plus or minus one-half inch per foot to one inch per
foot.
   (P)   Building line slope. The slope between the building line and four feet
behind the curb shall be less than, or equal to, seventeen percent (17%). Where
sidewalks are included, the slope must be adjusted to accommodate this feature.
   (Q)   Subgrade. The subgrade on all streets shall have a minimum AASHTO
rating of A-4 or better, as determined by a soils testing laboratory, and shall
be compacted to a ninety-five percent (95%) standard density. Other soil types
shall require sand or lime stabilization treatment as directed by the Director
of Engineering Services.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-3) (Ord. 2009-09, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 12-8-4 DRAINAGE CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   To facilitate review, the grading plan should have the drainage areas
delineated on it. The grading plan should also show the location and size of
each channel and structure and the applicable flow rates (Qs) to each. This
data does not need to be repeated on the street and channel construction plans,
but arrows denoting the direction of flow do need to be shown for all street
gutter flows.
   (A)   Engineering report. An engineer’s report shall be submitted for all
drainage. The report shall include:
      (1)   Drainage area (DA) at each structure;
      (2)   Flow rate (Q) at each structure and the computations leading to the
flow rate determination;
      (3)   Physical dimensions and hydraulic computations, nomographs cross-
sections and the like for each drainage structure and storm sewer;
      (4)   Physical dimensions and hydraulic computations, nomographs cross-
sections and the like for each drainage channel and for the gutter flows; and
      (5)   Where culverts and reinforced concrete boxes are designated, they
shall be in accordance with the Bureau of Public Road Circulars.
   (B)   Grading plan. The grading plan shall be to a minimum scale of one inch
equals 100 feet showing existing and proposed finished two-foot contours.
   (C)   Drainage on lots. Lots shall not be graded such that one lot does not
drain across more than two adjacent lots, before it reaches an improved channel
or street. A drainageway shall be constructed to intercept stormwaters, unless
the drainage from all lots is sloped to the abutting streets.
   (D)   Flow. On local and collector streets Q100 shall be less than, or equal
to, 18 inches above the gutter, but in no case shall the flow be within 12
inches of the finished building pad. The Q10 flow shall be less than, or equal
to, the depth of the curb. Q100 shall be less than curb height and shall not be
allowed to back up in the street. Maximum length of gutter flow shall be 1,000
feet.
   (E)   Flumes. Concrete flumes leading from streets where runoff is removed
from the streets:
      (1)   Shall be extended to the back of the lot or to intersect a main
drainage channel;
      (2)   Shall not run street flow across lots to deposit flow into another
street;
      (3)   Minimum flow shall be three and five-tenths feet per second (fps);
and
      (4)   Shall have a sufficient opening to preclude ponding in the street,
and the water surface elevation in the channel shall be less than, or equal to,
the water surface elevation in the street for the same rated storm.
   (F)   Storm sewers. Storm sewers shall:
      (1)   Carry as a minimum the Q10 flow from the streets;
      (2)   Have a velocity greater than, or equal to, three fps; and
      (3)   Have inlet computations and nomographs submitted in the engineer’s
report.
   (G)   Open channels (OC).
      (1)   Typical sections;
      (2)   Slope of channel;
      (3)   Profile and stationing of channel along centerline or cross-
sections;
      (4)   Erosion control (excelsior mat, enkamat, riprap, slab and the
like);
      (5)   Three fps velocity six fps for Bermuda grass lined channel;
      (6)   Maximum side slope on grass lines slopes shall be three to one;
      (7)   The existing flowline elevations shall be shown for a distance of
100 feet beyond the beginning and end of storm drainage; and
      (8)   Tempered steel (nine by nine at ten feet OC minimum) shall be
specified for concrete liners.
   (H)   Valley gutters. Valley gutters shall:
      (1)   Be constructed of portland cement concrete;
      (2)   Be 72 inches wide by nine inches thick;
      (3)   Have a rounded valley of a minimum of three-fourths inch deep;
      (4)   Always be used in conjunction with concrete fillets to carry flow
across asphaltic concrete pavement; and
      (5)   If specified between intersections, be twice the width of the flume
it drains to, or ten feet wide, whichever is greater, and seven inches thick.
   (I)   Manning’s “n”.
      (1)   Grass lined channel, n=0.030;
      (2)   Concrete lined channel, n=0.015;
      (3)   Reinforced concrete pipe (RCP), n=0.013; and
      (4)   Corrugated galvanized metal pipe (CGMP), n=0.024 to 0.027 (see
handbook of street drainage and highway construction products).
   (J)   Rational formula “C”.
      (1)   C residential=0.6 to 0.90;
      (2)   C commercial=0.75 to 0.90;
      (3)   C industrial=0.75 to 0.90; and
      (4)   See city standard graph for “C” values.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-8-5 SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Cover sheet. The cover sheet of the sanitary sewer construction plans
shall consist of:
      (1)   Name of plat;
      (2)   Drawing of the plat with sewage collection system and proposed
ground contours with two foot intervals;
      (3)   Designate all lines, manholes and cleanouts;
      (4)   The Sanitary Sewer District (SSD) number as assigned by the City
Engineer;
      (5)   Scale of one inch equals 100 feet as a minimum;
      (6)   Table of quantities for the project in accordance with the city
standard specifications; and
      (7)   Signature and seal of a registered professional engineer,
registered in the state.
   (B)   Plan and profile sheets.
      (1)   Profile scale of one inch equals 50 feet horizontal, and one inch
equals five feet vertical;
      (2)   Plan view scale, one inch equals 50 feet;
      (3)   North arrow and scale;
      (4)   Lot lines, lot numbers, block numbers and finished contours for
each lot; and
      (5)   SSD number on each sheet, assigned by the Director of Engineering
Services.
   (C)   Detail drawings.
      (1)   City standard drawings shall be used for all standard sanitary
sewer appurtenances.
      (2)   Detail drawings shall be required for all special structures.
   (D)   Design of sanitary sewer.
      (1)   All sanitary sewers shall conform to OSHO engineering bulletin no.
0587, Standards for Water Pollution Control Facilities, published by the
Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality, latest edition.
      (2)   All sanitary sewers shall conform to this code, as amended.
      (3)   All easements shall be shown on the plan view.
      (4)   Sanitary sewers shall be constructed in platted easements at the
rear of lots, not street rights-of-way, unless previously approved, due to the
topography, by the Director of Engineering Services.
      (5)   Where sanitary sewer main lines and service lines cross existing or
proposed streets and alleys, the engineer shall designate on his plans that the
trench shall be backfilled from right-of-way line to right-of-way line with
select material and compacted to ninety-five percent (95%) standard proctor
density, unless the crossing was accomplished by boring.
      (6)   Bench marks shall be on USGS datum and shown on the plans.
      (7)   All land lines shall be shown, dimensioned and locations referenced
thereto. This includes property lines, rights-of-way, easements and the like.
      (8)   No sanitary sewers shall be installed without dedication of rights-
of-way or appropriate easements.
      (9)   Drawings shall show all obstructions, existing and proposed, above
and below ground, located vertically and horizontally.
      (10)   Drawings shall show existing and proposed elevations. Street
crossings shall be made at right angles.
      (11)   (a)   Utility placement for underground utilities shall be as
follows:
 
Distance From Centerline
Utility   Center of Easement
Cable     18 inches south, or 18 inches west
Electric  5 feet 10 inches north, or 5 feet 10 inches east
Gas       8 feet 6 inches south, or 8 feet 6 inches west
Sewer     3 feet south, or 3 feet west
Telephone 18 inches north, or 18 inches east
 
         (b)   If these placements cannot be achieved, the engineer shall make
arrangements with each utility involved and present drawings to the Director of
Engineering Services of the arrangements thus made with the utilities.
         (c)   Sanitary sewers shall end at manholes. Lamp holes will not be
used in lieu of manholes, unless previous approval has been granted by the
Director of Engineering Services.
      (12)   Inverts of sanitary sewer manholes shall have a drop of one-tenth
foot from the inlet to the outlet.
      (13)   Drop connections to manholes shall be required where the flow line
of the inlet pipe does not match that of the downstream pipe. All drop
connections shall have a minimum drop of two feet, otherwise the lead shall
meet the flow line of the manhole.
      (14)   Manhole spacing shall be constructed at distances not greater than
400 feet for sewers 15 inches or less, and 500 feet for sewers 18 inches or
larger.
      (15)   Manholes shall be four feet deep minimum, and the top shall be
above the Q100 high water level. Exact manhole rim elevations shall be shown on
profile and staked in the field.
      (16)   Four-inch tees and risers shall be constructed and shown on the
plans to serve each lot in a subdivision.
      (17)   Telescoping sanitary sewer lines shall not be permitted, that is,
a main may not be constructed which is of larger diameter than the main
downstream.
      (18)   Bedding of sanitary sewers shall be designated on the plans by the
engineer for the appropriate trench conditions.
      (19)   Portland cement concrete encasement shall be required where the
depth of cut from the original ground elevation or proposed ground elevation to
the top of the pipe is less than two and five-tenths feet; the soil cover from
the top of subgrade of a roadway to the top of a VCP sewer pipe is less than
five feet. If the sewer pipe is constructed of ductile iron to a point ten feet
each side of the roadway, concrete encasement will not be required.
      (20)   If a water main is within two feet vertically or ten feet
horizontally of a sanitary sewer, Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality
requirements will govern.
      (21)   Sanitary sewer lines shall project a minimum of ten feet into the
property served. Easements shall extend a minimum of five feet further than the
sewer line.
      (22)   Cast iron/ductile iron service lines are required where service
lines cross under a paved street.
      (23)   Tees for each lot and risers, to within ten feet to 16 feet (in
four-foot increments) of the finished ground surface, shall be shown along with
the distance from the nearest manhole.
      (24)   As built plans with the exact location of tees and risers (plus
one foot) shall be submitted to the Director of Engineering Services before
final approval of construction and issuance of building permits.
   (E)   Cost estimate. A cost estimate, based on the city standard
specifications pay quantities, shall be submitted with the construction plans
for the sanitary sewer.
   (F)   Acceptance of improvements. Final cost estimates and as built plans
shall be submitted to the Director of Engineering Services with a letter
addressed to the City Council requesting approval of the projects and
acceptance for maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5) (Ord. 98-25, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 12-8-6 WATER DISTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Cover sheet. The cover sheet of the water distribution plans shall
consist of:
      (1)   Name of development of plat;
      (2)   Drawing of plat with pavement storm drainage structures and
sanitary sewers shown;
      (3)   The waterworks project (WWP) number as assigned by the Director of
Engineering Services;
      (4)   All lines, valves, fire hydrants and connections;
      (5)   Scale of one inch equals 100 feet as a minimum;
      (6)   Table of quantities for the project in accordance with the city
standard specifications; and
      (7)   Signature and seal of project in accordance with the city standard
specifications.
   (B)   Plan and profile sheets. Plan and profile sheets shall include:
      (1)   All conflicts between water lines and storm drainage, sanitary
sewers and other items covered by detailed plans and profile;
      (2)   Profile scale of one inch equals 50 feet horizontal, and one inch
equals five feet vertical;
      (3)   Plan view scale one inch equals 50 feet;
      (4)   North arrow and scale; and
      (5)   Lot lines, lot numbers, block numbers and location dimensions.
   (C)   Detail drawings.
      (1)   Detail drawings shall be required for all special structures.
      (2)   City standard drawings shall be used for all standard waterworks
improvements.
   (D)   Design. The design of waterworks improvements shall be as follows.
      (1)   All waterworks improvements shall conform to OSDH engineering
bulletin 0289, Standards for Public Water Supply Facilities, latest revision.
      (2)   All waterworks improvements shall conform to the City of Enid
Standard Construction Specifications, as amended.
      (3)   All water lines shall be placed in public right-of-way, unless
prior approval of the Director of Engineering Services is acquired for placing
water lines in easements.
      (4)   When water lines and service lines cross existing or proposed
streets or alleys, the trench shall be backfilled from right-of-way to right-
of-way with select materials and compacted to ninety-five percent (95%)
standard proctor density, unless the crossing was accomplished by boring.
      (5)   Bench marks shall be USGS datum and shown on the plans.
      (6)   All land lines shall be shown, dimensioned and location referenced
thereto.
      (7)   No water line shall be installed without dedication of right-of-
way.
      (8)   Drawings shall show all obstructions, existing and proposed, above
and below grade, located vertically and horizontally.
      (9)   Drawings shall show existing and proposed elevations at all fire
hydrant locations.
      (10)   Water lines shall be placed with a minimum of three feet of cover
and at three and one-half feet outside back of curb.
      (11)   Public water supply systems must be designed to connect the
existing main system at two locations to provide a looped system.
      (12)   Connection to existing water mains shall be by use of a tapping
sleeve and valve.
      (13)   Service lines shall be placed across existing or proposed roadways
to serve existing and future lots.
      (14)   Fire hydrants shall be placed in compliance with the 2006
International Fire Code, Appendix C, Table C105.1 and Appendix D. Fire hydrants
shall be located at property lines and intersections whenever possible.
      (15)   Whenever a line is dead ended, including cul-de-sacs, it shall
have a fire hydrant and the line will be connected to the nearest cross-main by
a two-inch PVC pipe to ensure circulation of water.
      (16)   All water line extensions shall be in accordance with the most
current master water plan. Water lines shall be sized at a minimum of 16 inches
for section line roads; ten inches for collection streets and eight inches for
local streets. Water lines shall be placed in the street right-of-way opposite
from the sanitary sewer lines, when both must be placed in the street right-of-
way. Fire flows will be determined by a fire flow analysis done in accordance
with the 2006 International Fire Code, Appendix B, “fire flow requirements for
buildings”.
   (E)   Cost estimate. A cost estimate, based on the city standard
specifications pay quantities, shail be submitted with construction plans for
water improvements.
   (F)   As built plans.
      (1)   As built plans with the exact location of all lines, valves,
service lines and fire hydrants shall be submitted to the Director of
Engineering Services before final approval of construction and issuance of a
building permit for lots serviced by the improvements.
      (2)   Final cost estimates for construction shall also be submitted with
the as builts.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. 2008-30, passed 11-4-2008)
§ 12-8-7 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   The maximum slope of a sidewalk is one to 20 or five percent (5%).
Sidewalks with slopes greater than one to 20 or five percent (5%) are
considered ramps and must comply with the most current accessibility guidelines
associated with the Americans with Disabilities Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et
seq., or regulations promulgated by the Department of Justice for ramps.
Exception: sidewalks that run parallel to a street may have a grade matching
the road grade.
   (B)   The surface of the sidewalk must be paved and slip resistant with no
changes in level greater than one-fourth inch.
   (C)   The plans must include curb ramps with detectable warnings, any
necessary signals or signage and for residential subdivisions it must include a
plan for each individual lot.
   (D)   The minimum clear width of sidewalks that run parallel to local
streets is 48 inches and along other roads the minimum clear width is 60
inches.
   (E)   Every sidewalk must provide a clear passing width of at least 60
inches by 60 inches located at intervals not to exceed 200 feet.
   (F)   Driveway crossings must not create a cross-slope for the sidewalk of
more than one and one-half percent (1½%).
   (G)   The minimum headroom is 80 inches.
   (H)   Gratings may not have openings greater than one-half inch and the long
dimension of the openings must run perpendicular to the direction of travel.
   (I)   Sidewalks that include directional signs must include braille with the
baseline of the tactile characters between 48 inches and 60 inches.
   (J)   Curb ramps should be designed consistent with the following:
      (1)   Provide a level maneuvering area at the top of the curb ramp;
      (2)   Clearly identify the boundary between the bottom of the curb ramp
and the street with a detectable warning that extends the full width of the
ramp and runs for 24 inches from the bottom of the ramp;
      (3)   Place the curb ramp within the marked crosswalk area;
      (4)   Design the ramp so that it does not require turning or maneuvering
on the ramp surface;
      (5)   Design the ramp with a maximum grade of seven and one-tenth percent
(7.1%);
      (6)   Design the ramp and gutter with a cross-slope of one and one-half
percent (1½%) maximum;
      (7)   Provide adequate drainage to prevent accumulation of water or
debris at the bottom of the ramp;
      (8)   Transitions from ramps to gutter and streets are flush and free of
level changes; and
      (9)   Align the curb ramps with the crosswalk so there is a straight path
of travel from the top of the ramp to the center of the roadway to the curb
ramp on the other side.
   (K)   Detectable warnings for curb ramps should consist of truncated domes
with:
      (1)   A bottom diameter of 23 millimeters (0.9 inch);
      (2)   A top diameter of ten millimeters (0.4 inch);
      (3)   A height of five millimeters (0.2 inch);
      (4)   A center to center spacing of 60 millimeters (2.35 inches); and
      (5)   A visual contrast from the adjacent pavement.
   (L)   When sidewalks are being constructed or modified along streets that
have already been constructed, these standards may need to be modified to
adjust to the particular layout of the land, property, street and utilities.
Care should be taken to ensure accessibility is enhanced and not diminished by
construction but strict compliance may not be feasible. In these circumstances
parallel curb ramps, blended transitions or other designs may be utilized.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-7) (Ord. 2014-37, passed 11-18-2014)
TITLE 13: FLOOD CONTROL
   Chapter
      
1.    FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
2.    RESERVED
      
3.    STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
13-1-1   Citation
   
13-1-2   Statutory authorization; findings of fact, purpose and methods
   
13-1-3   Definitions
   
13-1-4   General provisions
   
13-1-5   Administration
   
13-1-6   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
13-1-7   City floodplain management fee schedule
   
13-1-8   Penalties for noncompliance
§ 13-1-1 CITATION.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-1) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 13-1-2 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Oklahoma Legislature has, in 82 O.S. §§
1601 through 1618, as amended, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt ordinances designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the City ordains the following, to become effective immediately.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other property because they are inadequately elevated,
flood proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and are generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve public or private uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-2) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 13-1-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not
limited to, detached garages and storage sheds.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within the
City subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given
year.
   BFE. Base flood elevation.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or one percent (1%) chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT (FLOODPLAIN ENCROACHMENT PERMIT). A permit issued by the
City’s Floodplain Administrator which authorizes development in a special flood
hazard area in accordance with this chapter, excluding maintenance of features
that existed prior to the effective date of the City’s initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) or before March 15, 1979.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building in Zones AE, A and X, to have the
top of the elevated floor adequately anchored so as not to impair the
structural integrity of the building during a flood up to the magnitude of the
base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A and X, ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a
building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FlRM or before March 15, 1979. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as
“existing structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of the facilities, for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum; the installation or utilities, the construction of streets and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads), has been completed before
August 4, 1972.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, to include the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map of the City on which FEMA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the City.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by FEMA for the City
which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood and
the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland waters, creeks and tributaries; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas in a
“special flood hazard” and the extent of the depths of associated flooding.
Such a system typically includes dams, reservoirs, stormwater detention
facilities, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of Engineering for the City, or his
designee, who is a person accredited by the OWRB to administer and implement
laws, ordinances and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN BOARD. The City of Enid Commission.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, flood control projects and
floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations)
and other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See definition of “flood” or “flooding”.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, utilities, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A FLOODWAY is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
13-1-4 (B). A FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading
and unloading of passengers and shipbuilding and ship repair facilities, but
does not include long term storage or related manufacturing facilities. It also
covers facilities and utilities such as water intakes and water discharge
systems.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for an individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
Historic District or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered Historic District;
      (3)   Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including a
basement). However, an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the City’s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM, March 15, 1979, and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures. For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the City
Commission and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures, or
March 15, 1979.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the City Commission, or
March 15, 1979.
   OWRB. The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SFHA. Area of special flood hazard.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et
seq., includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit
was issued; provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; the installation of streets or walkways; excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
the installation on the property of accessory structures. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before “start of
construction” of the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred
“substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the Floodplain Board (the City Commission) to
a person from the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result
in unnecessary hardship. A VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full
requirements, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to mean sea level, as
defined by the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum,
where specified), of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the
floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-3) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 13-1-4 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the City.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard (SFHA) identified by FEMA in a scientific and engineering
report entitled, The Flood Insurance Study for Garfield County, Oklahoma and
Incorporated Areas dated June 7, 2019 with the accompanying flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) are adopted and effective on June 7, 2019 by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (C)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Before
starting construction of a development or improvement in the SFHA, a
development permit is required.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the City or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-4) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 13-1-5 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The City designates the
Director of Engineering, or his designee, shall hold the position of Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of national flood insurance program regulations in
44 C.F.R. pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1618, as amended;
      (2)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter;
      (4)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required;
      (5)   Make the necessary interpretation, where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions);
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to FEMA;
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (8)   Shall require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the
pre-construction base flood elevation as well as other data as required in
order to administer the provisions of §
13-1-6. Upon completion of the development, a post FEMA Elevation Certificate
will be required before a final Certificate of Occupancy can issue;
      (9)   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE as
delineated on the County FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the City;
      (10)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the City, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement;
      (11)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the Floodplain Board, (the City Commission); and
      (12)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Permit procedures.
      (1)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on the furnished forms and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed
structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location of
the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard, “SFHA”.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be flood proofed; and
         (c)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential flood proofed structure shall meet the flood
proofing criteria of §
13-1-6(B)(2); and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (c)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (d)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (e)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (f)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         (g)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         (h)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (i)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         (j)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator or the Floodplain Board, as
applicable, may approve certain development in Zones A or AE delineated on the
County FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by
more than one foot, provided that the applicant for the development permit in
that case first complies with 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   The Floodplain Board may grant variances for uses which do not
satisfy the requirements of the Oklahoma Floodplain Management Act, 82 O.S. §§
1601 et seq., as amended, or this chapter, if the applicant for the variance
presents adequate proof that compliance with this chapter will result in an
arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or
advantage to the people and satisfies the pertinent provisions of this
subsection (D). However, no variance shall be granted where the effect of the
variance will be to permit the continuance of a condition which unreasonably
creates flooding hazards.
         (b)   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
         (c)   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
20 years pursuant to 82 O.S. § 1615(C). Any change in use or design of the
development will render the variance void.
         (d)   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the
Floodplain Board, accompanied by a filing fee of $25.
         (e)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection (C)(2) above and
provisions of this subsection (D) have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
         (f)   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the
base flood elevation will need to include within the variance paperwork a
signed and notarized statement to the City Clerk that they are fully aware
that:
            1.   The cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than
the base flood elevation; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
         (g)   At such time as the Floodplain Board deems the petition ready
for notification to the public, the City Clerk shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
         (h)   The Floodplain Board shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this subsection
(D). The Floodplain Board shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the
equities involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to
the public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
         (i)   Variances shall only issue upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances;
and
            4.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         (j)   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this subsection (D)
and the intent of this chapter, the Floodplain Board may attach such conditions
to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in §
13-1-2(C).
         (k)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the Floodplain Board shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within 15 days after issuance of the
variance.
      (2)   Special provisions.
         (a)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation
or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
         (b)   Variances shall not issue within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (c)   Variances may issue for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
         (d)   Variances may issue for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided that:
            1.   The criteria of subsections (D)(1)(e), (D)(1)(i), (D)(2)(b)
and (D)(2)(c) above are met; and
            2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-5) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 13-1-6 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards (SFHA) the
following provisions are required for all new construction and substantial
improvements:
      (1)   All   new construction or substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      (7)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following provisions are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated at a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
subsection (B) is satisfied. This does not apply for ramps, stairs or other
access improvements.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at a minimum
of one foot above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below and one foot above the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review
structural design, specifications and plans for the construction, and shall
certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection (B). The
Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all flood proofing
certifications that includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which each structure has been flood proofed.
      (3)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (4)   Manufactured homes. Require that all manufactured homes to be
placed anywhere within the City within Zones A and AE on the Garfield County
FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage
and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated one foot above the BFE. For the
purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces. The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to
state law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the
manufactured home.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A and AE on the County FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
13-1-5(C), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured
homes” in subsection (B)(4) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
      (6)   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within Zones A and AE on the County FIRM shall comply with the following:
         (a)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
         (b)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited
storage;
         (c)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking or restroom use;
         (d)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must
be elevated one foot above the BFE;
         (e)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (f)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
         (g)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
         (h)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
         (i)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
         (j)   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
      (7)   Fences. All fences (other than maintenance) within a regulated
floodplain will require a development permit, following guidelines set by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Standards for subdivisions.
      (1)   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located
in Zones A and AE which is 50 or more lots or greater than five acres shall
generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
      (2)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      (3)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
   (D)   Floodways. The following provisions shall apply to floodways.
      (1)   Encroachments, including, but not limited to, fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development are prohibited
within the adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels within the City during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If subsection (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
      (3)   The City may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-6) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 13-1-7 CITY FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City establishes the following fee schedule not to exceed $500 for any
one service:
   (A)   Notice of intent fee: $25 maximum;
   (B)   Floodplain development permit application review: $100;
   (C)   Floodplain development permit fee: $25; and
   (D)   Inspection fee: $25 per inspection.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-7) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 13-1-8 PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development
without the elevation certificate or other certifications required in this
chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided. Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500 for
each violation, or incarcerated for not more than 60 days, and in addition
shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Floodplain Board of the City or its City Attorney from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-8) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 4-16-2019)
CHAPTER 2: RESERVED
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   This chapter has been repealed by Ord. 2012-08, passed 5-15-2012.
CHAPTER 3: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
13-3-1   Statutory authorization
   
13-3-2   Findings of fact
   
13-3-3   Statement of purpose
   
13-3-4   Definitions
   
13-3-5   Duties of Director
   
13-3-6   Stormwater Drainage Fund
   
13-3-7   Master drainage plan
   
13-3-8   Subdivision plat, site plan and building permit approval
   
13-3-9   Stormwater mitigation
   
13-3-10   Development fee requirements; credits
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater utility service charges and development fees, see §§
2-6E-9 and
2-6E-10 , and
Title 8, Chapter 5
§ 13-3-1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Oklahoma Legislature has, in 82 O.S. §§ 1601 through 1618, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City does hereby adopt this stormwater
management chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-1) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-2 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Because of its physical terrain and geographical location, the City is
particularly subject to damage from stormwaters, which, from time to time,
overflow from existing watercourses and drainage facilities.
   (C)   The presently existing stormwater drainage facilities of the City
require continuous operation, maintenance, renewal and replacement.
   (D)   A comprehensive approach to managing stormwater runoff is required to
address existing and future needs.
   (E)   The cost of operating and maintaining all stormwater drainage systems,
and the financing of existing and future necessary repairs, replacement,
improvements and extensions thereof, should, to the extent practicable, be
allocated in relationship to the benefit enjoyed and services received
therefrom.
   (F)   Requiring the construction of regional master drainage plan detention
sites, mitigation of stormwater runoff through on site detention and payment of
stormwater development fees and stormwater utility service charges are the most
equitable methods of implementing a comprehensive stormwater management
program.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-2) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-3 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
welfare by providing for operating, constructing, equipping, maintaining,
acquiring and owning within the City a stormwater drainage system.
   (B)   The establishment of a stormwater drainage system will:
      (1)   Minimize flood and storm losses and inconveniences from
uncontrolled stormwater runoff in the City;
      (2)   Assure that the movement of emergency vehicles is not prohibited
nor inhibited during storm or flood periods;
      (3)   Preserve the City’s watercourses, improve and preserve purity of
water, minimize water quality degradation and otherwise facilitate urban water
resource management techniques, including both the reduction of pollution and
the enhancement of the urban environment;
      (4)   Establish an overall plan and master plan for stormwater and flood
management and its implementation, including, without limitation, a coordinated
program of creating upstream ponding or temporary detention of stormwaters;
      (5)   Establish stormwater and flood management utility to coordinate,
design, construct, manage, operate and maintain the stormwater and flood
management system;
      (6)   Establish reasonable stormwater utility and flood management fees
based on the use of stormwater drainage system and flood drainage facilities;
and
      (7)   Establish reasonable stormwater and flood management fees based on
the impact or future impact of development on the stormwater drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-3) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-4 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHANNEL CAPACITY. The capacity of a specific type of channel as defined in §
12-7-2 (B)(2)(b).
   DEPARTMENT. The stormwater management department as established by the City
Manager, or in absence thereof, the Engineering Department of the City.
   DETENTION OR RETENTION FACILITIES. Facilities designed to hold stormwater
for a short period and then to release it to a watercourse or to hold
stormwater for a sufficient length of time to provide for it to be consumed by
evaporation, infiltration into the soil or other natural means.
   DEVELOPED REAL ESTATE (DEVELOPED PROPERTY). Real property altered from its
natural state by the addition to, or construction of, any impervious surface
such that the hydrology of the property is affected.
   DEVELOPER. The person(s) who improves, subdivides land or alters real
property from its natural state by the addition to, or construction of, any
impervious surface such that the hydrology of the property is affected.
   DIRECTOR. The duly appointed director of the Stormwater Management
Department of the City and/or his designated representative.
   DRAINAGE BASIN PLAN. The plan adopted by the City for managing surface and
stormwater facilities and features within an individual drainage basin.
   IMPACTED CHANNEL. The channel from a development to the main drainage
channel.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property designed and used principally for
residential single-family, duplex or multi-family purposes and developed
according to, and meeting the bulk and area requirements for, residential
single-family, duplex or apartment zoned property as set forth in the City’s
zoning code at the time of development of such property.
   STORMWATER DEVELOPMENT FEE. The fee levied within the boundaries of the City
against proposed developing real estate to cover development’s cost share of
the stormwater management program.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any facility, structure, improvement,
development, equipment, property or interest therein, or other structural or
nonstructural element made, constructed, used or acquired for the purpose of
collecting, containing, storing, conveying and controlling stormwater wherever
located, including, but not limited to, storm sewers, conduits, natural and
manmade channels, pipes, culverts and detention ponds whether public or
private.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. The overall strategy and framework for the
stormwater management activities of the City.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. That portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
stormwater drainage system.
   SUBDIVISION. Land that is separated into tracts, parcels or lots.
   TRACT. A lot, or parcel of land. Properties that are not abutting or
adjoining or are separated by any street, alley or other property shall be
considered separate TRACTS.
   UNDEVELOPED REAL ESTATE (UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY). Real estate unaltered by the
construction or addition of any impervious surface, which would change the
hydrology of the property from its natural state.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-4) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-5 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall exercise all lawful powers necessary and
appropriate to administer the city stormwater management program.
   (B)   The Director shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Develop and administer all phases of a comprehensive program of
stormwater management, including planning, designing, establishing, acquiring,
constructing, developing, installing, administering, maintaining, operating,
improving, repairing, replacing and reconstructing the stormwater drainage
system of the City;
      (2)   Administer the accounting, budgeting, recordkeeping and support
personnel necessary for the efficient operation of the stormwater management
program;
      (3)   Administer the regulations contained in this chapter;
      (4)   Perform studies and analyses required to establish or modify the
stormwater management program;
      (5)   Provide for public information and awareness that will improve
management and reduce hazards to life and property;
      (6)   Coordinate enforcement of the regulations contained in this chapter
with other city departments; and
      (7)   Seek the cooperation of counties and municipalities within the area
in minimizing the contribution of all storm drainage systems to flooding and,
in particular, cooperate with other affected political jurisdictions in
preparing and implementing master drainage plans.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-5) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-6 STORMWATER DRAINAGE FUND.
   A separate account or accounts shall be maintained for the purpose of
identifying and controlling all revenues to stormwater drainage services. The
costs of administrating, data collection, planning, maintaining, operating and
improving drainage services and facilities shall be paid from these revenues.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-6) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-7 MASTER DRAINAGE PLAN.
   (A)   Plan developed. The Director shall develop a master drainage plan for
the City, based on engineering studies, that indicates the location of all
drainage facilities in the City, including those facilities that currently
exist and those determined to be needed and that are intended to be constructed
in the future. The plan may also show any other information that the Director
deems desirable.
   (B)   Purpose of plan. The purpose of the master drainage plan prescribed by
this section is to identify and propose a system to alleviate present and
future drainage and flooding problems in the City by means of presenting in an
orderly fashion the general data and information essential in understanding the
relationship between rainfall and storm runoff. The master drainage plan serves
as the official designation of drainage facilities, drainageways and basins.
These may be altered, from time to time, to conform to existing conditions or
new information.
   (C)   Cost estimate. The Director may undertake supplementary studies to
determine the estimated cost of constructing the drainage facilities shown on
the master drainage plan, including the expense of any necessary land
acquisition.
   (D)   Individual basin plans. The citywide master drainage plan may include
individual basin plans such as the 1987 master drainage plan northwest area
drainage basin that was adopted by the City Council.
   (E)   Substantial modifications. Substantial modifications to the master
drainage plan shall be adopted by City Commission action.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-7) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-8 SUBDIVISION PLAT, SITE PLAN AND BUILDING PERMIT APPROVAL.
   All subdivision plats, replats, site plans and industrial building permits
shall be approved by the Community Development Department. The review and
approval of any plat, replat, site plan or industrial building permit by the
Community Development Department shall require the submittal and acceptance of
drainage plans in accordance with the city subdivision regulations, standard
construction specifications and details and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-8) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-9 STORMWATER MITIGATION.
   (A)   Mitigation required. All development that involves the filing of a
plat, replat, site plan or industrial building permit must mitigate the impact
of that development’s stormwater runoff by performing work on a regional master
drainage plan detention site located within the same basin as the development,
or pay the development fee as outlined in §
13-3-10.
   (B)   Amount of work. The amount of work to be done at the detention site is
the amount necessary to mitigate the entire stormwater runoff caused by the
proposed development.
   (C)   Responsibility to mitigate. This mitigation work does not relieve the
developer from the responsibility to mitigate that development’s stormwater
impact from the development’s site to the main drainage channel of the
stormwater master plan (the impacted channel). If the flow is above the
impacted channel’s capacity anywhere from the development to the main drainage
channel, the proposed development must detain the stormwater on site, or
relieve the impact through mitigation in another manner.
   (D)   Development fee. Where work cannot be done to stormwater master plan
detention sites within the development basin, the developer must pay the
development fee as outlined in §
13-3-10.
   (E)   Developments outside limits of master plan. The drainage study for a
proposed development that is not located within a master drainage plan shall
include a plan to mitigate stormwater impact on the properties located
downstream between the proposed development and the main drainage channel.
Where on site detention is proposed to mitigate the impact, the developer may
make application to amend the master plan to add the proposed on site detention
to the plan as a regional detention site.
      (1)   Application to add on site detention to the master plan shall
include a detailed revised hydrology and hydraulic analysis of the master plan
study showing that the proposed detention will provide adequate protection,
offset certain improvements and not increase the operational maintenance cost,
or otherwise increase the public burden.
      (2)   Credits under §
13-3-10 may issue if the regional detention site provides capacity in excess of
what is required to be offset by the proposed development.
      (3)   If the on site detention is not to serve as a regional detention
site, it does not alleviate the requirement to pay the fee under §
13-3-10.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-10) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 13-3-10 DEVELOPMENT FEE REQUIREMENTS; CREDITS.
   (A)   Development fee. Where work is not done to a regional stormwater
detention site, or the amount of work does not offset the impact, the developer
shall be required to pay a stormwater development fee at the time of the
subdivision plat, replat, site plan or industrial building permit approval as
provided for in §
2-6E-10.
   (B)   Obtaining credits. Credits can be obtained by developers to offset
stormwater development fees for a particular tract of land by providing
necessary property for master plan improvements. Credits are calculated in
dollars based on the following.
      (1)   Dollar value of credits for land provided shall be based on the
appraised value, less the cost of appraisal. Only land that provides for
drainage improvements compatible with the master drainage plan may be provided
for credits. The dedication of property or the granting of easements normally
provided as part of the development process cannot be used for credit.
      (2)   Dollar value of improvements provided shall be mutually agreed upon
and shall be based on the beneficial share of a complete project based on the
master drainage plan construction cost. Interim and incidental work such as
erosion protection, engineering, staking, safety measures and access roads
shall not be calculated as a beneficial share. Where detailed construction
plans are not available, an interim construction plan shall be provided by the
developer.
      (3)   Where engineering services are proposed for credit, the dollar
value shall be mutually agreed upon based on a detailed proposal of the
engineering services and conditioned upon acceptance of the construction plan.
   (C)   Issuance of credits. Credits shall issue by letter upon the completion
of the work and/or acceptance of the land by the City Commission.
      (1)   Letter agreements shall establish the value of the credit. Credits
shall be tied to a specific basin but may be transferred to a third party with
notice to the City.
      (2)   Use of credits may be made at the time of approval of a plat,
replat, lot split or building permit. Credits shall be set out on a per acre
basis in the letter agreement.
      (3)   Application to use credit shall include a copy of the letter
agreement and, if applicable, the credit transfer.
      (4)   Any credit amount applied against the stormwater development fee
shall be deducted from the amount of the fee set out for the referenced tract
or tracts.
      (5)   At any time the remaining credit for any tract shall fall below a
value of $500, no further credits can be applied for under the referenced
letter agreement, and the tracking of the use shall be discontinued.
   (D)   Application of credits. A developer may apply credits only to the
development of land within the drainage basin in which the land or work was
provided.
   (E)   Special credits. Special credits shall be established by letter
agreement for the following completed projects:
      (1)   Willow Road detention facility completed in 1984; and
      (2)   Grass lined channel on Bobsfarm Detention referenced by figure 7-
4 of the 1987 master drainage plan.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-10) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cites Code Section
O.S. Cites                  Code Section
3 O.S. 105(2)               7-8-2
3 O.S. 110                  7-8-2
3A O.S. 401 et seq.         5-5D-2
3A O.S. 402(20)             5-5D-2
7 O.S. 12                   6-9-8
10 O.S. 401 et seq.         Title 3, Ch. 15
10A O.S. 2-8-222            5-5H-2
11 O.S. 1-102               9-11-2
11 O.S. 1-102, subsection 8 4-5-3
11 O.S. 8-113               1-3-1
                            Title 9, Ch. 1 ;
11 O.S. 14-107              9-4-1 ;
                            9-5-2 ;
                            9-9-1
11 O.S. 20-101              1-6-1
                            Charter
11 O.S. 22-101.1            B.9.5 ; Charter
                            C.9.5
11 O.S. 22-106              3-11-2
11 O.S. 22-107              3-11-2
11 O.S. 22-110              5-5G-5
                            4-5-1 ;
11 O.S. 22-111              4-5-3 ;
                            4-5-5 ;
                            4-5-6
11 O.S. 22-112.1            9-11-1
11 O.S. 22-112(A)—(C)     9-11-2
11 O.S. 22-112(C)           9-11-1
11 O.S. 22-113              Title 9, Ch. 1
11 O.S. 22-115              Title 5, Ch. 7
11 O.S. 22-117B             6-1-11
11 O.S. 22-117.1            6-1-4
11 O.S. 22-119              7-5-1
11 O.S. 22-121              Title 4, Ch. 4
11 O.S. 27-102              5-1-1
11 O.S. 27-106              5-1-4
11 O.S. 27-123              5-1-15
11 O.S. 29-101 et seq.      Title 5, Ch. 3
11 O.S. 29-105              5-3-2
11 O.S. 29-106              5-3-2
11 O.S. 29-107              5-3-3
11 O.S. 29-108              5-3-3
11 O.S. 34-101 et seq.      Title 5, Ch. 2
11 O.S. 36-106              7-7-1
11 O.S. 36-116              7-5-2
11 O.S. 36-118              7-5-2
11 O.S. 37-101 et seq.      Title 8, Ch. 2
11 O.S. 37-201 et seq.      Title 8, Ch. 3
11 O.S. 42-101 et seq.      7-1-4
11 O.S. 43-101—43-109     10-2-1 ;
                            11-3-1
11 O.S. 43-101 et seq.      11-1-1 ;
                            11-15-1
11 O.S. 43-101.1            11-10D-1
11 O.S. 43-102              Title 9, Ch. 1
11 O.S. 43-104              11-15-4
11 O.S. 44-107.1            11-13-7
11 O.S. 44-110              11-3-10
11 O.S. 50-101 et seq.      Title 5, Ch. 2
12 O.S. 951                 8-3H-1 ;
                            9-9-2
14A O.S. 1-101 et seq.      3-12-1
19 O.S. 866.1—866.34      10-1-1
19 O.S. 866.13              12-3-1
19 O.S. 1608                3-11-3
21 O.S. 22                  5-5E-1
21 O.S. 263                 5-5F-5
21 O.S. 264                 5-5F-5
21 O.S. 436                 5-5F-4
21 O.S. 437                 5-5F-4
21 O.S. 441                 5-5F-4
21 O.S. 491                 5-5F-1 ;
                            5-5F-2
21 O.S. 521                 5-5F-4
21 O.S. 540                 5-5F-1 ;
                            5-5F-2
21 O.S. 540A                6-2-7
21 O.S. 643                 5-5G-6
21 O.S. 1272 et seq.        5-5G-1
21 O.S. 1289.13A            5-5G-6
21 O.S. 1290.1 et seq.      5-5G-6
21 O.S. 1290.2              5-5G-1
21 O.S. 1290.8              5-5G-6
21 O.S. 1311                5-5E-2
21 O.S. 1311 et seq.        5-5E-1
21 O.S. 1321.1—1321.10    5-5E-2
21 O.S. 1362                5-5E-1
21 O.S. 1365                5-5E-1
21 O.S. 1533                5-5F-5
22 O.S. 34.3                1-12-15
22 O.S. 983                 5-1-24
22 O.S. 1342                5-5C-5
                            Charter
                            D.1.18 ;
                            1-8-4 ;
25 O.S. 301 et seq.         7-11-8 ;
                            7-13-4 ;
                            7-14-3 ;
                            10-2-3 ;
                            11-3-3
25 O.S. 1101 et seq.        Title 1, Ch. 12
25 O.S. 1702                Title 1, Ch. 12
25 O.S. 1705                1-12-13
27A O.S. 2-5-101—2-5-118  9-1-2
29 O.S. 1-101 et seq.       7-3-5
34 O.S. 1                   1-6-5
34 O.S. 2                   1-6-5
34 O.S. 3                   1-6-6
34 O.S. 6                   1-6-7
34 O.S. 24                  1-6-6
37A O.S.                    5-5H-2 ;
                            6-7-13
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.      5-5H-2
37A O.S. 4-101              5-5H-2
37A O.S. 6-101              6-7-13
37A O.S. 6-101(a)(8)        5-5H-2
47 O.S.                     6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-102               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-103               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-104               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-105               6-1-2 ;
                            6-7-12
47 O.S. 1-106               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-111               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-114               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-114A              6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-121               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-122               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-125               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-126               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-133.2             6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-133.3             6-1-2 ;
                            6-13-10
47 O.S. 1-134               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-134.1             6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-135               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-136               6-1-2 ;
                            6-5-1
47 O.S. 1-139               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-142               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-143               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-147               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-148               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-149               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-150               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-151               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-154               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-156               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-158(a)            6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-158(b)            6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-159               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-160               6-1-2 ;
                            6-7-12
47 O.S. 1-163               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-167               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-169               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-170               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-171               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-174               6-7-12
47 O.S. 1-175               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-177               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-178               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-179               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-182               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-185               6-1-2
47 O.S. 1-186               6-1-2
47 O.S. 2-117               6-1-2
47 O.S. 6-101 et seq.       6-1-5
47 O.S. 7-600 et seq.       6-1-4
47 O.S. 7-601 et seq.       6-1-4
47 O.S. 8-104               6-1-4
47 O.S. 10-101              6-1-6
47 O.S. 10-103—10-107     6-1-6
47 O.S. 10-111              6-1-6
47 O.S. 10-112              6-1-6
47 O.S. 11-101              6-2-5
47 O.S. 11-102              6-1-3
47 O.S. 11-103              6-2-6
47 O.S. 11-103—11-107     6-2-5
47 O.S. 11-201(a)           6-3-4
47 O.S. 11-201(b)           6-3-5
47 O.S. 11-202              6-3-6
47 O.S. 11-203              6-3-7
47 O.S. 11-204              6-3-8
47 O.S. 11-204.1            6-3-9
47 O.S. 11-205              6-3-7
47 O.S. 11-206              6-3-10
47 O.S. 11-207              6-3-11
47 O.S. 11-301              6-4-1
47 O.S. 11-302              6-4-2
47 O.S. 11-303              6-4-3
47 O.S. 11-304              6-4-4
47 O.S. 11-305              6-4-3
47 O.S. 11-306              6-4-5
47 O.S. 11-308              6-4-7
47 O.S. 11-309              6-4-8
47 O.S. 11-310              6-4-9
47 O.S. 11-311              6-4-10
47 O.S. 11-312              6-4-11
47 O.S. 11-313              6-4-12
47 O.S. 11-314              6-5-2
47 O.S. 11-401—11-405     6-5-2
47 O.S. 11-501              6-9-1
47 O.S. 11-502              6-9-2
47 O.S. 11-503              6-9-3
47 O.S. 11-504              6-9-4
47 O.S. 11-505              6-9-5
47 O.S. 11-506              6-9-6
47 O.S. 11-507              6-9-7
47 O.S. 11-601              6-5-3
47 O.S. 11-602              6-5-3
47 O.S. 11-603              6-5-4
47 O.S. 11-604—11-606     6-5-3
47 O.S. 11-701—11-705     6-5-5
47 O.S. 11-705(A)           6-5-5
47 O.S. 11-705.1            6-5-5
47 O.S. 11-801              6-5-1
47 O.S. 11-804—11-806     6-5-1
47 O.S. 11-805              6-11-2 ;
                            6-13-6
47 O.S. 11-901              6-5-7
47 O.S. 11-901(b)—11-901(d6-5-8
47 O.S. 11-1001             6-6-8
47 O.S. 11-1002             6-6-2
47 O.S. 11-1002(b)          6-12-4
47 O.S. 11-1003             6-6-3
47 O.S. 11-1004             6-6-4
47 O.S. 11-1005             6-6-6
47 O.S. 11-1006             6-6-9
47 O.S. 11-1007             6-6-7
47 O.S. 11-1101             6-7-1
47 O.S. 11-1102             6-7-2
47 O.S. 11-1103             6-11-1
47 O.S. 11-1104             6-7-3
47 O.S. 11-1105             6-7-4
47 O.S. 11-1107             6-7-5
47 O.S. 11-1108             6-7-6
47 O.S. 11-1109             6-7-6
47 O.S. 11-1110             6-7-7
47 O.S. 11-1112             6-1-7
47 O.S. 11-1113             6-1-7
                            6-1-2 ;
47 O.S. 11-1116             6-13-2 ;
                            6-13-3
47 O.S. 11-1201             6-10-1
47 O.S. 11-1202             6-10-2 ;
                            6-13-11
47 O.S. 11-1203             6-10-6 ;
                            6-13-7
47 O.S. 11-1205             6-10-9 ;
                            6-13-7
47 O.S. 11-1206             6-10-12
47 O.S. 11-1301             6-1-12
47 O.S. 11-1302             6-1-12
47 O.S. 12-101              6-8-1
47 O.S. Ch. 12, Art. II     6-10-14
47 O.S. 12-203              6-11-3
47 O.S. 12-218              6-2-5 ;
                            6-5-2
47 O.S. 12-227              6-11-3
47 O.S. 12-228              6-11-3
47 O.S. 12-401              6-11-3
47 O.S. 12-402              6-11-3
47 O.S. 12-405              7-1-2
47 O.S. 12-417              6-1-7
47 O.S. 12-422              6-8-5
47 O.S. 12-602—12-606     6-11-3
47 O.S. 12-608              6-11-3
47 O.S. 12-609              6-11-3 ;
                            6-11-4
47 O.S. 12-701              6-10-3
47 O.S. 12-702—12-704     6-10-14
47 O.S. 12-707—12-709     6-10-14
47 O.S. 14-105              6-8-3
47 O.S. 15-102(a)(2)        6-2-1
47 O.S. 15-106              6-3-3
47 O.S. 15-112              6-6-7
47 O.S. 16-102              6-1-8
47 O.S. 790                 5-1-10 ;
                            5-1-13
47 O.S. 1101 et seq.        6-13-5
47 O.S. 1112.2              6-1-13
47 O.S. 1112.3              6-1-15
47 O.S. 1134                6-1-7
47 O.S. 1135.1B(3)          6-6-7
47 O.S. 1151(E)             6-13-3
49 O.S. 12-422(H)           6-8-5
50 O.S. 1                   4-4-1
50 O.S. 1-16                4-5-1
                            Charter
51 O.S. 24A.1 et seq.       D.1.18 ;
                            1-8-4
51 O.S. 24A.5(3)            2-6A-1
                            1-15-3 ;
51 O.S. 151 et seq.         7-9H-13 ;
                            7-9I-13
51 O.S. 159C                2-3-2
                            9-1-1 ;
                            9-1-4 ;
                            9-2-1 ;
59 O.S. 1000.23             9-4-1 ;
                            9-6-1 ;
                            9-7-1 ;
                            9-8-1 ;
                            9-10-1
                            2-6F-1 ;
                            2-6F-3 ;
59 O.S. 1000.25             2-6F-6 ;
                            2-6F-8 ;
                            2-6F-11
59 O.S. 1501 et seq.        Title 3, Ch. 12
59 O.S. 1502                3-12-1
59 O.S. 1800.1              9-10-2
59 O.S. 1800.1 et seq.      3-7-3
                            2-2-4 ;
61 O.S. 101 et seq.         2-2-8 ;
                            10-5-2 ; Charter
                            D.1.19
62 O.S. 361—365.6         2-3-2
62 O.S. 430.1B (1 and 4)    2-2-1
62 O.S. 435                 2-3-2
63 O.S. 1-209               4-1-2
63 O.S. 1-229.12 et seq.    5-5H-5
63 O.S. 1-229.13            5-5H-5
63 O.S. 1-1522              5-5H-4
63 O.S. 1-1900.1 et seq.    Title 3, Ch. 15
63 O.S. 1-2501 et seq.      Title 3, Ch. 8
63 O.S. 1-2515              3-8-12
63 O.S. 2-101               5-5H-1
63 O.S. 427.1 et seq.       5-5H-1
63 O.S. 427.11              5-5H-1
63 O.S. 427.2(36)           11-1-7
63 O.S. 683.1               5-4-4
63 O.S. 683.11              5-4-2 ;
                            5-4-4
68 O.S.                     2-5A-19
68 O.S. 101 et seq.         2-5A-4
                            2-5A-13 ;
68 O.S. 201 et seq.         2-5A-14 ;
                            2-5B-18
                            2-5A-16 ;
68 O.S. 205                 2-5B-17 ;
                            2-5C-12
68 O.S. 217                 2-5A-13 ;
                            2-5C-9
68 O.S. 220                 2-5A-13 ;
                            2-5C-9
68 O.S. 227                 2-5A-14 ;
                            2-5C-10
68 O.S. 683.2               5-4-5
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.        2-5A-3
68 O.S. 1352                2-5A-3
68 O.S. 1355 et seq.        2-5A-6
68 O.S. 1361 et seq.        2-5A-11
68 O.S. 1365                2-5A-7 ;
                            2-5A-8
68 O.S. 1401 et seq.        2-5C-1
68 O.S. 1408                2-5C-7
68 O.S. 2601 through 2605   2-5D-1
68 O.S. 2701                2-5A-5 ;
                            2-5B-4
68 O.S. 3019                2-5A-19
69 O.S. 1301—1331         7-1B-5
69 O.S. 1301 et seq.        7-1B-3
69 O.S. 1331                7-1B-2
69 O.S. 1401—1403         7-1B-5
70 O.S. 9-119               6-5-5
70 O.S. 10-105              5-6C-2
71 O.S. 5864—5873         Charter
                            A.8.25
                            13-1-2 ;
82 O.S. 1601—1618         13-1-5 ;
                            13-3-1
82 O.S. 1601 et seq.        13-1-5
82 O.S. 1615(C)             13-1-5
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
Ord. No.  Passed Date Code Section
80-4      - -         2-5A-5
82-14     - -         2-5A-5
87-12     - -         2-6E-8
98-26     - -         2-5A-5
603       - -         Charter
                      A.1.2
4021      - -         2-5A-5
2002-06   - -         1-6-1
2002-23   - -         2-5A-5
                      Charter
                      A.4.13 ,
-         9-27-1909   A.5.4 ,
                      A.5.5 ,
                      A.8.25
-         5-9-1930    Charter
                      B.10.5
                      Charter
-         4-19-1937   C.9.5 ,
                      C.9.6
                      11-1-1 —
                      11-1-6 ;
                      11-2-1 ;
                      11-2-4 ;
                      11-3-1 ;
                      11-3-3 —
                      11-3-5 ;
                      11-3-7 —
                      11-3-9 ;
                      11-3-11 ;
                      11-4-1 —
                      11-4-3 ;
                      11-5-1 ;
                      11-5-3 —
                      11-5-5 ;
                      11-6A-1 ;
                      11-6A-3 ;
                      11-6B-1 ;
                      11-6B-3 ;
                      11-6C-1 ;
                      11-6C-2 ;
                      11-6C-4 ;
                      11-6C-7 ;
                      11-6D-1 ;
                      11-6D-3 ;
                      11-6E-1 ;
                      11-6E-3 ;
                      11-6F-1 ;
                      11-6F-3 —
                      11-6F-5 ;
                      11-6G-1 ;
                      11-6G-2 ;
                      11-6G-4 —
                      11-6G-9 ;
                      11-6H-1 ;
80-29     12-16-1980  11-6H-3 ;
                      11-6H-4 ;
                      11-7A-1 —
                      11-7A-4 ;
                      11-7B-1 —
                      11-7B-4 ;
                      11-7C-1 —
                      11-7C-5 ;
                      11-7D-1 —
                      11-7D-4 ;
                      11-7E-1 —
                      11-7E-4 ;
                      11-8A-1 —
                      11-8A-3 ;
                      11-8A-6 ;
                      11-8B-1 ;
                      11-8C-1 ;
                      11-9-1 ;
                      11-9-3 ;
                      11-9-4 ;
                      11-10A-1 —
                      11-10A-5 ;
                      11-10A-8 ;
                      11-10A-10 —
                      11-10A-18 ;
                      11-10C-1 —
                      11-10C-5 ;
                      11-11-1 —
                      11-11-3 ;
                      11-11-5 ;
                      11-11-6 ;
                      11-11-8 ;
                      11-11-12 —
                      11-11-14 ;
                      11-14-1 —
                      11-14-7 ;
                      11-14-9
82-14     4-8-1982    2-5A-5
83-7      4-5-1983    Charter
                      D.2.4
85-6      4-2-1985    Charter
                      B.7.7
85-8      4-2-1985    Charter
                      A.5.6
85-19     6-18-1985   2-5A-5
87-16     4-16-1987   2-5A-5
89-9      2-7-1989    Charter
                      D.1.18
89-11     2-7-1989    Charter
                      C.7.4
89-12     2-7-1989    Charter
                      C.5.4
89-13     2-7-1989    Charter
                      B.7.4
89-14     2-7-1989    Charter
                      B.5.4
89-15     2-7-1989    Charter
                      B.2.1
90-30     8-7-1990    2-5A-5
                      Charter
91-02     1-15-1991   D.2.4 ,
                      D.2.5
91-04     1-15-1991   2-5A-5
                      Charter
91-05     1-15-1991   A.8.6 ,
                      D.1.19
91-06     1-15-1991   Charter
                      D.2.9
                      Charter
91-07     2-5-1991    D.1.13 ,
                      D.1.20
91-08     2-5-1991    Charter
                      A.8.19
                      12-1-1 —
                      12-1-5 ;
                      12-1-7 ;
                      12-1-9 ;
                      12-3-1 —
                      12-3-9 ;
                      12-4-2 ;
                      12-4-3 ;
                      12-5-2 —
                      12-5-4 ;
98-25     9-1-1998    12-6-1 ;
                      12-6-3 ;
                      12-6-4 ;
                      12-6-6 ;
                      12-7-1 ;
                      12-7-3 ;
                      12-7-4 ;
                      12-8-1 ;
                      12-8-2 ;
                      12-8-4 ;
                      12-8-5
98-26     9-1-1998    2-5A-5
99-38     11-8-1999   2-5A-5
2000-23   8-15-2000   2-5A-5
                      9-3-1 ;
2001-14   6-5-2001    9-5-2 ;
                      9-5-3
2001-30   11-6-2001   4-3-9
2002-05   3-12-2002   7-8-1 —
                      7-8-12
                      11-5-3 ;
2002-09   4-16-2002   11-6D-3 ;
                      11-6E-3
2002-17   7-2-2002    2-5B-4
2002-23   9-17-2002   8-1-6
                      2-2-2 —
2002-46   11-5-2002   2-2-4;
                      2-2-6—
                      2-2-8
                      Charter
2002-50   12-17-2002  D.1.4 ,
                      D.1.5 ,
                      D.1.6
2002-51   12-17-2002  Charter
                      A.7.7
2002-52   12-17-2002  Charter
                      B.3.1
2002-53   12-17-2002  Charter
                      B.1.1
2002-54   12-17-2002  Charter
                      C.2.1
2002-55   12-17-2002  Charter
                      C.8.2
2002-56   12-17-2002  Charter
                      A.5.11
2002-57   12-17-2002  Charter
                      A.8.19
2002-58   12-17-2002  Charter
                      A.3.38
2003-06   3-18-2003   7-1-4
2003-15   9-16-2003   3-14-3
2003-16   9-16-2003   2-6D-3
                      7-7-1 ;
                      7-7-3 —
2003-24   12-16-2003  7-7-5 ;
                      7-7A-1 ;
                      7-7A-3 —
                      7-7A-6
                      11-10D-2 —
04-01     1-6-2004    11-10D-10 ;
                      11-10D-14
                      11-4-1 ;
                      11-10E-1 —
04-02     1-6-2004    11-10E-10 ;
                      11-15-1 —
                      11-15-4
                      9-1A-1 ;
04-04     1-6-2004    9-1A-2 ;
                      9-1A-4 —
                      9-1A-11
2004-12   4-6-2004    11-8B-5 ;
                      11-8B-6
2004-13   4-6-2004    11-8C-4 ;
                      11-8C-5
2004-19   5-18-2004   3-16-1 —
                      3-16-4
                      2-5D-5 ;
                      6-10-1 ;
                      6-10-3 ;
2004-28   9-7-2004    6-10-9 ;
                      6-11-1 —
                      6-11-6 ;
                      6-13-1 —
                      6-13-4
                      2-6F-2 ;
2004-32   10-5-2004   2-6F-6 ;
                      2-6F-8
2004-33   10-5-2004   9-3-1 ;
                      9-5-2
2004-42   11-16-2004  7-3-7
                      Charter
2004-44   12-21-2004  D.2.2 ,
                      D.2.3
2004-45   12-21-2004  2-1-5
2004-47   12-21-2004  2-6B-5
2005-22.5 9-6-2005    8-6-1 —
                      8-6-6
2005-26   10-4-2005   2-6E-11
2005-27   10-4-2005   2-6B-7
2005-28   10-4-2005   2-6A-7
2005-30   10-4-2005   2-5D-5 ; 5-6A-4
2005-31   10-4-2005   2-5D-5
2005-34   11-1-2005   6-9-8
2006-05   3-21-2006   2-6A-1
2006-22   9-19-2006   2-6E-2 ;
                      8-2-2
2006-27   12-5-2006   11-10D-1 ;
                      11-10D-11
                      4-6-1 ;
2007-05   3-20-2007   4-6-3 —
                      4-6-7
2007-13   7-17-2007   7-7A-2
2007-26   9-18-2007   4-6-2
2007-28   9-18-2007   2-2-1 ;
                      2-2-5
2008-04   2-21-2008   11-3-2
2008-07   2-21-2008   7-4-1
2008-12   4-15-2008   9-3-1
2008-14   7-15-2008   7-10-1 —
                      7-10-4
2008-15   7-15-2008   8-1-15
2008-17   8-19-2008   11-10D-12 ;
                      11-10D-13
                      2-6F-5 ;
2008-20   9-4-2008    2-6F-7 ;
                      2-6F-10
2008-21   9-4-2008    9-1A-3
2008-30   11-4-2008   12-8-6
2009-01   1-6-2009    13-3-1 —
                      13-3-10
2009-06   2-3-2009    2-3-2
                      12-1-6 ;
                      12-2-1 ;
                      12-2-2 ;
                      12-4-1 ;
2009-09   4-7-2009    12-4-4 ;
                      12-5-1 ;
                      12-6-5 ;
                      12-7-2 ;
                      12-8-2 ;
                      12-8-3
2009-19   8-4-2009    11-7D-2
2009-25   10-6-2009   8-2-9
2009-26   11-3-2009   11-14-5
                      8-4-1 ;
                      8-4-4 —
2009-28   12-1-2009   8-4-6 ;
                      8-4-8 ;
                      8-4-9
2010-05   4-20-2010   2-6F-1 ;
                      2-6F-11
                      2-6E-9 ;
                      2-6E-12 ;
2010-10   9-21-2010   8-1-7 ;
                      8-2-8 ;
                      8-2-11
2010-12   11-16-2010  8-4-4
2011-03   3-1-2011    7-3-5 ;
                      7-3-10
2011-10   7-19-2011   5-1-24
2012-05   2-7-2012    11-12-1 —
                      11-12-4
2012-06   4-17-2012   6-6-17 ;
                      6-6-18
2012-08   5-15-2012   Title 13, Ch. 2
                      4-4-4 ;
2012-10   6-5-2012    4-4-5 ;
                      9-11-1 ;
                      9-11-2
2012-13   6-5-2012    2-6E-4 ;
                      8-4-13
2012-19   9-6-2012    6-5-10
2012-23   12-4-2012   9-14-1 —
                      9-14-18
                      11-1-7 ;
2013-4    2-5-2013    11-8A-5 ;
                      11-8B-3
2013-5    2-5-2013    2-6B-18
2013-18   3-5-2013    2-6C-3 ;
                      7-10-5
2013-19   3-5-2013    8-2-13
2013-20   3-5-2013    1-8-3
2013-22   3-19-2013   2-6B-2 ;
                      2-6B-19
2013-23   3-19-2013   7-2A-1
2013-25   4-2-2013    6-7-14
                      2-5B-2 ;
2013-28   5-6-2013    2-5B-5 ;
                      2-5B-20
2013-35   8-6-2013    Title 7, Ch. 6
                      2-6B-9 ;
2013-36   8-6-2013    3-11-2 —
                      3-11-14
                      11-11-4 ;
                      11-11-7 ;
2013-38   9-17-2013   11-11-9 ;
                      11-11-10 ;
                      11-11-15
2013-40   10-1-2013   7-8-13
                      11-8A-4 ;
2013-41   10-15-2013  11-8B-2 ;
                      11-8C-2
2013-42   11-19-2013  7-3-6
2013-48   11-19-2013  5-5E-1 ;
                      5-5E-2
2013-49   11-19-2013  5-5F-1 —
                      5-5F-5
2013-51   11-19-2013  5-5H-4
2013-60   12-17-2013  6-8-1 —
                      6-8-5
2013-61   12-17-2013  6-6-7
                      2-6B-10 ;
                      3-12-1 —
2013-63   12-17-2013  3-12-4 ;
                      3-12-6 ;
                      3-12-7 ;
                      Title 3, Ch. 13
2014-02   1-7-2014    1-13-1 —
                      1-13-12
2014-03   1-7-2014    9-15-1
2014-06   1-23-2014   6-2-6 ;
                      6-2-7
                      5-5G-3 ;
2014-10   4-6-2014    5-5G-5 ;
                      5-5G-6
2014-14   5-6-2014    2-6D-2
                      6-1-5 ;
                      6-1-6 ;
2014-16   5-6-2014    6-1-8 —
                      6-1-12 ;
                      6-1-14
2014-17   5-6-2014    6-4-1 —
                      6-4-12
                      6-5-1 —
2014-18   5-6-2014    6-5-5 ;
                      6-5-7
2014-19   5-6-2014    6-7-1 —
                      6-7-12
                      6-3-4 ;
2014-20   5-6-2014    6-3-6 ;
                      6-3-10 ;
                      6-3-11
2014-21   5-6-2014    5-1-18 —
                      5-1-20
2014-25   6-3-2014    2-6E-10
2014-29   8-19-2014   8-7-1 —
                      8-7-14
                      2-6E-3 ;
2014-35   9-16-2014   2-6E-6 ;
                      8-1-13 ;
                      8-2-15
2014-37   11-18-2014  12-6-2 ;
                      12-8-7
2015-03   1-6-2015    5-2-3
                      2-6B-4 ;
                      3-8-1 ;
                      3-8-2 ;
                      3-8-4 —
                      3-8-12 ;
2015-06   2-3-2015    3-8A-1 —
                      3-8A-8 ;
                      3-8B-1 —
                      3-8B-6 ;
                      3-8C-1 —
                      3-8C-7
2015-08   2-19-2015   2-6E-5
2015-09   3-3-2015    3-8-3
                      3-3-1 ;
                      3-3-4 —
2015-13   4-7-2015    3-3-11 ;
                      Title 3, Ch. 4 ;
                      Title 3, Ch. 5 ;
                      3-11-1
                      2-6B-16 ;
2015-14   4-7-2015    3-10-8 ;
                      11-8B-4 ;
                      11-8C-3
2015-17   4-14-2015   11-10A-9
2015-20   5-4-2015    6-12-4
                      2-6F-13 ;
2015-28   9-1-2015    3-17-1 —
                      3-17-4
                      11-6A-2 ;
                      11-6A-4 ;
                      11-6A-5 ;
                      11-6B-2 ;
                      11-6B-4 ;
                      11-6B-5 ;
                      11-6C-3 ;
                      11-6C-5 ;
                      11-6C-6 ;
                      11-6D-2 ;
2015-30   9-15-2015   11-6D-4 ;
                      11-6D-5 ;
                      11-6E-4 ;
                      11-6E-5 ;
                      11-6F-2 ;
                      11-6F-6 ;
                      11-6G-3 ;
                      11-6H-2 ;
                      11-16-1 ;
                      11-16-3 —
                      11-16-5
                      11-17-1 ;
                      11-17-3 ;
2015-32   10-20-2015  11-17-5 ;
                      11-17-8 —
                      11-17-10
2015-33   10-20-2015  11-14-8
2015-36   11-3-2015   6-10-14
2015-37   11-3-2015   4-5-1
2015-39   11-3-2015   4-4-1
2015-41   11-17-2015  2-6B-8
                      9-1-1 ;
                      9-1-2 ;
                      9-1-4 ;
                      9-1-5 ;
                      9-4-1 ;
                      9-4-2 ;
2015-42   11-17-2015  9-6-1 ;
                      9-6-2 ;
                      9-7-1 ;
                      9-7-2 ;
                      9-8-1 ;
                      9-8-2 ;
                      9-9-1
2015-44   12-1-2015   6-5-8
2015-45   12-1-2015   6-1-7
2015-46   12-1-2015   6-1-4
2016-03   2-2-2016    2-6F-14 ;
                      7-1-6
2016-10   5-17-2016   11-2-3
2016-14   6-7-2016    11-13-6 ;
                      11-13-14
                      1-15-1 —
2016-15   7-7-2016    1-15-8 ;
                      1-15-10 —
                      1-15-13
2016-23   9-20-2016   2-6C-4
                      2-5A-5 ;
2016-24   9-20-2016   2-5C-16 ;
                      2-6B-1
2016-28   12-6-2016   9-2-1 ;
                      9-2-2
2017-02   2-23-2017   11-17-2 ;
                      11-17-4 ; 11-16-6; 11-16-7
2017-05   4-18-2017   2-6C-9
2017-17   9-7-2017    3-3-12 ;
                      3-3-13
2017-22   10-3-2017   7-11-1 —
                      7-11-13
2017-24   11-7-2017   7-13-1 —
                      7-13-6
2017-25   11-21-2017  2-6C-2 ;
                      2-6E-8
2017-26   12-5-2017   5-5H-3
                      1-6-8 ;
2017-27   12-5-2017   5-5D-1 ;
                      5-5E-3 —
                      5-5E-7
2017-29   12-19-2017  5-1-4
2018-01   1-4-2018    5-5G-2
2018-02   1-4-2018    5-6B-4 ;
                      5-6C-3
                      5-5C-4 ;
2018-03   1-4-2018    5-5C-6 ;
                      5-5C-7
                      9-13-2 ;
                      9-13-6 —
2018-04   1-4-2018    9-13-7 ;
                      9-13-25 ;
                      9-13-35
2018-06   1-18-2018   2-6C-7 ;
                      2-6C-8
                      3-7-1 ;
                      3-7-2 ;
                      3-7-4 —
                      3-7-6 ;
                      3-7-8 —
2018-08   3-6-2018    3-7-13 ;
                      3-7-15 ;
                      5-5F-6 ;
                      5-5F-7 ;
                      9-10-1 ;
                      9-10-2
2018-09   3-20-2018   5-5C-1 ;
                      5-5C-5
2018-10   3-20-2018   9-1-3
2018-11   3-20-2018   11-3-10 ;
                      11-13-15
2018-14   5-22-2018   5-4-10
2018-15   5-22-2018   5-5E-8
2018-18   6-5-2018    6-10-8
2018-19   6-5-2018    6-1-2 ;
                      6-13-5
2018-22   8-7-2018    2-6B-3 ;
                      3-2-1
                      1-15-9 ;
2018-23   8-21-2018   5-5H-2 ;
                      6-7-13
                      4-3-2 ;
                      4-4-2 ;
                      4-5-8 ;
2018-25   9-6-2018    4-6-8 ;
                      7-7-2 ;
                      8-4-7 ;
                      9-9-2
2018-26   9-6-2018    5-5C-2
2018-30   11-6-2018   2-6C-1
2018-31   11-20-2018  5-5A-3
2018-32   11-20-2018  5-1-10
                      11-13-1 —
                      11-13-3 ;
2019-02   3-5-2019    11-13-7 ;
                      11-13-9 ;
                      11-13-10
2019-03   3-5-2019    11-2-2 ;
                      12-1-8
2019-04   3-5-2019    2-1-6 ;
                      2-1-7
2019-12   3-6-2019    11-1-7 ;
                      11-3-6
2019-05   4-16-2019   13-1-1 —
                      13-1-8
2019-06   4-16-2019   3-3-2 ;
                      3-3-3
                      11-1-7 ;
2019-13   5-6-2019    11-5-2 ;
                      11-6E-2 ;
                      11-9-2
2019-15   7-2-2019    6-1-13
2019-16   8-20-2019   5-5H-1
2019-19   9-13-2019   5-5H-1
2019-22   9-24-2019   11-7D-2
2019-24   10-1-2019   2-6B-20
2020-02   2-20-2020   6-1-15
2020-03   2-20-2020   5-5H-2
2020-04   3-17-2020   11-2-1
2020-05   5-19-2020   5-6C-1 —
                      5-6C-3
2020-06   5-19-2020   6-5-5
2020-07   6-2-2020    2-6C-4
2020-08   6-2-2020    8-4-6
                      11-1-7 ;
2020-10   7-7-2020    11-5-2 ;
                      11-7B-2 ;
                      11-7D-2
2020-11   7-7-2020    11-2-1
2020-12   7-7-2020    11-2-1
2020-13   7-7-2020    1-5-6 ;
                      1-10-3
2020-14   7-21-2020   11-16-2 ;
                      11-16-3
2020-15   8-4-2020    11-2-1
2021-01   1-5-2021    11-9-4 ;
                      11-10A-9
                      6-1-2 ;
2021-02   3-16-2021   6-13-6 —
                      6-13-12
2021-07   6-15-2021   9-11-1
2021-08   6-15-2021   5-5H-2
2021-09   7-8-2021    11-2-1
2021-10   8-3-2021    11-2-1
2021-11   8-17-2021   7-9H-1 —
                      7-9H-16
2021-12   9-21-2021   1-6-8 ;
                      5-5E-3
2021-13   10-5-2021   11-2-1
2021-14   10-5-2021   6-1-2 ;
                      6-10-3
                      1-6-3 ;
2021-16   10-19-2021  1-6-5 ;
                      1-6-8
2021-17   11-2-2021   11-2-1
                      2-6D-2 ;
                      5-7-1 —
2021-18   11-2-2021   5-7-8 ;
                      5-7-10 —
                      5-7-26
2021-19   11-2-2021   5-5H-4
2021-20   11-2-2021   5-1-3
2021-21   11-16-2021  2-6C-1
2021-22   12-7-2021   11-2-1
2022-01   1-20-2022   3-8B-7;
                      Title 3, Ch. 9
2022-02   2-1-2022    11-2-1
2022-05   4-5-2022    11-2-1
2022-06   4-5-2022    11-2-1
2022-07   4-5-2022    11-2-1
2022-08   4-5-2022    11-13-1 —
                      11-13-15
2022-09   4-19-2022   9-1-1 —
                      9-1-5
2022-10   4-19-2022   9-6-1 ;
                      9-6-2
                      2-6F-11 ;
                      3-3-13 ;
2022-11   4-19-2022   Title 3, Ch. 6 ;
                      9-10-1 ;
                      9-10-2
                      9-7-1 ;
2022-12   4-19-2022   9-7-2 ;
                      9-8-1 ;
                      9-8-2
2022-13   4-19-2022   9-4-1 ;
                      9-4-2
2022-14   6-7-2022    11-2-1
                      2-6F-1 ;
2022-15   6-7-2022    2-6F-2 ;
                      2-6F-6 ;
                      2-6F-8
2022-18   7-19-2022   5-7-27
                      5-5H-5 —
2022-19   8-16-2022   5-5H-7 ;
                      Title 5, Ch. 6
2022-20   8-16-2022   5-1-8 ;
                      6-10-1
2022-21   9-8-2022    11-2-1
                      2-2-1 ;
2022-23   10-4-2022   2-2-5 ;
                      2-2-7
2022-24   11-15-2022  2-6C-1
2023-01   2-7-2023    7-14-1 —
                      7-14-3
                      7-11-3 ;
2023-04   4-18-2023   7-11-4 ;
                      7-11-8
2023-05   4-18-2023   7-2A-4
2023-09   7-6-2023    11-1-7 ;
                      11-10C-5
                      11-1-7 ;
                      11-5-2 ;
2023-10   7-6-2023    11-7B-2 ;
                      11-7D-2 ;
                      11-8A-5 ;
                      11-8B-3
2023-11   7-18-2023   1-8-4
2023-12   9-19-2023   7-9I-1 —
                      7-9I-16
2024-01   2-6-2024    2-6C-4
2024-02   2-6-2024    5-7-16
2024-08   7-16-2024   9-2-1
2024-09   7-16-2024   9-4-1
2024-11   8-6-2024    9-12-2 ;
                      11-1-7
2024-12   8-6-2024    11-10F-1 —
                      11-10F-7
2024-13   8-6-2024    11-10G-1 —
                      11-10G-7
2024-14   8-6-2024    11-10H-1 —
                      11-10H-10
2024-18   11-19-2024  2-6E-8
2025-01   1-7-2025    1-6-1
2025-04   3-18-2025   2-7-1  -
                      2-7-4
                     
 
 
